                            Volume 2



STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA
            AND DIGESTS OF MEASURES


                                1969

             Constitution of 1879 as Amended

          Measures Submitted to Vote of Electors,
           General Election, November 5, 1968

General Laws, Amendments to the Codes, Resolutions,
          and Constitutional Amendments


              Passed by the California   Legislature   at the


     1968 First Extraordinary Session
                                and the

               1969 Regular Session




                               Compiled by
                        GEORGE H. MURPHY
                            Legislative Counsel




72—1954
                       1969
Ch. 1175]                     REGULAK SESSION                   2273

                          CHAPTER 1175
An act creating the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency, and
  prescribing its boundaries, organisation, operation, manage-
  ment, financing and other powers and duties, and declaring
  the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. This act is designated, and may be cited and
referred to as, the "Bighorn Mountains Water Agency L a w . "
   SEC. 2. The Bighorn Mountains Water Agency is hereby
created, organized and incorporated and shall be managed as
herein expressly provided and may exercise the powers herein
expressly granted or necessarily implied, and may include
contiguous or noncontiguous parcels of both unincorporated
and incorporated territory, other than territory included in
any public district having identity of purpose or substantial
identity of purpose, without the prior consent of such public
district, evidenced by a resolution duly adopted by the govern-
ing board thereof, and shall include all territory lying within
the following described boundaries:
  All that real property situate in the County of San Bernar-
dino, State of California, more particularly described as fol-
lows:
   (a) Township 3 North, Range 4 East, San Bernardino Base
and. Meridian:
   Section 7
   Section 8
   Section 11
   South \ Section 2
   Southwest \ Section 12
   Section 13, excluding the North \ of the Northeast \
   Section 14
   Section 15
   Section 16
   Section 17
   East \ Section 18
   Northeast I, Northeast J, Section 20
   North i Section 21
   North | Section 22
   (b) Township 3 North, Range 5 East. San Bernardino Base
and Meridian:
   South -§, South -J, Southwest \, Section 4
   Section 8
   Northwest \ and South -§, Section 9
   Southwest \ Section 10
   Section 13
   South \ Section 14
2274              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQfa ^ 7 5

   Northwest J and South •§, Section 15
   Section 16
   Section 17
   Section 18
   Section 21
   Section 22
   Section 23
   Northwest \, Northwest \, Section 24
   West i Section 26
   Section 27
   Southeast J Section 33
   Section 34
   Northwest \ and South %, Section 35
    (e) Township 2 North, Bange 5 East, San Bernardino Base
 and Meridian:
   Section 2
   Section 3
   Section 10
   Section 11
   Section 12
   (d) Township 2 North, Eange 6 East, San Bernardino Base
 and Meridian:
   Section 3
   Section 4
   Section 5
   Section 6
   Section 7
   Section 8
   Section 9
   Section 10
   Section 14
   Section 16
   Section 18
   West £, Section 19
   Section 22
   Section 30
   North i, Northwest \, Section 31
   SEC. 5. The Board of Directors of the Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency organized under this act shall consist of five
members. The Board of Supervisors of San Bernardino County
shall appoint the first board of directors, each of whom shall
be a resident of the agency, and shall hold office until his suc-
cessor is elected. All successors of the first board shall be
elected or chosen at the time and in the manner provided in
the Uniform District Election Law.
   SEC. 7. No person shall vote at any Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency election held under the provisions of this act
who is not a voter within the meaning of the Elections Code.
For the purpose of registering voters who shall be entitled to
vote at Bighorn Mountains Water Agency elections, the
county clerk or registrar of voters is authorized, in any county
                    1969
Ch. 1175]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2275

in which there is the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency to
indicate upon the affidavit of registration whether the voter
is a voter of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency.
   In case the boundary line of the Bighorn Mountains Water
Agency crosses the boundary line of a county election precinct
only those voters within such Bighorn Mountains Water
Agency and within such precinct who are registered as being
voters within the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency shall be
permitted to vote, and for that purpose the county clerk or
registrar of voters is hereby empowered to provide two sets of
ballots within such precincts, one containing the names of
candidates for office in said Bighorn Mountains Water Agency,
and the other not containing such names, and it shall be the
duty of the election officers in such precincts to furnish only
those persons registered as voters within such Bighorn Moun-
tains Water Agency with the ballots upon which are printed
the names of the candidates for office in the Bighorn Moun-
tains Water Agency.
   SEC. 8. The provisions of the Elections Code so far as they
may be applicable shall govern all general Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency elections and all special Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency elections, except as in this act or otherwise
provided.
   SEC. 9. The Board of Directors of Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency shall call and canvass all elections involving
matters of initiative, recall and referendum and shall call
all other elections which it is authorized to canvass.
   SEC. 10. Every incumbent of an elective office, whether
elected by popular vote for a full term, or chosen by the board
of directors to fill a vacancy, is subject to recall by the voters
of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency organized under the
provisions of this act in accordance with the recall provisions
of the Elections Code of the state with reference to cities.
   SEC. 11. The board of directors shall be the governing
body of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency. I t shall hold
its first meeting as soon as possible after the appointment and
certification of the first board of directors; it shall choose one
of its members president, and shall thereupon provide for
the time and place of holding its meetings and the manner in
which its special meetings may be called. All legislative ses-
sions of the board of directors whether regular or special shall
be open to the public. A majority of the board of directors
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At
its first meeting in the month of J a n u a r y of each even-num-
bered year, the board of directors shall choose one of its mem-
bers president.
   SEC. 12. The board of directors shall act only by ordi-
nance, resolution, or motion. On all ordinances the roll shall
be called and the ayes and noes recorded in the journal of the
proceedings of the board of directors. Eesolutions and orders
may be adopted by voice vote, but on demand of any member
2276               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Qh. 3J75

 the roll shall be called. No ordinance, motion, or resolution
 shall be passed or become effective without the affirmative
 vote of a majority of the members of the board. The enacting
 clause of all ordinances passed by the board shall be: " B e it
 ordained by the Board of Directors of the Bighorn Mountains
 Water Agency as follows:'' Each of the members of the board
 of directors shall receive for each attendance at the meetings
 of the board thirty dollars ($30). No directors, however, shall
 receive pay for more than three meetings in any calendar
 month. A director shall be compensated for a meeting of the
 board if at the time of the holding of such meeting he is on
 other business of the district, at the request of the board. Any
 vacancy in the board of directors shall be filled by a majority
 of the remaining directors, the person so chosen shall be a
 resident of and otherwise qualified to be a director of the
 agency and shall hold office for the remainder of the unex-
 pired term.
    SEC. 13. No informality in any proceeding not substan-
 tially affecting adversely the legal rights of any citizen, shall
 be held to invalidate the legal existence of said Bighorn Moun-
 tains Water Agency and all proceedings in respect thereto
 shall be held to be valid and in every respect legal and in-
 contestable.
    SEC. 14. The board of directors shall at its first meeting,
 or as soon thereafter as practicable, appoint by a majority vote
 a vice president, secretary, treasurer, attorney, chief engineer,
 general manager and auditor, define their duties and fix their
compensation, and each shall serve at the pleasure of the board,
and may employ such additional assistants and employees as
they may deem necessary to efficiently maintain and operate
said agency. Said board may consolidate the office of secretary
and treasurer, and the offices of chief engineer and general
manager.
   SEC. 15. The Bighorn Mountains Water Agency incorpo-
rated as herein provided, shall have the power:
   1. To have perpetual succession;
   2. To sue and be sued, except as otherwise provided herein
or by law, in all actions and proceedings in all courts and
tribunals of competent jurisdiction;
   3. To adopt a seal and alter it at pleasure;
   4. To take by grant, purchase, gift, devise, or lease, hold,
use, enjoy, and to lease or dispose of real and personal prop-
erty of every kind, within or without the Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency;
   5. To acquire, or contract to acquire, waterworks or a water-
works system, waters, water rights, lands, rights and privileges
and construct, maintain and operate conduits, pipelines, reser-
voirs, works, machinery and other property useful or necessary
to store, convey, supply or otherwise make use of water for a
waterworks plant or system for the benefit of the agency, and
to complete, extend, add to, repair or otherwise improve any
                    1969
Ch. 11751                  R E G U L A R SESSION           2277

waterworks or waterworks system acquired by it as herein
authorized.
   6. To construct, maintain, improve and operate public rec-
reational facilities appurtenant to any water reservoir oper-
ated or contracted to be operated by the Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency, and to provide by ordinance regulations bind-
ing upon all persons to govern the use of such facilities in-
cluding regulations imposing reasonable charges for the use
thereof. Violation of any such regulation shall be a misde-
meanor.
   7. To lease of and from any person, firm or public or private
corporation, or public agency, with the privilege of purchas-
ing or otherwise, all or any part of water storage, transporta-
tion or distribution facilities, existing waterworks or a water-
works system, and to carry on and conduct waterworks or a
waterworks system; also to sell water under the control of the
agency to cities, and to other public corporations and public
agencies within the agency, and to the inhabitants of such
cities and of other territory within the agency, and to persons,
corporations, and other private agencies within the agency
for use within said agency without any preference; and it may,
whenever the board shall find that there is a surplus of water
above that which may be required by such consumers within
said agency, sell or otherwise dispose of such surplus water to
any persons, firms, public or private corporations or public
agencies or other consumers;
   8. The agency may supply and deliver water to property
not subject to agency taxes at special rates, terms, and condi-
tions as are determined by the board for such service.
   9. To have and exercise the right of eminent domain and in
the manner provided by law for the condemnation of private
property for public use, to take any property necessary to
supply the agency or any portion thereof with water, whether
such property be already devoted to the same use or otherwise,
and may condemn any existing waterworks or system, or any
portion thereof, or any waters or water rights owned by any
person, firm or private corporation. I n proceedings relative to
the exercise of such right, the agency shall have all of the
rights, powers and privileges of a city; provided, that in lieu
of compensation and damages for the taking or damaging of
any public utility facility which must be replaced by the public
utility to provide service to the public equivalent to that pro-
vided by the facility taken or damaged, the agency shall pay
to the public utility owning such facility its actual cost in-
curred to replace in kind the facility so taken or damaged,
less proper deductions for depreciation, together with its
actual cost incurred to rearrange or rehabilitate the facilities
of such public utility not taken or damaged but required to
be rearranged or rehabilitated by reason of such taking or
damaging.
2278               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQ^   U75

    10. To issue bonds, borrow money and incur indebtedness
 as authorized by law or in this act provided; also to refund
  (by the issuance of the same obligations following the same
 procedure) or retire any indebtedness or lien that may exist
 against the agency or property thereof; also to issue warrants
 to pay the formation expenses of the agency, which warrants
 may bear interest at a rate not exceeding 6 percent per annum
 from the date of issue until funds are available to pay the
 warrants, and which formation expenses may include fees of
 attorneys and others employed to conduct the formation pro-
 ceedings.
    11. To issue negotiable promissory notes bearing interest
 at a rate not exceeding 7 percent per annum; provided, how-
 ever, that said notes shall be general obligations of the agency
 payable from revenues and taxes in the same manner as bonds
 of said agency; and provided further that the maturity shall
 not be later than five years from the date thereof and that
 the total aggregate amount of such notes outstanding at any
 one time may be at least equal to seventy-five thousand dollars
  ($75,000) in the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency but shall
 not otherwise exceed the lesser of either one million five hun-
 dred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) or 3 percent of the assessed
 valuation of the taxable property in the Bighorn Mountains
 Water Agency, or, if said assessed valuation is not obtainable,
 3 percent of the county auditor's estimate of the assessed valua-
 tion of the taxable property in the agency evidenced by his
 certificate. Promissory notes issued pursuant to Section 51 may
 be disregarded in computing the aggregate amount of notes
 that may be issued pursuant to this subdivision;
    12. To cause taxes to be levied, in the manner hereinafter
 provided, for the purpose of paying any obligation of the
 agency, including its formation expenses and any warrants
 issued therefor;
    13. To restrict the use of agency water during any emer-
gency caused by drought, or other threatened or existing water
shortage, and to prohibit the wastage of agency water or the
use of agency water during such periods, for any purpose other
than household uses or such other restricted uses as may be
determined to be necessary by the agency; to prohibit the use
of such water during such periods for specific uses which the
agency may from time to time find to be nonessential;
    14. To prescribe and define by ordinance, the restrictions,
prohibitions and exclusions referred to in subdivision 13
hereof. Every ordinance relating to the matters referred to
in this subdivision shall be in full force and effect forthwith
upon adoption, but shall be published pursuant to Section
6061 of the Government Code in full in a newspaper of gen-
eral circulation, printed, published and circulated in the
agency within 10 days after adoption, or if there be no such
newspaper it shall be posted within said time in three public
places within the agency;
                     1969
Ch. 1175]                   REGULAR SESSION                     2279

    15. To make contracts, to employ labor, and do all acts
necessary for the full exercise of the foregoing powers;
    16. In case of condemnation proceedings the board shall
proceed in the name of the agency;
    17. To provide by ordinance of its board of directors for
the pensioning of officers or employees and the creation of a
special fund for the purpose of paying such pensions, and the
accumulation of contributions to said fund from the revenues
of the agency, the wages of officers or employees, voluntary
contributions, gifts, donations or any source of revenue not
inconsistent with the general powers of the board, and to con-
tract with any insurance corporation or any other insurance
carrier for the maintenance of a service covering the pension
of such officers or employees, and to provide in such ordinance
for the terms and conditions under which such pensions shall
be awarded, and for the time and extent of service of officers
or employees before such pensions shall be available to them;
    18. To acquire, control, distribute, store, spread, sink, treat,
purify, reclaim, recapture, and salvage any water, including
sewage and storm waters, for the beneficial use or uses and
protection of the agency or its inhabitants or the owners of
rights to water therein.
    19. Subject to the limitations in subdivision 9 of this sec-
tion, to join with one or more public agencies, private cor-
porations or other persons for the purpose of carrying out
any of the powers of the agency, and for that purpose to con-
tract with such other public agencies or private corporations
 or persons for the purpose of financing such acquisitions, con-
structions and operations. Such contracts may provide for
contributions to be made by each party thereto and for the
 division and apportionment of the expenses of such acquisi-
tions and operations, and the division and apportionment of
 the benefits, the services and products therefrom, and may
 provide for any agency to effect such acquisitions and to carry
 on such operations, and shall provide in the powers and
 methods of procedure for such agency the method by which
 such agency may contract. Such contracts with other public
 agencies or private corporations or persons may contain such
 other and further covenants and agreements as may be neces-
 sary or convenient to accomplish the purposes thereof. The
 term "public agency," as used in this subdivision, shall be
 deemed to mean and include the United States of America or
 any department or agency thereof, the State of California or
 any department or agency thereof, a county, city, public cor-
  poration, or other public district of this state. The term " p r i -
 vate corporation,'' as used in this subdivision, shall be deemed
 to mean and include any private corporation organized under
  the laws of the United States of America or of this or any
  other state thereof. Contracts mentioned herein include those
  made with the United States, under the Federal Eeclamation
  Act of June 17, 1902, and all acts amendatory thereof or sup-
2280               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQJj._ H 7 5

  plementary thereto or any other act of Congress heretofore
  or hereafter enacted permitting cooperation. Any such con-
  tract with the United States of America or any department
  or agency thereof, or with any private corporation organized
  under the laws of the United States of America, by which the
  agency, or an improvement district thereof, incurs an in-
  debtedness or liability exceeding in any year the income
  and revenue for such year shall not be executed without
  the assent of two-thirds of the qualified electors of the
  agency, or an improvement district thereof, voting at a spe-
 cial election to be held for that purpose, such election to be
  called and held, so far as practicable, in the same manner as
 bond elections for the agency. The exact form of such eon-
 tract need not be available at the time of the special election,
 but the (1) purpose of the contract; (2) maximum amount
 of the indebtedness created thereby; (3) maximum term of
 repayment, and (4) maximum interest rate on such indebted-
 ness shall be known and included in the proposition or meas-
 ure submitted to the qualified electors of the agency, or an
 improvement district thereof, at such special election.
     20. To commence, maintain, intervene in, defend and com-
 promise, in the name of the agency, or as a class representa-
 tive of the inhabitants, property owners, taxpayers, or water
 producers or water users within the agency, or otherwise, and
 to assume the costs and expenses of any and all actions and
 proceedings, now or hereafter begun, involving or affecting
 the ownership or use of water or water rights, used or useful
 for any purpose of the agency, or a common benefit to the
 lands within the agency or its inhabitants.
    20.1. To commence, maintain, intervene in, defend and com-
 promise, in the name of the agency, or as a class representative
 of the inhabitants, property owners, taxpayers, water pro-
 ducers or water users within the agency or otherwise, and to
assume the costs and expenses of any and all actions or pro-
 ceedings, now or hereafter begun, to prevent, control, or abate
the pollution of water used or useful for any purpose of the
agency, or a common benefit to lands within the agency, or
to the inhabitants of the agency, or any watershed or basin
overlain in whole or in part by the agency or which con-
tributes to the water supply of the agency.
    21. Distribute water to persons in exchange for ceasing or
reducing ground water extractions and to fix the terms and
conditions of any contract under which producers may agree
voluntarily to use replenishment water from a nontributary
source in lieu of ground water, and to such end an agency
may become a party to such contract and pay from the agency
funds such portion of the cost of such replenishment waters
as will encourage the purchase and use of such water in lieu of
pumping so long as the persons or property within the agency
are directly or indirectly benefited by the resulting replenish-
ment.
                      1969
Ch. 1175]                    REGULAR SESSION                      £281

    22. To issue revenue bonds for any purpose for which gen-
eral obligation bonds may be issued, and for any purpose for
which such bonds could be issued under the provisions of the
Revenue Bond Law of 1941 or any other law which by its
terms is applicable to this agency.
    23. To use the Improvement Act of 1911 for the construc-
tion of any facilities authorized to be constructed under the
provisions of this act. The powers and duties conferred by the
Improvement Act of 1911 on the various boards, officers and
agents of cities shall be exercised by the respective boards,
officers and agents of the Bighorn Mountains "Water Agency.
In the application of said Improvement Act of 1911 to pro-
ceedings instituted by the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency,
the terms used in said Improvement Act of 1911 shall have
the following meanings:
    (a) "City council" and " c o u n c i l " shall mean the board
of directors of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency.
    (b) "Municipality" and " c i t y " shall mean the Bighorn
Mountains Water Agency.
    (c) " Clerk " a nd " city clerk'' shall mean the secretary.
    (d) "Superintendent of streets," "street superintendent"
and "city engineer" shall mean the chief engineer of the
agency.
    (e) " Tax coll ector " shall mean the county tax collector. •
    (f) " T r e a s u r e r " and "city treasurer" shall mean the treas-
urer of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency.
    (g) " M a y o r " shall mean the president of the board of di-
rectors of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency.
    (h) "Right-of-way" shall mean any parcel of land in, on,
under or through which a right-of-way or easement has been
granted to the agency for the purpose of constructing and
maintaining any works or improvements of the Bighorn
Mountains Water Agency.
   Any certificates or documents required to be filed or re-
corded in the office of the superintendent of streets or street
superintendent shall be filed and recorded in the office of the
secretary of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency.
    SEC. 15.1. The agency shall have the power to construct,
operate and maintain works to develop hydroelectric energy,
for use by the agency in the operation of its works or as a
means of assisting in financing the construction, operation and
maintenance of its projects for the control, conservation, di-
version and transmission of water and to enter into contracts
 for the sale of such energy for a term not to exceed 50 years.
 Such energy may be marketed only at wholesale to any public
 agency or private entity, or both, or the federal or state
 government.
    SEC. 15.2. In connection with the construction and opera-
 tion of the works of the agency, the agency shall have the
 power to contract for the sale of the right to use falling
 water for electric energy purposes with any public agency or
2282              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1175

private entity engaged in the retail distribution of electric
energy, for a term not to exceed 50 years.
   SEC. 16. All powers, privileges and duties vested in or im-
posed upon the Bighorn Mountains "Water Agency incorpo-
rated hereunder shall be exercised and performed by and
through the board of directors; provided, however, that the
exercise of any and all executive, administrative and minis-
terial powers may be by said board of directors delegated and
redelegated to any of the officers created hereby and by the
board of directors acting hereunder.
   The board of directors shall have the power:
   (1) To fix the time and place or places at which its regular
meetings shall be held, and shall provide for the calling and
holding of special meetings.
   (2) To fix the location of the principal place of business
of the agency and the location of all offices and departments
maintained hereunder.
   (3) To prescribe by ordinance a system of business admin-
istration and to create any and all necessary offices and to
establish and reestablish the powers and duties and compen-
sation of all officers and employees and to require and fix the
amount of all official bonds necessary for the protection of
the funds and property of the agency.
   (4) To prescribe by ordinance a system of civil service.
   (5) To delegate and redelegate by ordinance to officers of
the agency power to employ clerical, legal and eingineering
assistants and labor, and under such conditions and restric-
tions as shall be fixed by the directors, power to bind the
agency by contract.
   (6) To prescribe a method of auditing and allowing or
rejecting claims and demands.
   (7) Any improvement or unit of work, when the cost ac-
cording to the estimate of the engineer will exceed five thou-
sand dollars ($5,000), shall be done by contract and shall be
let to the lowest responsible bidder or bidders as provided in
this section. The board shall first determine whether the con-
tract shall be let as a single unit for the whole of the work,
or divided into severable convenient parts. The board shall
advertise for bids by three (3) insertions in a daily newspaper
of general circulation or by two (2) insertions in a weekly
newspaper of general circulation printed and published in the
agency, if there is a newspaper printed and published in the
agency, inviting sealed proposals for the construction or per-
formance of the improvement or work. The call for bids shall
state whether the work shall be performed in one unit or di-
vided into parts. The work may be let under a single contract
or several contracts, as stated in such call. The board shall re-
quire the successful bidders to file with the board good and
sufficient bonds to be approved by the board conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the contract and upon the payment
of their claims for labor and material. The bonds shall comply
                    1969
Ch. 1175]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2283

with Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 4200) of Division
5 of Title 1 of the Government Code. The board may reject
any and all bids and readvertise, or by a two-thirds vote may
elect to undertake such work by force account. In the event
no proposals are received, or the estimated cost of the work
does not exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000), or the work
consists of channel protection, maintenance work, or emer-
gency work when necessary in order to protect life and prop-
erty from impending flood damage, the board may have the
work done by force account without advertising for bids. The
agency may purchase in the open market without advertising
for bids, materials and supplies for use in any work, either
under contract or by force account; provided, however, that
materials and supplies for use in any new construction work
or improvement, except work referred to in the preceding
sentence, may not be purchased if the cost thereof exceeds ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), without advertising for bids and
awarding the contract therefor to the lowest responsible
bidder.
   (8) To fix the rates at which water should be sold, and to
establish different rates for different classes or conditions of
service; provided, that rates shall be uniform for like classes
or conditions of service throughout the agency, but any special
water rate fixed in accordance with terms and conditions of
annexation, shall be deemed to be a rate for a different class
or condition of service.
   SEC. 17. A finding by the board of directors upon the
existence, threat, or duration of an emergency or shortage of
water or upon the matter of necessity or any other matter or
condition referred to in subdivisions 13 or 14 of Section 15
of this act, shall be made by resolution or ordinance, and
shall be prima facie evidence of the fact or matter so found,
and such fact or matter shall be presumed to continue un-
changed unless and until a contrary finding shall have been
made by the board by resolution or ordinance. Such finding
shall be received in evidence in any civil or criminal proceed-
ing in which it may be offered, and shall be proof and evidence
of the fact or matter found until rebutted or overcome by
other sufficient evidence received in such proceeding. Copy of
any resolution or ordinance setting forth such finding shall,
when certified by the secretary of the agency, be evidence that
the finding was made by the agency as shown by the resolu-
tion or ordinance and certification.
   SEC. 18. From and after the publication or posting of any
ordinance as provided in subdivision 14 of Section 15 of this
act, it is hereby declared to be and it shall be a misdemeanor
for any person, firm or corporation to use or apply water
received from the agency contrary to or in violation of such
restriction or prohibition, until such ordinance shall have
been repealed or such emergency or threatened emergency shall
have ceased, and upon conviction thereof such person, firm or
2284               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Qh. 1175

 corporation shall be punished by being imprisoned in the
 county jail for not more than 30 days or by fine of not more
 than three hundred dollars ($300), or by both such fine and
 imprisonment.
     SEC. 19.5. An action to determine the validity of any con-
 tract authorized by paragraph 19 of Section 15 may be brought
 pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 860) of
 Title 10 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
     SEC. 20. Except as herein provided, no director of the
 Bighorn Mountains Water Agency shall in any manner be, in-
 terested, directly or indirectly, in any contract awarded or to
 be awarded by the board of directors, and no officer or employee
 of any agency shall in any manner be interested, directly or
 indirectly, in any contract made by such officer or employee
 pursuant to discretionary authority vested in him, or in the
 benefits to be derived therefrom. For any violation of this
 section, such director or other officer or employee of the
 agency shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
 conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
 five hundred dollars ($500) or by imprisonment in the
 county jail not exceeding six months, or by both such fine
 and imprisonment. Neither this section nor any other law
 shall, however, be deemed to invalidate any contract or instru-
 ment, nor to establish or define any misdemeanor or other
 crime, merely because such director or other officer or em-
 ployee shall have any interest in such contract or instrument,
 or shall derive any benefit therefrom.
     (a) If such director or other officer or employee shall own
or control, directly or indirectly, not more than 5 per centum
 of the outstanding stock or securities of the contracting cor-
poration ; or
     (b) If such contract or instrument shall be entered into
pursuant to the provisions of any ordinance or regulation of
the agency of uniform application, and which ordinance or
regulation shall have become effective prior to the making or
execution of such contract or instrument.
    SEC. 21. The president, vice president and secretary in ad-
dition to the respective duties imposed on thom by law shall
perform such duties as may be imposed on them by the board
of directors. The treasurer, or such other person or persons as
may be authorized by the board of directors, shall draw checks
or warrants to pay demands when such demands shall have
been audited and approved in the manner prescribed by the
board of directors.
    If the president is absent or unable to act, the vice president
shall exercise the powers of the president granted by this act.
    The general manager shall have full charge and control of
the maintenance, operation and construction of the water-
works or waterworks system of the agency with full power
and authority to employ and discharge all employees and as-
sistants at pleasure, prescribe their duties, fix their compen-
sation, subject to the approval of the board of directors.
                     1969
 Ch. 1175]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2285

     The general manager shall perform such duties as may be
  imposed on him by the board of directors. The general man-
 ager shall report to the board of directors in accordance with
 such rules and regulations as they may direct.
     The chief engineer shall be the engineering adviser of the
 agency and shall perform such other duties as may be pre-
 scribed by the board of directors.
     The attorney shall be the legal adviser of the agency and
 shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
 board of directors.
    The board of directors shall designate a depository or de-
 positories to have the custody of the funds of the agency, all
 of which depositories shall give security sufficient to secure the
 agency against possible loss, and who shall pay the warrants
 drawn by the treasurer for demands against the agency under
 such rules as the directors may prescribe.
    The general manager, secretary and treasurer, and all other
 employees or assistants of said agency who may be required so
 to do by the board of directors, shall give such bonds to the
 agency conditioned for the faithful performance of their duties
 as the board of directors from time to time may provide. The
 premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the agency.
    SEC. 22. The board of directors shall have power to con-
 struct works along and across any stream of water, water-
course, street, avenue, highway, canal, ditch or flume, or across
 any railway which the route of said works may intersect or
 cross; provided, such works are constructed in such manner
 as to afford security for life and property, and said board of
 directors shall restore the crossings and intersections to their
former state as near as may be, or in a manner not to have
impaired unnecessarily their usefulness. Every company whose
right-of-way shall be intersected or crossed by said works shall
unite with said board of directors in forming said intersections
and crossings and grant the rights therefor. The right-of-way
is hereby given, dedicated and set apart to locate, construct
and maintain such works along and across any street or public
highway and over and through any of the lands which are now
or may be the property of this state, and to have the same
rights and privileges appertaining thereto as have been or may
be granted to cities within the state. Any use, under this sec-
tion, of a public highway now or hereafter constituted a state
highway shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 3 of Divi-
sion 1 of the Streets and Highway Code.
    SEC. 23. All claims for money or damages against this
agency are governed by Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
700) of Division 3.5 of Title 1 of the Government Code, except
as provided therein, or by other statutes or regulations ex-
pressly applicable thereto.
   SEC. 25. The board of directors, so far as practicable, shall
fix such rate or rates for water in the agency and in each im-
provement district therein as will result in revenues which
2286              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQJ^ U 7 5

will pay the operating expenses of the agency, and the im-
provement district, provide for repairs and depreciation of
works, provide a reasonable surplus for improvements, exten-
sions, and enlargements, pay the interest on any bonded debt,
and provide a sinking or other fund for the payment of the
principal of such debt as it may become due. Said rates for
water in each improvement district may vary from the rates
of the agency and from other improvement districts therein.
   SEC. 26. If the revenues of the agency, or any improve-
ment district therein, will be inadequate for any cause to pay
the operating expenses of the agency, provide for repairs and
depreciation of works owned or operated by it, and to meet
all obligations of the agency, including principal of or interest
on any bonded debt of the agency, or any improvement dis-
trict thereof, as it becomes due, then the board of directors
of this agency must provide for the levy and collection of a
tax sufficient to raise the amount of money determined by
such board of directors to be necessary for the purpose of
paying such charges and expenses, as well as providing the
funds required under Section 25 of this act.
   SEC. 27. The board of directors shall determine the
amounts necessary to be raised by taxation during the fiscal
year and shall fix the rate or rates of tax to be levied which
will raise the amounts of money required by the agency, and
within a reasonable time previous to the time when the board
of supervisors is required by law to fix its tax rate, the board
of directors shall certify to the board of supervisors the rate
or rates so fixed and shall furnish to the board of supervisors
a statement in writing containing the following: (a) an esti-
mate of the minimum amount of money required to be raised
by taxation during the fiscal year for the payment of the
principal of and interest on any bonded debt of the agency or
of an improvement district thereof as will become due before
the proceeds of a tax levied at the next general tax levy will
be available; (b) an estimate of the minimum amount of
money required to be raised by taxation during the fiscal year
for all other purposes of the agency. The board of directors
shall direct that at the time and in the manner required by
law for the levying of taxes for county purposes, such board
of supervisors shall levy, in addition to such other tax as may
be levied by such board of supervisors, at the rate or rates so
fixed and determined by the board of directors, a tax upon the
property within the agency, or improvement district thereof
benefited by the bonded debt, as the case may be, and it is
made the duty of the officer or body having authority to levy
taxes within each county to levy the tax so required. Taxes for
the payment of the interest on or principal of any bonded
debts shall be levied on the property within the agency, or
improvement district thereof, benefited by the bonded debt,
as determined by the board of directors in the resolution de-
claring the necessity to incur the debt. Taxes for other pur-
                     1969
Ch. 11751                   REGULAR SESSION                  2287

 poses of the agency shall be levied on all property in the
 district or portion thereof subject to the particular tax. And
it shall be the duty of all county officers charged with the duty
of collecting taxes to collect such tax in time, form, and
manner as county taxes are collected, and when collected to
pay the same to the agency. Taxes for the payment of a
bonded debt and the interest thereon shall be a lien on all the
property benefited thereby as stated in the resolution of the
board of directors declaring the necessity to incur the debt.
All taxes for other purposes of the agency shall be a lien on
all the property in the agency subject to the respective tax.
Agency taxes, whether for payment of a bonded indebtedness
 and the interest thereon or for other purposes, shall be of the
same force and effect as other liens for taxes, and their collec-
tion may be enforced by the same means as provided for the
enforcement of liens for state and county taxes.
   SEC. 28. "Whenever the board of directors deem it neces-
sary for the agency to incur a bonded indebtedness for the
acquisition, construction, completion, or repair of any or all
 improvements, works or property mentioned in this act, the
 board shall, by resolution, so declare and call an election to be
held in said agency for the purpose of submitting to the quali-
fied voters thereof the proposition of incurring indebtedness by
the issuance of bonds of said agency. Said resolution shall state:
 (a) the purpose for which the proposed debt is to be incurred,
which may include expenses of all proceedings for the au-
thorization, issuance and sale of the bonds; (b) the amount of
debt to be incurred; (c) the maximum term the bonds pro-
posed to be issued shall run before maturity, which shall not
exceed 40 years; (d) the maximum rate of interest to be paid,
which shall not exceed 7 percent per annum, payable semi-
annually, except that interest for the first year may be payable
at the end of said year; (e) the measure to be submitted to the
voters; (f) the date upon which an election shall be held for
the purpose of authorizing said bonded indebtedness to be in-
curred; and (g) the designation of precincts, the location of
polling places, and the names of the officers selected to conduct
the election, who shall consist of one judge, one inspector and
two clerks in each precinct. The board of directors shall pro-
vide for holding such special election on the day so fixed and
in accordance with the provisions of the Elections Code so far
as the same shall be applicable, except as herein otherwise pro-
vided. Notice of the holding of such election shall be given by
publishing pursuant to Section 6066 of the Government Code
the resolution calling the election, the last publication to be
made not less than two weeks prior to the date of the proposed
election, in at least one newspaper published in such agency,
if there is a newspaper published in the agency, then such
resolution shall be posted in three public places in such agency
not less than two weeks prior to the date of the proposed elec-
tion. No other notice of such election need be given. The re-
2288               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              r0n> U75

 turns of such election shall be made, the votes canvassed by
 said board of directors within seven days following said elec-
 tion, and the results thereof ascertained and declared in ac-
 cordance with the provisions of the Elections Code, so far as
 they may be applicable, except as in this act otherwise pro-
 vided. The secretary of the board of directors, as soon as the
 result is declared, shall enter in the records of such board a
 statement of such results. No irregularities or informalities in
 conducting such election shall invalidate the same, if the elec-
 tion shall have otherwise been fairly conducted.
    Any action or proceeding, wherein the validity of any such
 bonds or of the proceedings in relation thereto is contested,
 questioned or denied, shall be commenced within three months
 from the date of such election; otherwise, said bonds and all
 proceedings in relation thereto shall be held to be valid and in
 every respect legal and incontestable.
    SEC. 29. Whenever the board of directors deems it neces-
 sary to incur a bonded indebtedness for the acquisition, con-
 struction, completion, or repair of any or all improvements,
 works or property mentioned in this act and to provide for
 such bonded indebtedness to be payable from taxes levied upon
 less than all of the agency, the board shall, by resolution, so
 declare and state: (a) the purpose for which the proposed
 debt is to be incurred; (b) the amount of debt to be incurred,
 which may include expenses of all proceedings for the author-
 ization, issuance and the sale of the bonds; (c) that the board
intends to form an improvement district of a portion of the
 agency which in the opinion of the board will be benefited, the
 exterior boundaries of which portion are set forth on a map
 on file with the secretary of the agency, which map shall gov-
ern for all details as to the extent of the proposed improve-
ment district, and to call an election in such proposed im-
provement district on a date to be fixed, for the purpose of
submitting to the qualified voters thereof the proposition of
incurring indebtedness by the issuance of bonds of the agency
for said improvement district; (d) that taxes for the payment
of said bonds and the interest thereon shall be levied exclu-
sively upon the taxable property in the improvement district;
 (e) that a general description of the proposed improvement,
together with a map showing the exterior boundaries of said
proposed improvement district with relation to the territory
immediately contiguous thereto and to the proposed improve-
ment is on file with the secretary of the agency and is avail-
able for inspection by any person or persons interested; (f)
the time and place for a hearing by the board on the questions
of the formation of said proposed improvement district, the
extent thereof, the proposed improvement and the amount of
debt to be incurred; and (g) that at the time and place speci-
fied in the resolution any person interested, including all per-
sons owning property in the agency or in the proposed im-
provement district, will be heard. Notice of said hearing shall
                    l969
Ch. 1175]                  REGTJLAK SESSION                £289

 be given by publishing a copy of the resolution pursuant to
 Section 6066 of the Government Code prior to the time fixed
 for the hearing in a newspaper printed and published in the
 agency, if there is a newspaper printed and published in such
 agency. Such notice shall also be given by posting a copy of
 said resolution in six public places within the proposed im-
 provement district at least two weeks before the time fixed for
 said hearing.
   At the time and place so fixed, or at any time and place to
 which the hearing is adjourned, the board shall proceed with
 the hearing. At the hearing any person interested, including
 any person owning property within the agency or within any
 proposed improvement district, may appear and present any
 matters material to the questions set forth in the resolution
 declaring the necessity for incurring the bonded indebtedness.
 The board shall have the power to change the purpose for
 which the proposed debt is to be incurred, or the amount of
 bonded debt to be incurred, or the boundaries of said proposed
 improvement district, or one or all of said matters; provided,
however, that said board shall not change such boundaries so
as to include any territory which will not, in its judgment,
be benefited by said improvement.
   The purpose, amount of bonded debt or boundaries shall not
be changed by said board except after notices of its intention
to do so, given by publication pursuant to Section 6061 of the
 Government Code in a newspaper printed and published in
said Bighorn Mountains "Water Agency, if there is a newspaper
printed and published in such agency, and by posting in six
public places within said proposed improvement district.
Said notice shall state the changed purpose and debt proposed
and that the exterior boundaries as proposed to be changed
are set forth on a map on file with the secretary of the agency,
which map shall govern for all details as to the extent of the
proposed improvement district, and specify the time and place
for hearing on such change, which time shall be at least 10
days after publication or posting of said notice. At the time
and place so fixed, or at any time and place to which the
hearing is adjourned, the board shall proceed with the hearing.
At the hearing any person interested, including any person
owning property within the agency or the proposed improve-
ment district, may appear and present any matters material
to the changes stated in the notice. At the conclusion of the
hearing the board shall by resolution determine whether it is
deemed necessary to incur the bonded indebtedness, and, if
so, the resolution shall also state the purpose for which said
proposed debt is to be incurred, the amount of the proposed
debt, that the exterior boundaries of the portion of the agency
which will be benefited are set forth on a map on file with
the secretary of the agency which map shall govern for all
details as to the extent of the improvement district, and that
said portion of the agency set forth on said map shall there-
2290               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r Q ^ J275

upon constitute and be known as "Improvement District
No.       of Bighorn Mountains Water Agency," and the de-
terminations made in said resolution shall be final and con-
clusive. After the formation of such improvement district
within the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency pursuant to this
section, all proceedings for the purpose of a bond election shall
be limited, and shall apply only to the improvement district,
 and taxes for the payment of said bonds and the interest
thereon shall be levied exclusively upon the taxable property in
the improvement district.
   After the board has made its determination of the matters
required to be determined by said last mentioned resolution,
and if the board deems it necessary to incur the bonded in-
debtedness, the board shall by a further resolution call a special
election in said improvement district for the purpose of sub-
mitting to the qualified voters thereof the proposition of in-
curring indebtedness by the issuance of bonds of the agency
for said improvement district. Said resolution shall state: (a)
that the board deems it necessary to incur the bonded indebt-
edness; (b) the purpose for which the bonded indebtedness
will be incurred; (c) the amount of debt to be incurred; (d)
the improvement district to be benefited by said indebtedness,
 as set forth in the resolution making determinations, and that
a map showing the exterior boundaries of said improvement
district is on file with the secretary of the agency, which map
shall govern for all details as to the extent of the improvement
district; (e) that taxes for the payment of such bonds and the
interest thereon shall be levied exclusively upon the taxable
property in said improvement district; (f) the maximum term
the bonds proposed to be issued shall run before maturity,
which shall not exceed 40 years; (g) the maximum rate of
interest to be paid, which shall not exceed 7 percent per
annum, payable semiannually, except that interest for the first
year may be payable at the end of the said year; (h) the meas-
ure to be submitted to the voters; (i) the date upon which an
election shall be held for the purpose of authorizing said
bonded indebtedness to be incurred; and (j) the designation
of precincts, the location of polling places, and the names of
the officers selected to conduct the election, who shall consist
of one judge, one inspector and two clerks in each precinct.
   The board of directors shall provide for holding such special
election on the day so fixed and in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Elections Code so far as the same shall be appli-
cable, except as herein otherwise provided. Notice of the hold-
ing of such election shall be given by publishing pursuant to
Section 6066 of the Government Code the resolution calling
the election prior to the date of the proposed election in at
least one newspaper printed and published in the agency, if
there is a newspaper printed and published in such agency.
Such resolution shall also be posted in three public places in
such improvement district not less than two weeks prior to
                    1969
Ch. 1175]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2291

the date of the proposed election. No other notice of such
election need be given.
   The returns of such election shall be made, the votes can-
vassed by said board of directors within seven days following
said election, and the results thereof ascertained and declared
in accordance with the provisions of the Elections Code so far
as they may be applicable, except as in this act otherwise pro-
vided. The secretary of the board of directors, as soon as the
result is declared, shall enter in the records of such board a
statement of such results. No irregularities or informalities
in conducting such election shall invalidate the same, if the
election shall have otherwise been fairly conducted.
   Any action or proceeding, wherein the validity of the for-
mation of the improvement district or of any such bonds or
of the proceedings in relation thereto is contested, questioned
or denied, shall be commenced within three months from the
date of such election; otherwise, said bonds and all proceed-
ings in relation thereto, including the formation of the im-
provement district, shall be held to be valid and in every
respect legal and incontestable.
   SEC. 30. Any portion of the Bighorn Mountains Water
Agency whether contiguous or not to an improvement district
thereof may be annexed to said improvement district in the
following manner. A petition, which may consist of any num-
ber of separate instruments, shall be filed with the secretary
of the agency, signed by holders of title to sixty percent
 (60%) or more of the land in the portion proposed to be
annexed, which land as so represented in said petition shall
have an assessed valuation of not less than fifty percent (50%)
of the land so proposed to be annexed. The petition shall con-
tain the following: (a) a description of the area proposed to
be annexed, which may be made by reference to a map on
file with the secretary of the agency, which map shall govern
for all details as to the extent of the area proposed to be
annexed, or in any other definite manner; (b) the terms and
conditions upon which said proposed area may be annexed
as theretofore determined by resolution adopted by the board
of directors of the agency; and (c) a prayer that the board of
directors declare such area to be annexed to the improvement
district. Said petition shall be accompanied by a certified
check payable to the order of the agency in sufficient sum to
reimburse said agency for expenses of processing and pub-
lishing the petition and preparing and making the filings
required by law.
   Within 10 days of the date of the filing of such petition the
secretary of the agency shall examine the same and ascertain
whether or not such petition is signed by the required number
of property owners; and, if requested by the secretary of the
agency, the board of directors shall authorize him to employ
persons especially for that purpose, in addition to the persons
regularly employed in his office, and shall provide for their
2292               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                 fQh. 1175

 compensation. When the secretary of the agency has completed
 his examination of the petition, he shall attach to the same his
 certificate, properly dated, showing the result of such exami-
 nation; and if from such examination he shall find that said
 petition is signed by the requisite number of property owners,
 or is not so signed, he shall certify that the same is sufficient,
 or insufficient, as the case may be.
    If by the certificate of the secretary of the agency the peti-
 tion is found to be insufficient, said petition may be amended
 by filing a supplemental petition or petitions within 10 days
 of the date of such certificate. The secretary of the agency
 shall within 10 days after the filing of such supplemental pe-
tition or petitions, make like examination of the same and
 certify to the result of such examination as hereinbefore pro-
 vided.
    If by the certificate of the secretary such petition or petition
 as amended, is shown to be sufficient the secretary shall cause
 notice of hearing on the petition to be published and posted
 without delay.
    The text of said petition shall be published pursuant to Sec-
 tion 6066 of the Government Code prior to the time at which
the same is to be presented to the board of directors of the
 agency in at least one newspaper printed and published in
the Bighorn Mountains "Water Agency, if there is a newspaper
 printed and published in such agency; together with a notice
 stating the time and place of the meeting at which the same
will be presented. When contained upon one or more instru-
ments one copy only of such petition need be published. No
more than five of the names attached to said petition need
appear in said publication of said petition and notice, but
the number of signers shall be stated. Said notice and petition
 shall also be posted in three public places in the improvement
district and three public places in the area proposed to be
annexed, at least two weeks prior to the hearing.
    The board of directors of the agency shall proceed to hear
the petition at the time and place fixed therefor and any per-
son residing within the agency or improvement district or own-
ing taxable property in said agency or improvement district
shall be entitled to appear and be heard at such hearing. Such
hearing may be continued from time to time by the board of
directors of the agency. At the conclusion of the hearing, and
if the board of directors finds and determines from the evi-
dence presented at said hearing that the area proposed to be
annexed to an improvement district will be benefited thereby,
and that the improvement district to which said area proposed
to be annexed will also be benefited thereby and will not be
injured thereby, then and in such case the board of directors
of the agency may, by resolution, approve such annexation,
describing the territory so annexed, which may be by reference
to a map on file with the secretary of the agency shall gov-
ern for all details as to the extent of the annexed area, or in
                    1969
Ch. 1175]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2293

any other definite manner, and the terms and conditions of an-
nexation as theretofore determined by resolution of the board
of directors.
   Prom and after the date of the adoption of such resolution
the area named therein shall be deemed added to and shall
form a part of said improvement district and the taxable prop-
erty therein shall be subject to taxation thereafter for the
purposes of said improvement district, including the payment
of the principal of and interest on bonds and other obligations
of such improvement district at the time authorized and out-
standing at the time of said annexation as if said annexed
property had always been a part of said improvement district,
and the board of directors of the Bighorn Mountains Water
Agency shall be empowered to do all things necessary to en-
force and make effective the terms and conditions of annexa-
tion fixed as hereinabove authorized.
   Any action or proceeding wherein the validity of any such
annexation is contested, questioned or denied must be com-
menced within three months after the date of issuance by the
Secretary of State of his certificate; otherwise said annexa-
tion shall be held to be valid and in every respect legal and
incontestable.
   SEC. 31. If from such returns it appears that more than
two-thirds of the votes cast in such election held pursuant to
the provisions of Section 28 or of Section 29 of this act, were
in favor of and assented to the incurring of such indebtedness,
then the board of directors may, by resolution, at such time or
times as it deems proper, issue bonds of the agency for the
whole or any part of the amount of the indebtedness so author-
ized, and may from time to time provide for the issuance of
such amounts as the necessity thereof may appear, until the
full amount of such bonds authorized shall have been issued.
Said full amount of bonds may be divided into two or more
series and different dates fixed for each of the series. The
maximum term which the bonds of any series shall run before
maturity shall not exceed 40 years from the date of each
series respectively.
   The board of directors shall, by resolution, prescribe the
form of the bonds and the form of the coupons attached thereto
and fix the time when the whole or any part of the principal
shall become due and payable. The payment of the first install-
ment of principal may be deferred for a period of not more
than five years from the date of the bonds or the date of the
bonds of each series respectively. The bonds shall bear interest
at a rate or rates not to exceed 7 percent per annum, pay-
able semiannually, except that interest for the first year may be
payable at the end of said year. The board of directors may
also provide for call and redemption of bonds prior to ma-
turity at such times and prices and upon such other terms as
it may specify. A bond shall not be subject to call or redemp-
tion prior to maturity unless it contains a recital to that effect
or unless a statement to that effect is printed thereon.
2294              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               T Q ^ ^175

   The denomination of the bonds shall be stated in the resolu-
tion providing for their issuance, but shall not be less than
one hundred dollars ($100). The principal and interest shall be
payable in lawful money of the United States at the office of
the treasurer of the district or such other place or places as
may be designated, or at either place or places at the option
of the holder of the bond.
   The bonds shall be dated, numbered consecutively, and be
signed by the president and treasurer of the agency, counter-
signed by the secretary of the agency, and the official seal of
the agency attached. The interest coupons of such bonds shall
be signed by the treasurer of said agency. All such signatures
and countersignatures may be printed, lithographed, or me-
chanically reproduced, except that one of said signatures or
countersignatures to said bonds shall be manually affixed.
   If the bond election proceedings have been limited to and
have applied only to an improvement district within said
agency, said bonds are bonds of the agency and shall be issued
in the name of the agency and shall be designated "Bonds of
the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency for Improvement Dis-
trict No.    " and each bond and all interest coupons thereof
shall state that taxes levied for the payment thereof shall be
levied exclusively upon the taxable property in said improve-
ment district.
   Before selling the bonds, or any part thereof, the board of
directors shall give notice inviting sealed bids in such manner
as it may prescribe. If satisfactory bids are received, the bonds
offered for sale shall be awarded to the highest responsible
bidder. If no bids are received, or if said board determines
that the bids received are not satisfactory as to price or re-
sponsibility of the bidders, it may reject all bids received, if
any, and either readvertise or sell the bonds at private sale.
   The proceeds arising from the sale of bonds shall be paid
into the treasury of the agency and placed to the credit of a
special improvement fund and expended only for the purpose
for which the indebtedness was created; provided, however,
that when said purpose has been accomplished any moneys re-
maining in said special improvement fund may be transferred
to the fund to be used for the payment of principal of and
interest on the bonds. Said remaining moneys remaining from
the sale of bonds of the agency may also be used for some other
agency purpose. Such moneys remaining from the sale of bonds
of the agency for an improvement district therein may also
be used for any purpose which will benefit the property in
the improvement district. Said moneys may not be used for
said other agency purpose or improvement district purpose
until two-thirds of the qualified voters of said agency or im-
provement district have consented thereto at a special election
called in said agency or improvement district by the board of
directors. Notice of said election shall be given in the manner
provided for bond elections in said agency or improvement
                    1969
Ch. 11751                  REGULAR SESSION                  2295

 district, as the case may be, and in other respects the election
shall be conducted as are other agency elections.
    SEC. 32. Any bonds issued by the Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency are hereby given the same force, value and use
as bonds issued by any city and shall be exempt from all
taxation within the State of California.
    SEC. 33. "Whenever the board of directors deems it neces-
sary to form an improvement district of a portion of the
agency for a purpose other than the incurring of bonded in-
debtedness under Section 29 of this act it shall by resolution
so declare and state: (a) the purpose for which the proposed
improvement district is to be formed, (b) the estimated ex-
pense of carrying out said purpose, (c) that the board intends
to form an improvement district of a portion of the agency
which in the opinion of the board will be benefited, the ex-
terior boundaries of which portion are set forth on a map on
file with the secretary of the agency, which map shall govern
for all details as to the extent of the proposed improvement
district, (d) that taxes for carrying out said purpose shall be
levied exclusively upon the taxable property in said proposed
improvement district, (e) that a map showing the exterior
boundaries of said proposed improvement district, with rela-
tion to the territory immediately contiguous thereto, is on file
with the secretary of the agency and is available for inspection
by any person or persons interested, (f) the time and place
for a hearing by the board on the questions of the formation of
said proposed improvement district, the extent thereof, the
purpose for which it is to be formed, and the estimated ex-
pense of carrying out said purpose and (g) that at said time
and place any person interested, including all persons owning
property in the agency or in the proposed improvement dis-
trict will be heard. Notice of said hearing shall be given by
publishing a copy of the resolution pursuant to Section 6066
of the Government Code prior to the time fixed for the hearing
in a newspaper circulated in the Bighorn Mountains Water
Agency, if there is a newpaper circulated therein. Said notice
shall also be given by posting a copy of said resolution in
three public places within the proposed improvement district
for at least two weeks before the time fixed for said hearing.
    At the time and place so fixed, or at any time or place to
which the hearing is adjourned, the board shall proceed with
the hearing at which hearing any person interested, including
all persons owning property in the agency, or in the proposed
improvement district, may appear and present any matters
material to the questions set forth in the resolution. At the
conclusion of the hearing the board shall by resolution deter-
mine whether it is necessary to form said improvement district,
and, if so, the resolution shall also state the purpose for which
the proposed improvement district is to be formed, estimated
expense of carrying out said purpose, that the exterior bound-
aries of the portion of the agency which will be benefited are
2296              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. H 7 5

set forth on a map on file with the secretary of the agency,
which map shall govern for all details as to the extent of the
improvement district, and that said portion of the agency set
forth on said map, shall thereupon constitute and be known
as "Improvement District (A, B, C, or other letter designa-
tion) of the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency," and the de-
 terminations made in said resolution shall be final and conclu-
sive. After the formation of such improvement district within
the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency pursuant to this section
 all taxes levied for the carrying out of said purpose shall be
levied exclusively upon the taxable property in the improve-
ment district.
    A copy of the resolution forming the improvement district
shall be published pursuant to Section 6066 of the Govern-
ment Code in a newspaper printed and published in the
agency, if there is a newspaper printed and published in the
 agency, and a copy of said resolution shall also be posted in
three public places within the proposed improvement district
for at least two weeks. Said resolution shall not be effective
until the 31st day after completion of said publication and/or
posting. If before said effective date a petition signed by not
less than 10 percent of the voters of the improvement district
requesting that an alection be held on the formation thereof
is presented to the board of directors, said board shall call a
special election in the improvement district for the purpose
of submitting the question of the formation of the improve-
ment district to the voters of said improvement district.
    The board of directors shall provide for holding such special
election on the day so fixed and in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Elections Code so far as the same shall be appli-
cable, except as herein otherwise provided. Notice of the
holding of such election shall be given by publishing the reso-
lution calling the election pursuant to Section 6066 of the
Government Code prior to the date of the proposed election,
in at least one newspaper printed and published in the Bighorn
Mountains Water Agency, if there is a newspaper printed and
published in such agency. Such resolution shall also be posted
in three public places in such improvement district not less
than two weeks prior to the date of the proposed election. No
other notice of such election need be given.
   The returns of such election shall be made, the votes can-
vassed by said board of directors within seven days following
said election, and the results thereof ascertained and declared
in accordance with the provisions of the Elections Code so
far as they may be applicable, except as in this act otherwise
provided. The secretary of the board of directors, as soon as
the result is declared, shall enter in the records of such board
a statement of such results. No irregularities or informalities
in conducting such election shall invalidate the same, if the
elections shall have otherwise been fairly conducted.
   If from such returns it appears that a majority of the votes
cast at such election were in favor of the formation of such
                     1969
Ch. 1175]                   REGULAR SESSION                   2297

 improvement district, the formation of such improvement dis-
 trict shall be complete.
    Any action or proceeding wherein the validity of the for-
 mation of the improvement district or of any of the proceed-
 ings in relation thereto is contested, questioned or denied, shall
 be commenced within three months from the effective date of
 the resolution forming such district, or if an election is held,
 within three months from the date of such election, otherwise
 the formation of the improvement district and all proceedings
 in relation thereto, shall be held to be valid and in every re-
 spect legal and incontestable.
    SEC. 34. The board of directors may advance general funds
 of the agency to accomplish the purposes of an improvement
 district formed in accordance with Sections 29 or 33 and, if
the improvement district is formed under Section 29, may re-
pay the agency from the proceeds of the sale of bonds author-
ized for such purpose, or if the improvement district is formed
under Section 33 may, in the formation of such improvement
district, provide that the agency shall be repaid with interest
 at not to exceed 7 percent from the special taxes levied ex-
clusively upon the taxable property in said improvement dis-
trict.
    SEC. 35. Interest on any bonds issued by the agency coming
due before the proceeds of a tax levied at the next general tax
levy after the sale of said bonds are available, and interest on
any bonds issued by the agency coming due before the expira-
tion of one year following completion of the acquisition and
construction of the works and improvements for which the
bonds were issued may be paid from the proceeds of the sale
of such bonds.
   SEC. 36. Land not a part of the agency whether or not con-
tiguous to it or to other portions added to the agency, and
consisting of any portion of the county wherein the agency
was formed or of any municipality therein, or of land in any
county contiguous to the county wherein the agency was
formed or of any municipality therein, may be included within
the agency.
   SEC. 40. Ordinances may be passed by the voters of the
Bighorn Mountains Water Agency organized under the pro-
visions of this act in accordance with the methods provided by
the Elections Code for direct legislation in cities.
   SEC. 41. Ordinances may be disapproved and thereby ve-
toed by the voters of this agency by proceeding in accordance
with the methods provided by the Elections Code for protest-
ing against legislation in cities.
   SEC. 42. I t is the intention that the Bighorn Mountains
Water Agency shall not be disincorporated until all bonded
indebtedness shall have been fully paid.
   SEC. 45. Nothing in this act shall be so construed as re-
pealing or in anywise modifying the provisions of any other
act relating to water or the supply of water to, or the acquisi
2298               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                r Q j . JJ75

tion thereof, by cities within this state. The term " c i t y , " as
used in this act, shall mean and include any city or incorpo-
rated town, whether organized or functioning under a free-
holders' charter or under the provisions of general laws. The
word " a g e n c y " shall apply, unless otherwise expressed or
used, to the Bighorn Mountains Water Agency formed under
the provisions of this act, and the word " b o a r d " and the words
"board of directors" shall apply to the board of directors of
such agency. The term "indebtedness" shall mean all in-
debtedness other than bonded indebtedness unless the latter is
expressly used. The meaning of the term " v o t e r , " as used in
this act, shall be ascertained by reference to Section 21 of the
Elections Code.
   SEC. 46. If there shall be a registrar of voters, other than
the county clerk, in the principal county in which the Bighorn
Mountains Water Agency is hereby incorporated, or incor-
porated, under the provisions of this act, is situated, the
duties required by this act to be performed by the county
clerk respecting the nomination of candidates for offices of
such water agency and the holding of elections in such
agency, shall be performed by such registrar of voters.
   SEO. 48. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this act or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is for any reason held invalid the validity of
the remainder of the act or the application of such provision
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
The Legislature hereby declares that it would have passed this
act and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase
thereof irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, sub-
sections, sentences, clauses or phrases or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance be held invalid.
   SEC. 49. The inclusion in, or annexation or addition to
this agency, of the corporate area of any public corporation or
public agency shall not destroy the identity or legal existence
or impair the powers of any such public corporation or public
agency, notwithstanding the identity of purpose, or substan-
tial identity of purpose of this agency. No public corporation
or public agency having identity of purpose or substantial
identity of purpose shall be formed partly or entirely within
this agency, whether by incorporation or annexation, without
the consent of the board of directors of this agency.
   SEC. 50. The agency, by ordinance, may fix, on or before
the first day of July in any calendar year, a water standby
or availability charge within the agency or in any improve-
ment district thereof to which water is made available by
the agency through underground or by surface facilities,
whether the water is actually used or not. The standby charge
shall not exceed ten dollars ($10) per acre per year for each
acre of land within the agency or any improvement district
thereof or ten dollars ($10) per year for any parcel of less
than one acre. The ordinance fixing a standby charge shall be
                    1969
Ch. 11751                  REGULAR SESSION                   2299

adopted by the board only after adoption of a resolution set-
ting forth the particular schedule or schedules of charges pro-
posed to be established by ordinance and after notice and hear-
ing in the manner prescribed in the District Reorganization
Act of 1965 (commencing with Section 56000 of the Govern-
ment Code). The ordinance fixing a standby charge may estab-
lish schedules varying the charges according to land uses,
water uses, and degree of water availability. On or before
the third Monday in August, the board shall furnish in
writing to the board of supervisors and the county auditor
of each affected county a description of each parcel of land
within the agency upon which a charge is to be levied and
collected for the current fiscal year, together with the amount
of standby charge fixed by the district on each parcel of land.
The board shall direct that, at the time and in the manner
required by law for the levying of taxes for county purposes,
the board of supervisors shall levy, in addition to any other
tax it levies, a standby charge in the amounts for the respec-
tive parcels fixed by the board. All county officers charged
with the duty of collecting taxes shall collect agency standby
charges with the regular tax payments to the county. Such
charges shall be collected in the same form and manner as
county taxes are collected and shall be paid to the agency.
Charges fixed by the agency shall be a lien on all the prop-
erty benefited thereby. Liens for such charges shall be of the
same force and effect as other liens for taxes, and their collec-
tion may be enforced by the same means as provided for the
enforcement of liens for state and county taxes.
   SEC. 51. The agency may issue negotiable promissory notes
pursuant to this section, bearing interest at a rate not to ex-
ceed 7 percent per annum, for the purpose of acquiring funds
to finance the construction or acquisition of administrative
offices, construction headquarters, commercial offices, or facili-
ties for similar agency purposes and for the acquisition of land
for agency purposes. The maturity of such promissory notes
shall not be later than 10 years from the date thereof. The
total aggregate amount of such notes outstanding at any one
time may be at least equal to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000),
but shall not exceed the lesser of either five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000) or 1 percent of the assessed val-
uation of the taxable property in the agency or, if the assessed
valuation is not obtainable, 1 percent of the county auditor's
estimate of the assessed valuation of the taxable property in
the agency evidenced by his certificate. Promissory notes is-
sued pursuant to subdivision 11 of Section 15 may be disre-
garded in computing the aggregate amount of notes that may
be issued pursuant to this section.
   SEC. 52. "Whenever the board deems it necessary to incur a
bonded indebtedness for the acquisition, construction, comple-
tion, or repair of any or all improvements, works, or property
mentioned in this law and to provide for such bonded indebted-
2300               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               m ^ . 1175

ness to be payable from taxes levied upon an uninhabited
portion of the agency, the board shall, by resolution, declare
its intention to form an uninhabited improvement district
 in such portion of the agency and to incur such indebtedness.
   For the purposes of this law the portion of the agency
formed into an uninhabited improvement district shall be
deemed uninhabited if less than 12 voters reside therein at
the time of the formation thereof.
   The resolution of intention shall state that the board intends
to form an improvement district of an uninhabited portion of
the agency which in the opinion of the board will be benefited,
and to incur indebtedness by the issuance of bonds of the
agency for such uninhabited improvement district.
   The resolution of intention shall also state:
    (a) The purpose for which the proposed debt is to be in-
curred.
    (b) The amount of debt to be incurred, which may include
expenses of all proceedings for the authorization, issuance,
and sale of the bonds.
    (c) That taxes for the payment of the bonds and the inter-
est thereon will be levied exclusively upon the taxable prop-
erty in the uninhabited improvement district.
   The resolution of intention shall also state that a general de-
scription of the proposed improvement, together with a map
showing the exterior boundaires of the proposed uninhabited
improvement district with relation to the territory immedi-
ately contiguous thereto and to the proposed improvement is
on file with the secretary and is available for inspection by
any person or persons interested. This map shall govern for
all details as to the extent of the proposed uninhabited im-
provement district.
   The resolution of intention shall also state:
    (a) The time and place for a hearing by the board on the
questions of the formation and extent of the proposed un-
inhabited improvement district, the proposed improvement,
and the amount of debt to be incurred.
   (b) That at the time and place specified in the resolution
any person interested will be heard, and that any owner of
property within the proposed uninhabited improvement dis-
trict may file with the secretary at any time prior to the time
set for the hearing thereon written protest to the formation
of the proposed uninhabited improvement district.
   Notice of the hearing shall be given by publishing a copy
of the resolution pursuant to Section 6066 of the Government
Code prior to the time fixed for the hearing in a newspaper
circulated in the agency, if there is a newspaper circulated
in the agency. Such notice shall also be given by posting a
copy of the resolution of intention in three public places within
the proposed uninhabited improvement district for at least
two weeks before the time fixed for the hearing.
                     1969 R E Q
 Ch. 11751                        u L A R SESSION            2301

     A copy of the resolution of intention shall also be mailed,
  postage prepaid, to each person to whom land in the pro-
  posed uninhabited improvement district is assessed as shown
  on the last equalized county assessment roll, at his address
  as shown upon the roll, and to any person, whether owner
  in fee or having a lien upon, or legal or equitable interest in,
  any land within the proposed uninhabited improvement dis-
  trict, whose name and address and a designation of the land
  in which he is interested is on file with the secretary.
     At the time and place fixed in the resolution of inten-
 tion, or at any time or place to which the hearing is ad-
 journed, the board shall proceed with the hearing. At the
 hearing any person interested may appear and present any
 matters material to the questions set forth in the resolu-
 tion. Also at the hearing the board shall hear and pass upon
 all written protests filed by the owners of property within
 the proposed uninhabited improvement district.
     If written protests are filed by the owners of one-half of
 the value of the property within the proposed uninhabited
 improvement district, as shown by the last equalized assess-
 ment roll of the county, further proceedings shall not be
 taken. If such protests are not made the board shall by
 resolution determine whether it is necessary to incur the
bonded indebtedness and if so, the resolution shall also state:
     (a) The purpose for which the proposed debt is to be in-
curred.
     (b) The amount of the proposed debt.
     (c) That the exterior boundaries of the portion of the
agency which will be benefited are set forth on a map on
file with the secretary, which map shall govern for all de-
tails as to the extent of the uninhabited improvement dis-
trict.
     (d) That such portion of the agency set forth on the map
shall thereupon constitute and be known as "Improvement
District No.             of           Bighorn Mountains "Water
Agency".
    The determinations made in the resolution of formation shall
be final and conclusive.
    After the formation of the uninhabited improvement dis-
trict pursuant to this law the board may, by resolution, at
such time or times as it deems proper, issue bonds of the
agency, pursuant to Section 31 of this law, for the whole
or any part of the amount of the indebtedness authorized by
the resolution of formation. All taxes levied for the payment
of the bonds and the interest thereon shall be levied exclu-
sively upon the taxable property in the uninhabited improve-
ment district.
    Any action or proceeding in which the validity of the
formation of an uninhabited improvement district or of any
of the proceedings in relation thereto is contested, questioned,
or denied shall be commenced within three months from the
2302              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               mj 1 > H75

date of the resolution forming such district; otherwise the
formation of the uninhabited improvement district and all
proceedings in relation thereto shall be held to be valid and
in every respect legal and incontestable.
   The board may advance general funds of the agency to
accomplish the purposes of an improvement district formed
pursuant to this law.
   The board may repay the agency for any advance of funds
from the proceeds of the sale of bonds authorized for the
purposes of the improvement district.
   SEC. 53. The board, by resolution, may initiate proceedings
for the annexation of territory within the agency whether con-
tiguous or not to an improvement district to such improvement
district.
   The resolution proposing annexation shall:
    (a) Declare that proceedings have been initiated by the
board pursuant to this law.
    (b) State the reason for proposing the annexation.
    (c) Set forth a description of the area proposed to be an-
nexed, which may be made by reference to a map on file with
the secretary of the agency which map shall govern for all de-
tails as to the extent of the area proposed to be annexed.
    (d) State the terms and conditions of the annexation.
    (e) State that the holders of title to any of the land sought
to be annexed may file written protests with the secretary to
the annexation or the annexation upon such terms and condi-
tions.
    (f) Fix the time and place of a meeting at which the board
will receive written protests theretofore filed with the secre-
tary, receive additional written protests, and hear from any
and all persons interested in the annexation.
   The text of the resolution proposing annexation shall be
published, pursuant to Section 6066 of the Government Code,
prior to the time of hearing in at least one newspaper printed
and published in the agency, if there is a newspaper published
and printed in the agency.
   A copy of the resolution proposing annexation shall also
be posted in three public places within the improvement dis-
trict and three public places in the area proposed to be an-
nexed at least two weeks prior to the hearing.
   The board shall proceed with the hearing at the time and
place fixed therefor and may continue the hearing, if need be,
from time to time. All interested persons will be heard at the
hearing.
   If written protests are filed by the holders of title of one-
half of the value of the territory proposed to be annexed as
shown by the last equalized assessment roll of each county in
which the territory is situated, further proceedings shall not
be taken, and the board shall refuse the annexation by a resolu-
tion so stating.
                    1969
Ch. 1175]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2303

   If written protest is not made by the owners of one-half of
the value of the territory proposed to be annexed, and if, at
the conclusion of the hearing, the board finds and determines
from the evidence presented at the hearing that the area pro-
posed to be annexed to an improvement district will be bene-
fited thereby, and that the improvement district to which the
area proposed to be annexed will also be benefited thereby and
will not be injured thereby, the board may, by resolution,
approve such annexation.
   The resolution shall describe the territory annexed, which
may be by reference to a map on file with the secretary, which
map shall govern for all details as to the extent of the annexed
area. The resolution shall also state the terms and conditions
of annexation as theretofore determined by resolution of the
board.
   If the board finds and determines that either the area pro-
posed to be annexed to the improvement district will not be
benefited thereby or that the improvement district to which
the area is proposed to be annexed will not be benefited thereby
and will be injured thereby, the board shall by resolution dis-
approve such annexation.
   From and after the date of the adoption of the resolution
approving the annexation, the area described therein is added
to and forms a part of the improvement district.
   The taxable property in the annexed area shall be subject
to taxation after the annexation thereof for the purposes of
the improvement district, including the payment of the prin-
cipal of and interest on bonds and other obligations of the
improvement district authorized and outstanding at the time
of the annexation as if the annexed property had always
been a part of the improvement district.
    The board may do all things necessary to enforce and make
effective the terms and conditions of annexation fixed by it.
    Any action or proceeding in which the validity of an an-
nexation to an improvement district pursuant to this section
is contested, questioned, or denied shall be commenced within
three months after the date of the resolution of the board
approving the annexation of the territory to an improvement
district; otherwise, the annexation shall be held valid and in
 every respect legal and incontestable.
    SEC. 53.1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 53, if
the petition for annexation of land to an improvement district
formed under Section 33 is signed by all of the holders of
title of land in the portion proposed to be annexed, the board
 may proceed and act thereon without notice and hearing, but
shall otherwise comply with the applicable provisions of this
law.
    SEC. 53.2. Proceedings to exclude territory from an im-
provement district, formed pursuant to Section 33, may be ini-
tiated by the board upon its own motion, or shall be initiated
by the board upon receipt of a petition for exclusion signed by
    73—1954
2304               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Qfa ^ 7 5

 not less than 10 percent of the voters of the area proposed to
 be excluded, which states reasons such exclusion will be bene-
 ficial to the agency or the improvement district or the terri-
 tory to be excluded.
    Upon adoption of said motion to initiate exclusion proceed-
 ings or upon receipt of said petition for exclusion, the board
 shall adopt a resolution of intention to exclude which shall
 state:
    (a) The method by which said exclusion proceedings were
 initiated; by motion of the board or by petition of voters.
    (b) That taxes for carrying out the purpose of the improve-
 ment district will not be levied upon taxable property in the
 excluded territory following such exclusion in the event such
 territory is excluded.
    (c) That following such exclusion, the taxable property in
 the territory remaining in said improvement district shall
 continue to be levied upon and taxed to provide funds for the
 purposes of said improvement district.
    The resolution of intention to exclude shall also state that a
 map showing the exterior boundaries of the proposed territory
 to be excluded, with relation to the territory remaining in
 said improvement district, is on file with the secretary and is
 available for inspection by any person or persons interested.
    This map shall govern for all details as to the extent of the
 proposed exclusion.
    The resolution of intention shall also state:
    (a) The time and place for a hearing by the board on the
 questions of the proposed exclusion and the effect of such ex-
 clusion upon the agency, the improvement district and the
 territory to be excluded.
    (b) That at such time and place any person interested, in-
cluding all persons owning property in the agency or in the
 improvement district, will be heard.
    Notice of the hearing shall be given by publishing a copy
of the resolution of intention to exclude, pursuant to Section
6066 of the Government Code, prior to the time fixed for the
hearing in a newspaper circulated in the agency, if there is a
newspaper printed and published in the agency. Such notice
shall also be given by posting a copy of the resolution of in-
tention to exclude in three public places within the affected
improvement district for at least two weeks before the time
fixed for the hearing.
    At the time and place so fixed in the resolution of intention
to exclude, or at any time or place to which the hearing is
adjourned, the board shall proceed with the hearing. At the
hearing any person interested, including any person owning
property in the agency, or in the improvement district may
appear and present any matters material to the questions set
forth in the resolution of intention to exclude.
   At the conclusion of the hearing, the board shall by resolu-
tion determine whether it is necessary or desirable to exclude
said territory. If so, the resolution shall also state:
                    1969
Ch. 1175]                  KEGUI/AK SESSION                  2305

    (a) The reasons why such exclusion is necessary or desir-
able.
    (b) That the exterior boundaries of the improvement dis-
trict following such exclusion are set forth on a map on file
with the secretary, which map shall govern all details as to
the extent of said, then existing, improvement district.
   The determinations made in the resolution of exclusion
shall be final and conclusive.
   After the exclusion of territory from the improvement dis-
trict pursuant to this section, all taxes levied for the carry-
ing out of said improvement district's purpose shall be levied
exclusively upon the taxable property in the improvement
district as then constituted.
   A copy of the resolution of exclusion shall be published pur-
suant to Section 6066 of the Government Code in a newspaper
printed and published in the agency, if there is a newspaper
printed and published in the agency. A copy of the resolution
shall also be posted in three public places within the improve-
ment district for at least two weeks.
   The resolution of exclusion shall not be effective until the
31st day after completion of the publication and posting.
   Any action or proceeding in which the validity of the ex-
clusion of territory from the improvement district or of any
of the proceedings in relation thereto is contested, questioned,
or denied shall be commenced within three months from the
effective date of the resolution of exclusion; otherwise, the
exclusion and all proceedings in relation thereto shall be held
to be valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.
   SEC. 54. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, when-
ever the board deems it necessary for any improvement district
formed pursuant to this act to be dissolved, it shall by resolu-
tion declare its intention to dissolve the improvement district.
   As used in this act, "improvement district" includes an un-
inhabited improvement district formed pursuant to Section 52.
   The resolution of intention shall state:
   (a) The reason why the improvement district should be dis-
solved.
   (b) If the improvement district was formed pursuant to
Section 29 or Section 52 of this act, that no bonds have been
issued for the improvement district or are outstanding.
   (c) If the improvement district was formed pursuant to
Section 33 of this act, that no indebtedness or liability was in-
curred for the improvement district or is outstanding.
    (d) That a map showing the exterior boundaries of the im-
provement district, with relation to the territory immediately
contiguous thereto, is on file with the secretary and is available
for inspection by any person or persons interested.
    (e) The time and place for a hearing by the board on the
question of the dissolution of the improvement district.
2306               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qh ^ 7 5

    (f) That at such time and place any person interested, in-
 cluding all persons owning property in the agency or in the im-
provement district will be heard.
    Notice of the hearing shall be given by publishing a copy
 of the resolution, pursuant to Section 6066 of the Government
 Code, prior to the time fixed for the hearing in a newspaper
 circulated in the agency, if there is a newspaper circulated in
the agency. Such notice shall also be given by posting a copy
 of the resolution in three public places within the improvement
 district for at least two weeks before the time fixed for the
hearing.
    At the time and place fixed in the resolution of intention,
 or at any time or place to which the hearing is adjourned,
the board shall proceed with the hearing. At the hearing any
 person interested, including all persons owning property in
the agency, or in the improvement district, may appear and
present any matters material to the proposed dissolution.
    At the conclusion of the hearing, the board shall by ordi-
nance determine whether it is necessary to dissolve the im-
provement district. If so, the ordinance shall state that the
exterior boundaries of the improvement district are set forth
 on a map on file with the secretary and shall declare the im-
provement district dissolved. The determinations made in the
ordinance shall be final and conclusive.
    When the ordinance declaring an improvement district dis-
 solved becomes effective, the dissolution of such improvement
 district is complete.
    The taxable property within the boundaries of the dissolved
improvement district shall continue to be taxed for any in-
debtedness of the agency contracted for such dissolved im-
provement district until the indebtedness has been satisfied, to
the same extent that such property would be taxable for such
purpose if the dissolution had not occurred.
    Any action or proceeding in which the validity of the dis-
solution of an improvement district, or of any of the proceed-
ings in relation thereto, is contested, questioned, or denied shall
be commenced within three months from the effective date of
the ordinance dissolving the improvement district; otherwise,
the dissolution of the improvement district and, all proceedings
in relation thereto, shall be held to be valid and in every respect
legal and incontestable.
   After a bond election has been held in an improvement dis-
trict formed pursuant to Section 29 of this law and less than
two-thirds of the votes east in such election were in favor of
the measure the board may within one year of the date of such
election call and hold another election as provided in Sections
28 and 29 of this law for the purpose of resubmitting said
measure to the electors of said improvement district. If said
measure is not so resubmitted said improvement district, on
the anniversary date of the election, is dissolved without fur-
ther action by the board. If said measure is resubmitted and
fails to receive more than two-thirds of the votes cast in such
                       1969
Ch. 1176]                     REGULAR SESSION                   g3Q7

election in favor of said measure said improvement district is
dissolved following the canvass of the election returns.
   SEC. 55. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   The area embraced within the boundaries of the proposed
Bighorn Mountains Water Agency has no integrated water
system. The homes located there now depend entirely on in-
dividual wells and some are even supplied water by trucks.
Unless the territory is organized into an agency capable of
finding solutions to its water problems at once, the value of the
property within its boundaries will be jeopardized and appli-
cations for loans and grants from the federal government to
construct a water distribution system may not materialize. It
is imperative that at the earliest possible time the area have a
representative agency to speak and act for it in the planning,
financing and construction of an adequate water system.


                          CHAPTER 1176
        An act to add Section 7019 to the Business and
          Professions Code, relating to contractors.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 7019 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7019. On or before December 31, 1969, the board shall pre-
scribe a form entitled "Notice to Owner" which shall describe
provisions of the state's mechanics' lien laws relating to the
filing of a contract concerning a work of improvement with
the county recorder and the recording in such office of a con-
tractor's payment bond for private work. Each contractor li-
censed under this chapter, prior to entering into a contract
after December 31, 1969, in excess of six hundred dollars
 ($600) with the owner of a single-family dwelling, a duplex,
or a triplex for work to be performed for the improvement of
property, shall give a copy of this "Notice to Owner" to the
owner. A contractor shall not, however, be required to provide
a copy of such form to the owner of property who is acting
in a capacity of a licensed general building contractor for
such improvement.
2308               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Qh   H77

                        CHAPTEE 1177
An act to amend Sections 56003.1, 56028, and 56039 of the
       Government Code, relating to city annexation.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 56003.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   56003.1. Except as provided in this section, this division
shall have no application to the incorporation of cities, the
annexation or detachment of territory to or from cities, minor
changes of city boundaries or the consolidation or disincorpora-
tion of cities or to the formation of districts (except when any
such formation is a part of a reorganization) or to proceedings
for any of the foregoing. An annexation to a city which is
proposed as a part of a plan of reorganization may be con-
ducted in accordance with the procedures for reorganization
set forth in this division unless the affected city objects
thereto. In any commission order giving approval to any of
the matters provided for in subdivision (a) of Section 56250,
the commission may make any such approval conditional upon:
    (a) The initiation, conduct or completion of proceedings for
the incorporation of any city, the annexation or detachment of
territory to or from any city, the consolidation of any cities or
the disincorporation of any city or for the formation of any
district; and
    (b) The approval or disapproval, with or without election,
as may be provided by law, of any resolution or ordinance
ordering any such incorporation, annexation, detachment, con-
solidation, disincorporation or formation of a district.
   If a commission shall so condition its approval, the commis-
sion may order that any further action pursuant to this divi-
sion shall be continued and held in abeyance for such period
of time as the commission may designate, not to exceed six
months from the date of such conditional approval.
   Any such commission order may also provide that any elec-
tion called upon the question of confirming a change of orga-
nization or a reorganization pursuant to the provisions of this
division shall be called, held and conducted before, upon the
same date as, or after the date of any election to be called, held
and conducted upon the incorporation of any city, the annexa-
tion or detachment of territory to or from any city, the con-
solidation of any cities or the disincorporation of any city or
upon the formation of any district.
   SEC. 2. Section 56028 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56028. "Change of organization" means an annexation or
detachment of territory to or from a district, a minor boundary
            1
                       1969
Ch. 11781                     REGULAR SESSION                     2309

 change, the dissolution or consolidation of any district or
 districts, a merger or the establishment of a subsidiary district,
 and, in the case of a reorganization, also includes formations
 and annexations to cities when the affected cities do not object
to such annexations.
   SEC. 3. Section 56039 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56039. " D i s t r i c t " means an agency of the state, formed
pursuant to general law or special act, for the local perform-
ance of governmental or proprietary functions within limited
boundaries. " D i s t r i c t " shall include a county service area but
shall exclude the following:
   (a) The state;
   (b) A county;
    (c) A city, except for the provisions of this division relat-
ing to a merger, the establishment of a subsidiary district, or
a reorganization which includes an annexation to a city when
the affected city does not object to such annexation;
   (d) A school district;
   (e) A unified or union high school library district;
   (f) A special assessment district ;
   (g) An improvement district ;
   (h) A soil conservation district;
   (i) An air pollution control district ;
   (j) A bridge and highway district or a joint highway dis-
trict ;
   (k) A transit or rapid transit district or authority;
   (I) A metropolitan water district;
   (m) A flood control district, a flood control and floodwater
conservation district, a flood control and water conservation
district, a conservation district, a water conservation district,
a water replenishment district, the Orange County Water Dis-
trict, a California water storage district, a water agency, a
county water authority or a water authority, provided, that
the commission of the principal county shall determine, in ac-
cordance with Sections 56015 and 56016 inclusive, that any
district, agency or authority enumerated in this subdivision
 (m) is not a " d i s t r i c t " within the meaning of this division.


                          CHAPTER 1178
An act to add Sections 15955.1 and 16803.2 to the Education
  Code, relating to school property and equipment, and de-
  claring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2310               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Gh. 1179

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 15955.1 is added to the Education
Code, to read:
  15955.1. Contracts for the rental, lease, or lease-purchase
of motor vehicles, other than schoolbuses, equipment or sys-
tems to be furnished, built or installed for the district may
be made for a period not to exceed five years, such contracts
to be renewable at the option of the district for an additional
period not to exceed five years; provided, that rate of the
renewal contract is not greater than the rate set in the exist-
ing contract. For the sole purpose of identifying that portion
of each annual rental or lease payment which may represent
tax exempt reimbursement to the vendor, lessor or their as-
signees, bidders may include in their bids abstractions of their
quotations indicating the pricing structure used to compute
the annual rental or lease payments.
   SEC. 2. Section 16803.2 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   16803.2. I n bidding on contracts to be made pursuant to
Section 16803, bidders may include in their bids abstractions
of their quotations indicating the pricing structure used to
compute the annual lease or rental payments for the sole pur-
pose of identifying that portion of each annual lease or rental
payment which may represent tax exemption reimbursement
to the vendor, lessor or to their assignees.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
   Unless this act takes effect immediately, school districts will
be unable to obtain the lower lease and rental rates available
to them if that portion of such rates which reflects tax exempt
reimbursement is clearly delineated in bid and contract docu-
ments relating to the rental, lease, or lease-purchase of motor
vehicles, equipment and systems. In the absence of this pro-
vision, the higher costs of these types of contracts will have
to be borne by the taxpayers of the state and of the local
school districts.


                         CHAPTER 1179

   An act to amend Section 387 of the Streets and Highways
               Code, relating to state highways.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
                        1969
 Ch. 1180]                     REGULAR SESSION                           2311

 The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 387 of the Streets and Highways Code
 is amended to read:
    387. Route 87 is from:
    (a) Route 85 in the vicinity of Pearl Avenue to Route 101
in the vicinity of Guadalupe River. Notwithstanding the pro-
visions of Section 89 of Chapter 1062 of the Statutes of 1959,
construction of all or any portion of subdivision (a) of Route
 87 may be commenced at any time, if the City of San Jose
and the County of Santa Clara has conveyed or does convey
to the State of California, without charge, all real property
presently acquired by it for the construction of said subdivi-
sion (a) of this route or such portion thereof.
    (b) San Jose easterly of the Bayshore Freeway to Route
230.
    (c) Route 230 to Route 280 in San Francisco.
    Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 89 of Chapter
1062 of the Statutes of 1959, construction of all or any por-
tion of subdivision (c) of Route 87 may be commenced at any
time, if the City and County of San Francisco has conveyed
or does convey to the State of California, without charge, all
real property presently acquired by it for the construction
of said subdivision (c) of this route or such portion thereof.


                           CHAPTER 1180
     An act to amend Section 8054 of the Education               Code,
                  relating to course of study.
             [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                    Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8054 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   8054. The course of study for preschool, kindergarten,
grades 1 through 6, and grades 7 and 8 of those elementary
districts maintaining grades 7 and 8, shall be prescribed and
enforced by the governing board. The governing board of any
school district may cooperate with the county board of educa-
tion and the county superintendent of schools in the develop-
ment of the courses of study required by this section.
   The development of any course of study by a school district
governing board which involves the cooperation of the county
board of education and the county superintendent of schools
is a proper charge against whatever funds the county superin-
tendent of schools may have for this purpose.
2312               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQ^   ^81

                        CHAPTER 1181
An act to amend Sections 30801, 30803, and 30805 of, and to
  add Section 30806 to, the Agricultural Code, relating to dog
  licenses.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 30801 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
    30801. If 25 electors whose names appear upon the last
preceding assessment roll of the county as owners of domestic
livestock file a petition with the board of supervisors of the
county which requests the board to do so, the board of super-
visors shall provide for the annual issuance of serially num-
bered metallic dog license tags. The dog license tags shall be:
    (a) Stamped with the name of the county and the year of
issue.
    (b) Unless the board of supervisors designates the animal
control department to issue the tags, issued by the county clerk
directly or through judges of justice or municipal courts, to
owners of dogs, that make application.
    SEC. 2. Section 30803 of the Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
    30803. The county clerk or animal control department shall
endorse upon the application for a dog license tag the number
of the license tag issued.
    All applications which have been endorsed shall be kept on
file in the office of the county clerk or animal control depart-
ment open to public inspection.
    SEC. 3. Section 30805 of the Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
    30805. The board of supervisors shall fix the compensation
of the county clerk or animal control department for issuing
dog license tags.
    SEC. 4. Section 30806 is added to the Agricultural Code, to
read:
    30806. In any county that does not have an animal control
department, the county clerk shall perform the functions as-
signed to the county animal control department in this
chapter.

                        CHAPTER 1182

   An act to amend Section 50023 of the Government Code,
             relating to powers of local agencies.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
                       1969
Ch. 11831                     REGULAR SESSION                   2313

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 50023 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   50023. The legislative body of a local agency, directly or
through a representative, may attend the Legislature and Con-
gress, and any committees thereof, and present information to
aid the passage of legislation which the legislative body deems
beneficial to the local agency or to prevent the passage of legis-
lation which the legislative body deems detrimental to the local
agency. The legislative body of a local agency, directly or
through a representative, may meet with representatives of
executive or administrative agencies of state, federal, or local
government to present information requesting action which
the legislative body deems beneficial to, or opposing action
deemed detrimental to, such local agency. The cost and expense
incident thereto are proper charges against the local agency.


                          CHAPTER 1183
An act to amend the heading of Article 7 (commencing with
  Section 7565) of Chapter 11 of Division 3 of, and to repeal
  Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 7544) of Chapter 11
  of Division 3 of, the Business and Professions Code, relating
  to private detectives.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 7544) of
Chapter 11 of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 2. The heading of Article 7 (commencing with Sec-
tion 7565) of Chapter 11 of Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code is amended to read:

       Article 7.     Expiration and Renewal of Licenses
                             and Cards
2314                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Q^   ;Q84

                         CHAPTER 1184
  An act to amend Section 69903 of the Government                Code,
             relating to superior court attache's.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69903 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
   69903. I n any county with a population of less than 1,000,-
 000 but more than 800,000 as determined by the 1960 federal
 census, the superior court shall appoint an administrative offi-
 cer, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the court, and shall
 act as secretary to the judges of the superior court and perform
 the duties of jury commissioner and shall exercise such other
 administrative duties as may be required of him by the court.
 The court shall fix the qualifications of the administrative offi-
 cer and may delegate to him any administrative powers and
 duties as are now or may hereafter by law be vested in or
 required to be exercised by the court. The salary of the ad-
 ministrative officer shall be fixed by the court at not more than
 one thousand nine hundred twenty-nine dollars ($1,929) per
month.
   I n such a county the court and secretary may have to assist
 them in the performance of their duties the following em-
 ployees :
    (a) Two legal research assistants, who shall be members
 of the bar, who shall receive a salary of not less than four
hundred dollars ($400) nor more than one thousand two hun-
dred dollars ($1,200) a month,
    (b) One senior administrative assistant-deputy jury com-
missioner, who shall receive a salary of not less than three
hundred dollars ($300) nor more than nine hundred ninety-
eight dollars ($998) a month,
   (e) One administrative assistant-deputy jury commissioner,
who shall receive a salary of not less than three hundred dol-
lars ($300) nor more than eight hundred forty-one dollars
 ($841) a month,
    (d) Two senior clerk-deputy jury commissioners, who shall
receive a salary of not less than three hundred dollars ($300)
nor more than six hundred seventy-six dollars ($676) a month,
   (e) Five secretary-deputy j u r y commissioners, who shall
receive a salary of not less than three hundred dollars ($300)
nor more than six hundred thirteen dollars ($613) a month,
   (f) Three clerks, who shall receive a salary of not less than
three hundred dollars ($300) nor more than five hundred fifty-
six dollars ($556) a month,
                       1969
Ch. 1185]                     REGULAR SESSION                       2315

   (g) One jury payroll and assembly room supervisor-deputy
jury commissioner who shall receive a salary of not less than
three hundred dollars ($300) nor more than six hundred sev-
enty-six dollars ($676) a month.
   Such employees shall be appointed by the secretary with
the approval of a majority of the judges of the superior court
of such county. Bach such position shall be exempt from civil
service laws. The salaries of such persons shall be fixed by a
majority of the judges of the superior court of such county.
The salaries of such secretary and other employees of the su-
perior court shall be paid by the county in which they serve.


                          CHAPTER 1185
        An act to amend Section 2633 of the Business and
         Professions Code, relating to physical therapy.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2633 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   2633. A person holding a license as a physical therapist
issued by the board may use the title "physical therapist" or
the letters " P . T . " or any other words, letters or figures which
indicate that the person using same is a licensed physical
therapist. No other person shall be so designated or shall use
the term licensed or registered physical therapist, licensed or
registered physiotherapist, licensed or registered physical
therapy technician, or the letters " L . P . T . , " " E . P . T . , " or
" P . T . " The license as a physical therapist shall not authorize
the use of the prefix " D r . , " the word " d o c t o r , " or any suffix
or affix indicating or implying that the licensed person is a
doctor or a physician or surgeon.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a licentiate
of this chapter may use an initial or other suffix indicating
possession of a specific academic degree earned at, and issued
by, an institution accredited by the Western Association of
Schools and Colleges or any accrediting agency recognized by
the National Commission on Accrediting which the board de-
termines is equivalent, except that the initials " M . D . " shall
not be used unless such licentiate is licensed as a physician
and surgeon in this state.
2316               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Qfo, \\gQ

                        CHAPTER 1186
An act to amend Section 118 of the Streets and Highways
         Code, relating to the sale of state property.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 118 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   118. Whenever the department determines that any real
property or interest therein, heretofore or hereafter acquired
by the state for highway purposes, is no longer necessary for
such purposes, the department may sell, contract to sell, sell
by trust deed, or exchange such real property or interest
therein in the manner and upon terms, standards, and condi-
tions established by the commission. The payment period in
any such contract of sale or sale by trust deed shall not extend
longer than 10 years from the time such contract of sale or
trust deed is executed, and any such transaction involving a
contract of sale or sale by trust deed to private parties shall
require a down payment of at least 50 percent of the purchase
price. Any such conveyance shall be approved by the commis-
sion and shall be executed on behalf of the state by the direc-
tor and the purchase price shall be paid into the State Treas-
ury to the credit of any fund, available to the department for
highway purposes, which the commission designates.
   Any such real property or interest therein may in like man-
ner be exchanged, either as whole or part consideration, for
any other real property or interest therein needed for state
highway purposes.

                        CHAPTER 1187
  An act to amend Section 68097.2 of the Government Code,
              relating to witnesses in civil cases.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 68097.2 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  68097.2. Any member of the California Highway Patrol,
sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal or city police-
man who is obliged by a subpoena issued pursuant to Section
68097.1 to attend as a witness, shall receive the salary or other
compensation to which he is normally entitled from the public
entity by which he is employed during the time that he travels
to and from the place where the court or other tribunal is
                    1969
Ch. 11871                  REGULAR SESSION                  2317

 located and while he is required to remain at such place pur-
 suant to such subpoena. He shall also receive from the public
 entity by which he is employed the actual necessary and
 reasonable traveling expenses incurred by him in complying
 with such subpoena.
    The party at whose request such subpoena is issued shall
reimburse the public entity the amount of twenty-five dollars
  ($25) per day for each day that such officer is required to re-
main in attendance pursuant to such subpoena. The amount of
twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be deposited with the clerk of
 the court or with the tribunal prior to the issuance of a sub-
poena pursuant to this section.
    If the actual expenses should later prove to be less than the
amount deposited, the excess of the amount deposited shall be
refunded.
    If a court continues a proceeding on its own motion, no
additional deposit may be required prior to the issuance of
a subpoena or the making of an order directing such officer to
appear on the date to which the proceeding is continued.
    SEC. 2. Section 68097.2 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    68097.2. Any member of the California Highway Patrol,
sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal or city police-
man who is obliged by a subpoena issued pursuant to Sec-
tion 68097.1 to attend as a witness, shall receive the salary or
 other compensation to which he is normally entitled from
 the public entity by which he is employed during the time
 that he travels to and from the place where the court or other
 tribunal is located and while he is required to remain at such
place pursuant to such subpoena. He shall also receive from
 the public entity by which he is employed the actual necessary
 and reasonable traveling expenses incurred by him in com-
plying with such subpoena.
    The party at whose request such subpoena is issued shall
reimburse the public entity the amount of forty-five dollars
 ($45) per day for each day that such officer is required to
remain in attendance pursuant to such subpoena. The amount
of forty-five dollars ($45) shall be deposited with the clerk
of the court or with the tribunal prior to the issuance of a
subpoena pursuant to this section.
    If the actual expenses should later prove to be less than
the amount deposited, the excess of the amount deposited shall
be refunded.
    If a court continues a proceeding on its own motion, no
additional deposit may be required prior to the issuance of a
subpoena or the making of an order directing such officer to
appear on the date to which the proceeding is continued.
    SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall become operative only
if Senate Bill No. 466 is enacted by the Legislature at its 1969
Regular Session, and in such case at the same time as Senate
Bill No. 466 takes effect; at which time Section 1 of this act
is repealed.
2318               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1188

                        CHAPTER 1188
          An act to amend Section 12050 of the Penal
                   Code, relating to firearms.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 12050 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12050. The sheriff of a county or the chief or other head of
a municipal police department of any city or city and county,
upon proof that the person applying is of good moral charac-
ter, that good cause exists for the issuance, and that the person
applying is a resident of the county, may issue to such person
a license to carry concealed a pistol, revolver, or other firearm
for a period of one year from the date of the license.


                        C H A P T E E 1189
   An act to amend Section 2982 of the Civil Code, relating
           to automobile conditional sales contracts.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2982 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   2982. (a) Every conditional sale contract for the sale of a
motor vehicle, with or without accessories, shall be in writing
and, if printed, shall be printed in type no smaller than six
point, and shall contain in a single document all of the agree-
ments of the buyer and seller with respect to the total cost
and the terms of payment for the motor vehicle, including any
promissory notes or any other evidences of indebtedness. The
conditional sale contract or a purchase order shall be signed by
the buyer or his authorized representative and by the seller
or its authorized representative, and an exact copy thereof
shall be furnished the buyer by the seller at the time the buyer
and the seller have signed the contract or purchase order. No
motor vehicle shall be delivered under this chapter until the
seller delivers to the buyer a fully executed copy of the condi-
tional sale contract or purchase order and any vehicle purchase
proposal and any credit statement which the seller has re-
quired or requested the buyer to sign, and which he has signed,
during the contract negotiations. The seller shall not obtain
the signature of the buyer to a contract when it contains blank
spaces to be filled in after it has been signed. Every condi-
                     1969   RBGUIJAI1
Ch, 11891                               SESSION              2319

 tional sale contract shall contain, although not necessarily in
 the sequence or order set forth below, the following separate
 items:
    1. The cash price of the motor vehicle described in the con-
ditional sale contract.
    2. The amount of the buyer's down payment, and whether
 made in cash or represented by the net agreed value of de-
 scribed property traded in, or both, together with a statement
 of the respective amounts credited for cash and for such prop-
erty.
    3. The amount unpaid on the cash price, which is the differ-
ence between Items 1 and 2.
    4. The cost to the buyer of any insurance, the premium for
which is included in the contract balance. Any such cost for
credit life or disability insurance may be included in the fi-
nance charge if the amount thereof is separately stated on
the face of the contract.
    5. The amount of the unpaid balance, which is the sum of
Items 3 and 4.
   6. The amount of the finance charge.
   7. The contract balance owed by the buyer to the seller,
which is the sum of Items 5 and 6.
    8. The number of installments required to pay the contract
balance, the amount of each installment, and the date for pay-
ment of the installments.
   9. The names and addresses of all persons to whom the
notice required under Section 2983.2 and permitted under Sec-
tions 2983.5 and 2984 of this code is to be sent.
   10. A notice, in at least eight-point bold type if the contract
is printed, reading as follows: "Notice to the buyer: (1) Do
not sign this agreement before you read it or if it contains any
blank spaces to be filled in. (2) You are entitled to a com-
pletely filled-in copy of this agreement. (3) Under the law,
you have the right to pay off in advance the full amount due
and under certain conditions to obtain a partial refund of the
finance charge. (4) If you default in the performance of your
obligations under this agreement, the vehicle may be repos-
sessed and you may be subject to suit and liability for the
unpaid indebtedness evidenced by this agreement."
    (b) If any charge for insurance (other than for credit life
or disability) is included in the contract balance and disburse-
ment of any part thereof be made more than one year after
the date of the conditional sale contract, any finance charge
on the amount to be disbursed after one year shall be com-
puted from the month the disbursement is to be made to the
due date of the last installment under the conditional sale
contract.
    (c) The amount of the finance charge in any conditional
sale contract for the sale of a motor vehicle, with or without
accessories, shall not exceed 1 percent of the unpaid balance
multiplied by the number of months (computed on the basis
2320               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQ]1_ J j g Q

of a full month for any fractional month period in excess of
15 days) elapsing between the date of the contract and the
due date of the last installment, or twenty-five dollars ($25),
whichever is greater. The contract may provide for a delin-
quency charge or charges on any installment in default for a
period of not less than 10 days in an amount not to exceed in
the aggregate 5 percent of the installment, which amount may
be collected only once on any installment regardless of the
period during which it remains in default. The contract may
provide for reasonable collection costs and fees in the event
of delinquency.
    (d) Any provision in any conditional sale contract for the
sale of a motor vehicle to the contrary notwithstanding, the
buyer shall have the privilege of paying at any time in full
the indebtedness evidenced by the contract. Whenever an in-
debtedness is liquidated prior to maturity by prepayment or
refinancing, or upon surrender or repossession and resale of
the motor vehicle, the holder shall thereupon refund to the
buyer the unearned portion of the finance charge. The refund
may be made in cash or credited to the amount due on the
obligation of the buyer. The amount of the refund shall repre-
sent at least as great a proportion of the finance charge, after
first deducting therefrom twenty-five dollars ($25), as the
sum of the periodic time balances payable more than 15 days
after the date of prepayment (or other event entitling the
buyer to the refund) bears to the sum of all of the periodic
time balances under the schedule of installments in the con-
tract. The provisions of this subdivision shall not impair the
right of the seller or his assignee to receive delinquency
charges on delinquent installments and reasonable costs and
fees as provided in subdivision (c) of this section. "Where the
amount of such refund is less than one dollar ($1), no refund
need be made.

                        CHAPTER 1190
An act to amend Section 70 of the Streets and Highways Code,
        relating to the California Highway Commission.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 70 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
  70. There is in the department the California Highway
Commission, consisting of seven members. The chairman of the
commission shall be selected by a majority vote of the members
thereof and shall serve for one year. Said term shall com-
mence on a date to be determined by rule of the commission,
provided that no member shall serve as chairman for more
                       1969
Ch. 1191]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2321

than two successive terms. The Governor shall nominate and,
with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint the
members of the commission. Except as provided in Section
70.1, the members shall hold office for terms of four years and
until their successors are appointed and qualify. The members
shall receive their actual and necessary traveling expenses in-
curred in the discharge of their duties. Each member of the
commission shall take the oath of office prescribed for other
state officers. The Director of Public Works shall not be a
member of the commission but shall serve as administrative of-
ficer thereof and may act for the chairman of the commission
in administrative matters. He shall prepare or cause to be
prepared the agenda for all meetings of the commission and
may, as necessary, call meetings of the commission. The divi-
sions shall transmit their recommendations affecting the activi-
ties of the commission directly to the director. He shall have
final authority and responsibility to make such recommenda-
tions, but he shall transmit the recommendations of the divi-
sions to the commission along with his own. The director shall
comment on all recommendations made to the commission by
the divisions when he deems the recommendation to be of major
importance, or when he deems it desirable, or when requested
so to do by the commission or any member thereof.



                          CHAPTER 1191
An act to add Article 3 (commencing with Section 24320) to
  Chapter 6 of Part 11 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Tax-
  ation Code, relating to the hank and corporation tax.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 3 (commencing with Section 24320) is
added to Chapter 6 of Part 11 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, to read:

                   Article 3.    Other Exclusions
   24320. Income derived from the operation of aircraft or a
ship or ships by a corporation organized under the laws of a
foreign country shall not be included in gross income, and
shall be exempt from the taxes imposed by this part if:
   (a) The aircraft are registered or the ships are documented
under the laws of the foreign country;
   (b) The income of the corporation is exempt from national
income taxes by reason of a treaty or agreement between such
foreign country and the United States which provides for an
equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the United
States; and
2322                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. H 9 2

   (e) Units of government (other than at the national level)
within such foreign country do not impose a tax upon corpo-
rations organized in the United States with respect to income
derived from the operation of aircraft registered or ships docu-
mented under the laws of the United States.
   24321. Notwithstanding any statute, ordinance, regulation,
rule or decision to the contrary, no city, county, city and
county, governmental subdivision, district, public and quasi-
public corporation, municipal corporation, whether incorpo-
rated or not or whether chartered or not, shall levy or collect
or cause to be levied or collected any tax upon income which
is excludable from gross income and exempt from state taxes
pursuant to Section 24320.
   This section shall not be construed to authorize any such
entity to levy a tax on, according to, or measured by, income
or profits paid or accrued.

                         CHAPTER 1192
        An act to amend Section 1802.6 of the Civil Code,
            relating to retail installment contracts.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1802.6 of the Civil Code is amended
 to read:
   1802.6. "Retail installment contract" or " c o n t r a c t " means
 any contract for a retail installment sale between a buyer
 and seller, entered into or performed in this state, which pro-
 vides for (a) repayment in installments, whether or not such
contract contains a title retention provision, and in which a
time price differential is computed upon and added to the un-
paid balance at the time of sale or where no time price differ-
ential is added but the goods or services are available at a lesser
price if paid by cash or where the buyer, if he had paid cash,
would have received any additional goods or services or any
higher quality goods or services at no added cost over the total
amount he pays in installments, or (b) which provides for
payment in four or more installments. When taken or given in
connection with a retail installment sale, the term includes but
is not limited to a security agreement and a contract for the
bailment or leasing of goods by which the bailee or lessee con-
tracts to pay as compensation for their use a sum substantially
equivalent to or in excess of their value and by which it is
agreed that the bailee or lessee is bound to become, or has the
option of becoming, the owner of the goods upon full compli-
ance with the terms of the contract.
                       1969
Ch. 1193]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2323

                          CHAPTER 1193
An act to add Article 9 (commencing with Section 1850) to
  Chapter 1 of Division 2.5 of the Welfare and    Institutions
  Code, relating to juvenile rehabilitation, and making an
  appropriation.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 9 (commencing with Section 1850) is
added to Chapter 1 of Division 2.5 of the Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:

             Article 9.       Youth Correctional Centers
    1850. The purpose of this article is to protect society more
effectively by providing a system of flexible constraints and
 controls that utilize short-term confinement for selected youth-
ful offenders, followed by intensive probation supervision. To
this end it is the intent of the Legislature that this article be
liberally interpreted in conformity with its declared purpose.
   1851. I n order to provide appropriate facilities for the
rehabilitative treatment of young offenders who otherwise may
be committed to the Department of the Youth Authority or
the Department of Corrections, and in order to provide this
treatment in the community where family and personal rela-
tionships can be strengthened rather than severed, and in
order to provide a range of alternative dispositions to the
courts before whom young offenders appear, and in order to
provide opportunities for private citizens to contribute ac-
tively to the rehabilitation of offenders in their own neighbor-
hood, youth correctional centers may be established by ordi-
nance by boards of supervisors of any county, as provided in
this article.
   1852. Complete operation and authority for administra-
tion of the youth correctional center shall be vested in the
county. The board of supervisors shall place responsibility for
internal management with the chief probation officer.
   1853. Juvenile court wards and criminal offenders eligible
for probation may be committed to youth correctional centers
as a condition of probation, provided they come within all of
the following descriptions:
      (1) Who have not, at the time of commitment, reached
   the age of 25 years.
      (2) Who have not been found guilty of a capital offense
   in a criminal proceeding.
      (3) Who have been declared a ward of the juvenile court
   pursuant to Section 602, Welfare and Institutions Code, or
   who have been found guilty in a criminal proceeding of one
2324              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1193

   or more public offenses where the maximum term of con-
   finement is not less than six months if the sentences run
   consecutively.
      (4) Whose rehabilitation and reformation requires short-
   term confinement followed by intensive probation super-
   vision.
The juvenile court may in its discretion commit any eligible
ward of the juvenile court to the youth correctional center
program and any criminal court may in its discretion commit
any eligible offender to the youth correctional center program
as a condition of probation, except that no commitment shall
be placed into effect until the chief probation officer has cer-
tified to the committing court that the youth correctional
center has adequate facilities to provide rehabilitative treat-
ment for the offender.
    1854. While under commitment to the youth correctional
center, the offender is subject to the control of the chief pro-
bation officer. The offender may be confined to the center at
all times; he may be released for brief periods to work, attend
school, or engage in educational or recreational pursuits; or
he may be allowed to live in the community and return to
the center for specific services as directed by the chief proba-
tion officer.
    1855. Earnings of offenders who reside in the center and
work in the community shall be collected by the chief proba-
tion officer. From such earnings the chief probation officer may
pay the offender's board and personal expenses and such ad-
ministrative costs as are allocable to him. Any balance may
be paid periodically to the offender as deemed appropriate by
the chief probation officer. Upon the offender's release from
juvenile court wardship or termination of his probation, all
funds credited to his account shall be paid to him.
    1856. When in the opinion of the chief probation officer
an offender appears to be unamenable to the program of the
youth correctional center, he shall be returned to the commit-
ting court for further disposition. The court shall then make
an alternative disposition.
    1857. The Youth Authority shall adopt and prescribe the
minimum standards of construction, operation, programs of
education or rehabilitative training or treatment, and qualifi-
cations of personnel for youth correctional centers established
pursuant to this article. No county establishing or conducting
such a youth correctional center shall be entitled to receive
any state funds provided for in this article unless and until
the minimum standards and qualifications referred to in this
section are complied with by such county.
   1858. No youth correctional center established pursuant to
this article shall be planned to accommodate more than 350
youths under supervision at any one time. Any youth correc-
tional center that consistently exceeds this capacity shall be
ineligible to receive subsidy funds.
                    l969
Ch. 1193]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2325

   1859. Where any such youth correctional center is estab-
lished, and where the minimum standards and qualifications
provided for in Section 1857 have been complied with by the
county, the State of California through the Youth Authority,
out of any money appropriated for this purpose, shall reim-
burse the county at the rate of two hundred dollars ($200)
per month per person being supervised by the youth correc-
tional center during the first six months of such person's first-
time participation in the center program. This amount shall
be adjusted annually, upward or downward, by the Director
of Finance in accordance with the proportionate increase or
decrease in per capita costs for supervising Youth Authority
wards in institutions and on parole.
   Whenever a claim made by a county pursuant to this section
covering a prior fiscal year is found to have been in error,
adjustment may be made on a current claim without necessity
of applying the adjustment to the appropriation for the prior
fiscal year.
   1860. (a) From any state moneys made available to it for
that purpose, the Youth Authority shall share in the cost
pursuant to this article of the construction of youth correc-
tional centers established by counties which apply therefor.
   (b) "Construction" as used in this section includes con-
struction of new buildings and acquisition of existing build-
ings and initial equipment of any such buildings, and, to the
extent provided for in regulations adopted by the Department
of the Youth Authority, remodeling of existing buildings owned
by the county, to serve as a youth correctional center, and
initial equipment thereof. It does not include architects' fees
or the cost of land acquisition.
   (c) The amount of state assistance which shall be provided
to any county shall not exceed 50 percent of the project cost
approved by the Youth Authority and in no event shall it
exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000) per offender the pro-
gram is designed to accommodate.
   (d) Application for state assistance for construction funds
under this article shall be made to the Youth Authority in
the manner and form prescribed by the Youth Authority, and
the Youth Authority shall prescribe the time and manner of
payment of state assistance, if granted.
   1861. The Department of the Youth Authority shall re-
port to the Legislature no later than the fifth legislative day
of the 1974 Regular Session on the experiences and the results
under the provisions of this article. Pending review by the
Legislature of such report, the state shall not participate fi-
nancially in the establishment of more than four youth cor-
rectional centers.
   SEC. 2. In order to further reduce commitments to Youth
Authority institutions by means of coordinated delinquency
prevention efforts at the community level, there is hereby ap-
propriated from the General F u n d to the Department of the
 2326               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQ^. H 9 4

 Youth Authority the sum of one hundred thousand dollars
 ($100,000) to defray expenses, including the salaries of co-
 ordinators, incurred to carry out the program in Section 1902
 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.


                         CHAPTER 1194
          An act to amend Sections 1305 and 1306 of the
                   Penal Code, relating to hail.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

 The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

     SECTION 1. Section 1305 of the Penal Code is amended to
 read:
     1305. (a) If, without sufficient excuse, the defendant ne-
 glects to appear for arraignment or for trial or judgment, or
 upon any other occasion when his presence in court is lawfully
 required, or to surrender himself in execution of the judgment,
 the court shall direct the fact to be entered upon its minutes
 and the undertaking of bail, or the money deposited instead of
 bail, as the case may be, shall thereupon be declared for-
 feited, and, if the amount of the forfeiture exceeds fifty dol-
 lars ($50), the clerk of the court shall, promptly upon entering
 the fact of such failure to appear in the minutes, mail notice of
 the forfeiture to the surety on the bond or depositor of money
 instead of a bond, and shall execute an affidavit of such mail-
 ing and place it in the court's file in the case. If the surety is
 an authorized corporate surety insurer, and if the bond has
 plainly printed or stamped thereon the address of its principal
 office in California, such notice shall be mailed to such surety
 at such address, and mailing to the bail agent or solicitor who
posted the bond shall not constitute compliance with this
section; the clerk shall at the same time send a copy of such
notice to the bail agent or solicitor who posted the bond. If
the clerk fails to mail such notice within 30 days after such
entry, the surety or depositor shall be released from all obli-
gations under the bond. B u t if at any time within 180 days
after such entry in the minutes or, if mailing of notice of
forfeiture is required, within 180 days after mailing such
notice of forfeiture, the defendant and his bail appear, and
satisfactorily excuse the defendant's neglect or show to the
satisfaction of the court that the absence of the defendant was
not with the connivance of the bail, the court shall direct the
forfeiture of the undertaking or the deposit to be discharged
upon such terms as may be just. If within said 180 days after
such entry in the minutes or mailing as the case may be, it be
made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that the de-
fendant is dead or is physically unable, by reason of illness or
                    1969
Ch. 11941                  REGULAR SESSION                   2327

insanity, or by reason of detention by civil or military authori-
ties, to appear in court at any time during said 180 days, and
that the absence of the defendant was not with the connivance
of the bail, the court shall direct the forfeiture of the under-
taking or the deposit to be discharged upon such terms as may
be just. If at any time within said 180 days after such entry
in the minutes or mailing as the case may be, the surety in-
surer, its bail agent, the surety, or depositor of money instead
of a bond should surrender the defendant to the court or to
custody, then, upon seven days' written notice to the district
attorney or representative of the people by the bail agent of
the surety insurer, such surety, or such depositor, any of whom
may give such notice and appear either in person or by at-
torney, or by the surety insurer, through its attorney, the
court shall direct such fact to be entered upon its minutes and
the forfeiture of the undertaking or the deposit shall be dis-
charged upon such terms as may be just.
    (b) If, without sufficient excuse, the defendant neglects to
appear for arraignment, trial, judgment, or upon any other
occasion when his presence in court is lawfully required, or to
surrender himself in execution of the judgment, but the court
has reason to believe that sufficient excuse may exist for his
neglect to appear or surrender himself, the court may continue
the case for such period as it deems reasonable to enable the
defendant to appear without ordering a forfeiture of bail or
issuing a bench warrant.
   SEC. 2. Section 1305 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   1305. (a) If, without sufficient excuse, the defendant ne-
glects to appear for arraignment or for trial or judgment, or
upon any other occasion when his presence in court is lawfully
required, or to surrender himself in execution of the judgment,
the court shall direct the fact to be entered upon its min-
utes and the undertaking of bail, or the money deposited instead
of bail, as the case may be, shall thereupon be declared for-
feited, and, if the amount of the forfeiture exceeds fifty dollars
 ($50), the clerk of the court shall, promptly upon entering the
fact of such failure to appear in the minutes, mail notice of
the forfeiture to the surety on the bond or depositor of money
 instead of a bond, and shall execute an affidavit of such mail-
 ing and place it in the court's file in the case. If the surety is
 an authorized corporate surety insurer, and if the bond has
plainly printed or stamped thereon the address of its principal
office in California, such notice shall be mailed to such surety
 at such address, and mailing to the bail agent or solicitor who
posted the bond shall not constitute compliance with this
section; the clerk shall at the same time send a copy of such
notice to the bail agent or solicitor who posted the bond.
 If the clerk fails to mail such notice within 30 days after such
 entry, the surety or depositor shall be released from all obli-
 gations under the bond. But if at any time within 180 days
2328              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfa HQ4-

after such entry in the minutes or, if mailing of notice of
forfeiture is required, within 180 days after mailing such
notice of forfeiture, the defendant and his bail appear, and
satisfactorily excuse the defendant's neglect or show to the
satisfaction of the court that the absence of the defendant was
not with the connivance of the bail, the court shall direct the
forfeiture of the undertaking or the deposit to be discharged
upon such terms as may be just. If within 180 days after
such entry in the minutes or mailing as the case may be, it
is made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that the
defendant is dead or is otherwise permanently unable to
appear in court due to illness, insanity, or detention by civil
or military authorities, and that the absence of the defendant
was not with the connivance of the bail, the court shall direct
the forfeiture of the undertaking or the deposit to be dis-
charged upon such terms as may be just. If within 180 days
after such entry in the minutes or mailing as the case may be,
it is made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that the
defendant is temporarily disabled by reason of illness, insanity,
or detention by civil or military authorities and is therefore
unable to appear in court at any time during the remainder of
such 180 days, and that the absence of the defendant has not
been with the connivance of the bail, then the period of time
during which the disability continues shall not be deemed part
of such 180 days. Upon a finding by the court that a reasonable
period of time is necessary in order to return the defendant to
court upon the termination of the disability, then such period
of time, as fixed by the court, shall not be deemed part of such
180 days. If at any time within 180 days after such entry in
the minutes or mailing as the case may be, the bail should
surrender the defendant to the court or to custody, the court
shall direct the forfeiture of the undertaking or the deposit to
be discharged upon such terms as may be just.
   No order discharging the forfeiture of the undertaking or
deposit shall be made without opportunity for hearing and the
filing of a notice of motion for such order setting forth the
basis for relief, with proof of service upon the district attor-
ney or other representative of the people at least 10 days prior
to the time set for hearing of the motion and otherwise in
compliance with the provisions of Section 1010 of the Code
of Civil Procedure. Such notice may be given by the surety
insurer, its bail agent, the surety, or depositor of money, any
of whom may give such notice and appear either in person
or by attorney. Such notice of motion must be filed within
180 days after such entry in the minutes or mailing as the
case may be, and must be heard and determined within 30
days after the expiration of such 180 days, unless the court
for good cause shown, shall extend the time for hearing and
determination.
    (b) If, without sufficient excuse, the defendant neglects to
appear for arraignment, trial, judgment, or upon any other
                     1969
Ch. 1194]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2329

occasion when his presence in court is lawfully required, or to
surrender himself in execution of the judgment, but the court
has reason to believe that sufficient excuse may exist for his
neglect to appear or surrender himself, the court may continue
the case for such period as it deems reasonable to enable the
defendant to appear without ordering a forfeiture of bail or
issuing a bench warrant.
   SEC. 3. Section 1306 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   1306. When any bond is forfeited, if the court which has
declared the bond forfeited has civil jurisdiction to render
judgment in an action arising upon a contract of similar nature
and amount, after the period of time within which such for-
feiture may be set aside pursuant to Section 1305 has elapsed,
if the forfeiture has not been set aside, the court shall enter a
summary judgment against each bondsman named in the bond
in the amount for which the bondsman has bound himself. If
the court declaring the forfeiture does not have jurisdiction
to render judgment in an action arising upon a contract of
similar nature and amount, after the period of time within
which such forfeiture may be set aside pursuant to Section
1305 has elapsed, if the forfeiture has not been set aside, the
court shall deliver to the district attorney or civil legal adviser
of the board of supervisors of the county in which the court is
located the bond, together with a certified copy of its order
declaring the bond forfeited, and immediately thereafter the
district attorney or civil legal adviser shall file the bond and
the certified copy of forfeiture in a court having jurisdiction
to render judgment in an action arising upon a contract of
similar nature and amount. The court in which the bond and
certified copy of forfeiture is filed shall forthwith enter a sum-
mary judgment against each bondsman named in the bond in
the amount for which the bondsman has bound himself.
   If, because of the failure of any court, district attorney, or
civil legal adviser to promptly perform the duties enjoined
 upon them pursuant to this section, summary judgment is not
 entered within 90 days after the date upon which it may first
 be entered, the right to do so expires and the bail is exonerated.
   A dismissal of the indictment or information after the de-
fault of the defendant shall not release or affect the obligation
 of the bail bond or undertaking.
   Within five days after the summary judgment becomes final,
the district attorney or civil legal adviser of the board of super-
visors shall demand immediate payment of the judgment. If
the judgment remains unpaid for a period of 10 days after
 demand has been made, he shall forthwith cause a writ of exe-
 cution to issue and be levied upon the property of the judg-
ment debtor, and shall take any other steps necessary to collect
the judgment.
   The right to enforce a summary judgment entered against a
bondsman pursuant to this section shall expire two years after
the entry of the judgment.
2330               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      TQJj   HQ5

   SEC. 4. It is the intent of the Legislature, if the amend-
ments to Section 1305 of the Penal Code proposed by both this
bill and Assembly Bill No. 939 of the 1969 Regular Session of
the Legislature are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 1305 in the form set forth in
Section 2 of this act. Therefore, in the event that Assembly
Bill No. 939 is enacted and amends Section 1305, Section 2 of
this act shall become operative at the same time that Section
1305 as amended by Assembly Bill No. 939 becomes operative,
and, at that time, Section 1305 as amended by Section 1 of this
act is repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 3 of this act shall become operative only if
Assembly Bill No. 939 of the 1969 Regular Session of the
Legislature is enacted and amends Section 1305 of the Penal
Code, and, in such case, at the same time as Assembly Bill
No. 939 becomes operative.


                         CHAPTER 1195
       An act to amend Section 1203.03 of the Penal Code,
                  relating to diagnostic reports.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1203.03 of the Penal Code is amended
to read:
   1203.03. (a) In any case in which a defendant is con-
victed of an offense punishable by imprisonment in the state
prison, the court, if it concludes that a just disposition of the
case requires such diagnosis and treatment services as can be
provided at a diagnostic facility of the Department of Cor-
rections, may order that defendant be placed temporarily in
such facility for a period not to exceed 90 days, with the fur-
ther provision in such order that the Director of the Depart-
ment of Corrections report to the court his diagnosis and
recommendations concerning the defendant within the 90-day
period.
   (b) The Director of the Department of Corrections shall,
within the 90 days, cause defendant to be observed and ex-
amined and shall forward to the court his diagnosis and rec-
ommendation concerning the disposition of defendant's case.
Such diagnosis and recommendation shall be embodied in a
written report and copies of the report shall be served only
upon the defendant or his counsel, the probation officer, and
the prosecuting attorney by the court receiving such report.
After delivery of the copies of the report, the information con-
tained therein shall not be disclosed to anyone else without the
consent of the defendant. After disposition of the case, all
                       1969
Ch. 1196]                     REGULAR SESSION                   £331

copies of the report, except the one delivered to the defendant
or his counsel, shall be filed in a sealed file and shall be avail-
able thereafter only to the defendant or his counsel, the pros-
ecuting attorney, the court, the probation officer, or the De-
partment of Corrections.
    (c) The Department of Corrections shall designate the place
to which a person referred to it under the provisions of this
section shall be transported. After the receipt of any such
person, the department may return the person to the refer-
ring court if the director of the department, in his discretion,
determines that the staff and facilities of the department are
inadequate to provide such services.
   (d) The sheriff of the county in which an order is made
placing a defendant in a diagnostic facility pursuant to this
section, or any other peace officer designated by the court,
shall execute the order placing such defendant in the center
or returning him therefrom to the court. The expense of such
sheriff or other peace officer incurred in executing such order
is a charge upon the county in which the court is situated.
   (e) I t is the intention of the Legislature that the diagnostic
facilities made available to the counties by this section shall
only be used for the purposes designated and not in lieu of
sentences to local facilities.
   (f) Time spent by a defendant in confinement in a diag-
nostic facility of the Department of Corrections pursuant to
this section shall be credited on the term of imprisonment in
state prison, if any, to which defendant is sentenced in the
case.
   (g) In any case in which a defendant has been placed in
a diagnostic facility pursuant to this section and, in the
course of his confinement, he is determined to be suffering
from a remediable condition relevant to his criminal conduct,
the department may, with the permission of defendant, ad-
minister treatment for such condition. If such treatment will
require a longer period of confinement than the period for
which defendant was placed in the diagnostic facility, the
Director of Corrections may file with the court which placed
defendant in the facility a petition for extension of the period
of confinement, to which shall be attached a writing signed by
defendant giving his consent to the extension. If the court finds
the petition and consent in order, it may order the extension,
and transmit a copy of the order to the Director of Correc-
tions.

                          CHAPTER 1196

       An act to amend Section 39090 of the Health and
            Safety Code, relating to air pollution.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2332               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch.   H97

The people of the Stat a of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 39090 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
   39090. As used in this chapter, "limited production vehi-
cle" means a make of motor vehicle of a model year prior to
1971 which was manufactured or sold in California in quanti-
ties of less than 2,000 units for such model year.


                        CHAPTER 1197
An act to amend Section 1738 of the Welfare and Institutions
      Code, relating to commitments to Youth Authority.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary ot State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1738 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   1738. "When the court commits a person to the authority the
court may order him conveyed to some place of detention
approved or established by the authority or may direct that
he be left at liberty until otherwise ordered by the authority
under such conditions as in the court's opinion will insure his
submission to any orders which the authority may issue. No
such person shall be transported to any facility under the
jurisdiction of the Youth Authority until the director has
notified the sheriff of the county of the committing court of
the place to which said person is to be transported and the
time at which he can be received.


                        CHAPTEE 1198
An act to add Chapter 7.2 (commencing with Section 6790)
  to Division 6 of the Education Code, relating to teachers of
  educationally handicapped minors, and making an appro-
  priation therefor.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary ol State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 7.2 (commencing with Section 6790)
is added to Division 6 of the Education Code, to read:
                    l969
Ch. 11981                  REGULAR SESSION                  2333

     CHAPTER 7.2. GUARANTEED LOANS TO TEACHERS OP
           EDUCATIONALLY HANDICAPPED MINORS

   6790. In order to assure having for the ensuing year cer-
tificated personnel qualified to teach educationally handi-
capped minors, as defined in Section 6750, enrolled in pro-
grams of special education maintained by a school district or
a county superintendent of schools, the governing board of
the school district or the county superintendent of schools may
enter into an agreement with any employee holding a position
requiring certification qualifications who teaches, or any certi-
fied person under contract to teach, educationally handicapped
minors for the ensuing school year for the school district or
the county superintendent of schools, whereby the school
district or the county superintendent of schools may make a
loan of financial assistance, in such amount not in excess of
that specified in Section 6792, as they may in writing agree
upon, for such employee or certificated person under contract
to undertake during the summers between academic school
years specialized preparation, including courses, workshops, or
specialized offerings, to teach educationally handicapped
minors, as approved by the Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion.
   6791. Not later than October 31 of each year, the Super-
intendent of Public Instruction shall allow, out of funds ap-
propriated to the Department of Education for the purpose,
to each school district or county superintendent of schools
making loans pursuant to the provisions of this chapter an
amount sufficient to reimburse each such district or county
superintendent of schools for the total of such loans made dur-
ing the summer immediately preceding pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 6792.
   6792. The amount of reimbursement allowed a school dis-
trict or county superintendent of schools pursuant to Section
6791 for each such loan for specialized preparation undertaken
during any given summer by any given employee or certificated
person under contract shall not exceed the product of the num-
ber of semester hours taken in any given summer multiplied by
fifty dollars ($50). The total amount of reimbursement allowed
for all such loans to any given employee or certificated person
under contract undertaking such specialized preparation shall
not exceed the product of 30 semester hours multiplied by
fifty dollars ($50). No more than five years shall elapse be-
tween the first and final allowance in reimbursement of such
loans for any given employee or certificated person under
contract.
    6793. Loans made pursuant to this chapter shall be repaid
to the Department of Education pursuant to rules and regula-
tions adopted by the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
   There shall be allowed a 20-percent credit in the repayment
of a loan for each year the recipient of the loan teaches edu-
cationally handicapped minors.
2334              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. 1199

   6794. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall estab-
lish rules and regulations for the administration of the provi-
sions of this chapter and shall employ personnel necessary for
the efficient administration of this chapter and Chapter 8.5
(commencing with Section 6875) of this division.
   SEC. 2. The sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or so
much thereof as the Superintendent of Public Instruction
certifies as being required, is appropriated from the General
Fund to the Department of Education for expenditure pur-
suant to Chapter 7.2 (commencing with Section 6790) of Divi-
sion 6 of the Education Code.
   SEC. 3. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall
submit a report to the Legislature at its 1971 Regular Session
describing the program established by Chapter 7.2 (commenc-
ing with Section 6790) of Division 6 of the Education Code
for the preparation of teachers to teach educationally handi-
capped minors and shall include in his report his recommenda-
tion concerning the desirability of the program.


                        CHAPTER 1199
An act to amend Section 19452 of, and to add Article 2.5
  (commencing with Section 19555) to Chapter 8, Part 2,
  Division 5, Title 2 of, the Government Code, relating to state
  civil service.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 19452 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   19452. To such extent as practicable and within available
resources for this purpose, the appointing power shall arrange
for such counseling and training of employees as may be
reasonably needed to prepare them for placement in other
state civil service positions when their positions have been or
are about to be changed substantially or eliminated by auto-
mation, technological changes, or other management-initiated
changes and the board shall devise plans for and cooperate
with appointing powers and other supervising officials in the
administration of counseling, training, and placement pro-
grams for employees so affected.
  SEC. 2. Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 19555) is
added to Chapter 8, Part 2, Division 5, Title 2, of the Govern-
ment Code, to read:
                       1969
Ch. 1200]                     REGULAR SESSION                   £335

                Article 2.5. Layoff Reemployment
   19555. I t is the policy of the state that when an employee
is to be separated from state service because the tasks he was
assigned are to be eliminated or substantially changed due to
management-initiated changes, including but not limited to
automation or other technological changes, steps should be
taken on an interdepartmental basis to assist such employee
in locating, preparing to qualify for, and being placed in other
positions in the state civil service. This provision shall not be
construed to restrict the authority of the executive branch or
the Legislature to effect economies or to make organizational
or other changes to increase efficiency in state government.
   19556. The board may temporarily restrict the choice of
methods of appointment available to an appointing power if
such restriction is deemed necessary in the placement in other
state civil service positions of employees whose positions have
been or are about to be changed substantially or eliminated by
such management-initiated changes.


                          CHAPTER 1200
An act to amend Sections 13307, 13308, 13601, 13641, 13953,
  13954, 15110, 15111, 15552, 15553, and 16251 of, to repeal
  Sections 13602 and 14762 of, and to add Sections 13310 and
  15113 of, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to in-
  heritance and gift taxes.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 13307 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
   13307. "Class A transferee" means any of the following:
   (a) A transferee who is the husband, wife, lineal ancestor,
or lineal issue of the decedent.
   (b) A transferee to whom the decedent for not less than 10
continuous years prior to the transfer stood in the mutually
acknowledged relationship of a parent, if the relationship com-
menced on or before the transferee's 15th birthday.
   (c) A transferee who is the lineal issue of a child mentioned
in subdivision (b).
   SEC. 2. Section 13308 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   13308. "Class B transferee" means any of the following:
   (a) A transferee who is the brother, sister, or descendant
of a brother or sister of the decedent.
   (b) A transferee who is the wife or widow of a son, or the
husband or widower of a daughter, of the decedent.

   74—1954
2336              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [Qk   J200

   SEC. 3. Section 13310 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
    13310. In determining the classification of a transferee of
any class for the purposes of this part, children adopted in
conformity with the laws of this state while under the age of
21 years are deemed to be natural children of their adoptive
parents and to be unrelated to any natural parent who has
been replaced by the adoption. Other adopted children are
deemed to retain their relationship to their natural parents
and to be unrelated to their adoptive parents; provided, how-
ever, that a person adopted by the decedent at a time when
such person was 21 years of age or older and the lineal issue
of such person shall be deemed class A transferees, if the
decedent was the stepparent of such person at the time of
adoption and the stepparent-stepchild relationship existed for
at least 10 years prior to the date of death.
    SEC. 4. Section 13601 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
    13601. A transfer by will or the laws of succession is sub-
ject to this part.
    SEC. 5. Section 13602 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is repealed.
    SEC. 6. Section 13641 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
    13641. If a transfer specified in this article was made dur-
ing lifetime by a decedent, for a consideration in money or
money's worth, but the transfer was not a bona fide sale for
an adequate and full consideration in money, or money's worth,
the amount of the transfer subject to this part shall be the ex-
cess of
     (a) The value, at the date of the transferor's death, of the
 property transferred, over
     (b) An amount equal to the same proportion of the value,
at the time of the transferor's death, of the property trans-
ferred which the consideration received in money or money's
worth for the property transferred bears to the value, at the
 date of transfer, of the property transferred.
    SEC. 7. Section 13953 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
 is amended to read:
    13953. The value of a future, contingent, or limited estate,
 income, or interest is determined in accordance with the stand-
 ards of mortality and value set forth in the United States life
tables and actuarial tables 1939-1941, table 38, published by
the Bureau of the Census of the United States Department of
 Commerce, and the rate of interest used in computing the
 present value of the estate, income, or interest is 3J percent
 per annum compounded annually.
    SEC. 8. Section 13954 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
 is amended to read:
    13954. In determining the present value of a future, con-
 tingent, or limited estate, income, or interest, other than an
                    1969 R B G U I j A R
Ch. 12001                                  SESSION         2337

annuity in a fixed amount, the yearly income, or the annual
value of the use or income, of the estate, income, or interest,
is considered equivalent to 3-J percent of the appraised value
of the property upon which the estate, income, or interest is
based.
    SEC. 9. Section 14762 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is repealed.
     SEC. 10. Section 15110 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
     15110. "Class A donee" means any of the following:
     (a) A donee who is the husband, wife, lineal ancestor, or
lineal issue of the donor.
     (b) A donee to whom the donor for not less than 10 con-
tinuous years prior to the transfer stood in the mutually
 acknowledged relationship of a parent, if the relationship com-
 menced on or before the donee's 15th birthday.
      (c) A donee who is the lineal issue of a child mentioned in
 subdivision (b).
     SEC. 11. Section 15111 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
 is amended to read:
     15111. "Class B donee" means any of the following:
      (a) A donee who is the brother, sister, or descendant of a
 brother or sister of the donor.
      (b) A donee who is the wife or widow of a son, or the hus-
 band or widower of a daughter, of the donor.
     SEC. 12. Section 15113 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
 tion Code, to read:
     15113. In determining the classification of a donee of any
 class for the purposes of this part, children adopted in con-
 formity with the laws of this state while under the age of 21
 years are deemed to be natural children of their adoptive
  parents and to be unrelated to any natural parent who has
 been replaced by the adoption. Other adopted children are
  deemed to retain their relationship to their natural parents and
  to be unrelated to their adoptive parents; provided, however,
  that a person adopted by the donor at a time when such per-
  son was 21 years of age or older and the lineal issue of such
  person shall be deemed class A donees if the donor was the
  stepparent of such person at the time of adoption and the
  stepparent-stepchild relationship existed for at least 10 years
  prior to the date of gift.
      SEC. 13. Section 15552 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
  is amended to read:
      15552. The value of a future, contingent, or limited estate,
  income, or interest is determined in accordance with the stand-
   ards of mortality and value set forth in the United States life
  tables and actuarial tables 1939-1941, Table 38, published by
   the Bureau of the Census of the United States Department of
   Commerce, and the rate of interest used in computing the pres-
   ent value of the estate, income, or interest is 3 | percent per
   annum compounded annually.
2338              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1201

   SEC. 14. Section 15553 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   15553. I n determining the present value of a future, con-
tingent, or limited estate, income, or interest, other than an
annuity in a fixed amount, the yearly income, or the annual
value of the use or income, of the estate, income, or interest
is considered equivalent to 3^ percent of the appraised value
of the property upon which the estate, income, or interest is
based.
   SEC. 15. Section 16251 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   16251. Within three years after a determination is issued,
any person who has paid or is liable for the tax may bring an
action against the state in the superior court having jurisdic-
tion to have the tax modified, in whole or in part.


                        CHAPTER 1201
An act to amend an initiative act entitled "An act to estab-
  lish a board of osteopathic examiners, to provide for their
  appointment, and to prescribe their powers and duties; to
  regulate the examination of applicants, who are graduates
  of osteopathic schools, for any form of certificate to treat
  disease, injuries, deformities or other physical or mental con-
  ditions; to regulate the practice of those so licensed, who
  are graduates of osteopathic schools; to impose upon said
  board of osteopathic examiners all duties and functions, re-
  lating to graduates of osteopathic schools, holding or apply-
  ing for any form of certificate or license, heretofore exer-
  cised and performed by the board of medical examiners of
  the State of California under the provisions of the state
  medical practice act, approved June 2, 1913, and acts
  amendatory thereof" approved by electors November 7,
  1922, by amending Section 1 thereof, and to amend Sections
  2376.5 and 2496 of the Business and Professions Code, re-
  lating to the Board of Osteopathic Examiners.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1 of the act cited in the title is amended
to read:
   Section 1. A self-sustaining Board of Osteopathic Exam-
iners to consist of five members and to be known as the "Board
of Osteopathic Examiners of the State of California" is
hereby created and established. The Governor shall appoint
the members of the board, each of whom shall have been a
citizen of this state for at least five years next preceding his
                     1969
Ch. 1201]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2339

appointment. Each of the members shall be appointed from
among persons who are graduates of osteopathic schools who
hold unrevoked licenses or certificates to practice in this state.
The Governor shall fill by appointment all vacancies on the
board. The term of office of each member shall be three years;
provided, that of the first board appointed, one shall be ap-
pointed for one year, two for two years, and two for three
years, and that thereafter all appointments shall be for three
years, except that appointments to fill vacancies shall be for
the unexpired term only. The Governor shall have power to
remove from office any member of the board for neglect of
duty, for incompetency, or for unprofessional conduct. Each
member of the board shall, before entering upon the duties of
his office, take the constitutional oath of office. All fees col-
lected on behalf of the Board of Osteopathic Examiners and
all receipts of every kind and nature, shall be reported at the
beginning of each month for the month preceding, to the State
Controller and at the same time the entire amount must be
paid into the State Treasury and shall be credited to a fund
to be known as the Board of Osteopathic Examiners Con-
tingent Fund, which fund is hereby created. Such contingent
fund shall be for the use of the Board of Osteopathic Exam-
iners and out of it and not otherwise shall be paid all expenses
of the board. Each member of the board shall receive a per
diem and expenses as provided in Section 103, provided the
fees and other receipts of the board are sufficient to meet this
expense.
   The Governor shall appoint the members of said board
within 30 days after this act takes effect. The board shall be
organized within 60 days after the appointment of its mem-
bers by the Governor by electing from its number a presi-
dent, vice president and a secretary who shall also be the
treasurer, who shall hold their respective positions during the
pleasure of the board. The board shall hold one meeting an-
nually beginning on the second Tuesday in January in the
City of Sacramento with power of adjournment from time to
time until its business is concluded. Special meetings of the
board may be held at such time and place as the board may
designate. Notice of each regular or special meeting shall be
given twice a week for two weeks next preceding each meet-
ing in one daily paper published in the City of San Francisco,
one published in the City of Sacramento, and one published in
the City of Los Angeles which notice shall also specify the
time and place of holding the examination of applicants. The
secretary of the board upon an authorization from the presi-
dent of the board, or the chairman of the committee may call
meetings of any duly appointed committee of the board at a
specified time and place and it shall not be necessary to adver-
tise such committee meetings. The board shall receive through
2340              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1201

its secretary applications for certificates to be issued by said
board and shall, on or before the first day of January in each
year transmit to the Governor a full report of all its proceed-
ings together with a report of its receipts and disbursements.
    The office of the board shall be in the City of Sacramento.
Suboffices may be established in Los Angeles and San Fran-
cisco and such records as may be necessary may be transferred
temporarily to such suboffices. Legal proceedings against the
board may be instituted in any one of said three cities.
     The board may from time to time adopt such rules as may
 be necessary to enable it to carry into effect the provisions of
 this act. It shall require the affirmative vote of three members
 of said board to carry any motion or resolution, to adopt any
 rules, pass any measure or to authorize the issuance or the
 revocation of any certificate. Any member of the board may
 administer oaths in all matters pertaining to the duties of the
 board and the board shall have authority to take evidence in
 any matter cognizable by it. The board shall keep an official
 record of its proceedings, a part of which record shall consist
 of a register of all applicants for certificates under this act
 together with the action of the board upon each application.
     The board shall have the power to employ legal counsel to
 advise and assist it in connection with all matters cognizable
  by the board or in connection with any litigation or legal pro-
  ceedings instituted by or against said board and may also em-
  ploy inspectors, special agents and investigators, and such
  clerical assistance as it may deem necessary to carry into
  effect the provisions of this act. The board may fix the compen-
  sation to be paid for such services and may incur such other
  expense as it may deem necessary; provided, however, that all
  of such expense shall be payable only from the said fund here-
  inbefore provided for and to be known as the Board of Osteo-
  pathic Examiners Contingent Fund.
      Every applicant for any form of certificate shall pay to the
  secretary-treasurer of the board the fees prescribed by law.
  Every licentiate, or certificate holder, subject to the jurisdic-
  tion of this board, shall on or before the first day of January
  of each year pay to the secretary-treasurer the annual tax and
  registration fee prescribed by law.
      SEC. 2. Section 2376.5 of the Business and Professions
  Code is amended to read:
      2376.5. A person, whose certificate has been revoked or sus-
  pended for more than one year, may petition the board to
  reinstate the certificate after a period of not less than one
  year has elapsed from the date of the revocation or suspen-
   sion.
      The petition shall state such facts as may be required by the
   board. The petition shall be accompanied by two or more
   verified recommendations from physicians and surgeons li-
   censed by the board to which the petition is addressed and
                    1969
Ch. 1201]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2341

by two or more recommendations from citizens each having
personal knowledge of the activities of the petitioner since the
disciplinary penalty was imposed. The petition shall be heard
at the next regular meeting of the board, held not earlier
than 30 days atter the petition was filed. The hearing may be
continued from time to time as the board finds necessary. No
petition shall be considered while the petitioner is under sen-
tence for any criminal offense, including any period during
which he is on probation or parole.
   In determining whether the disciplinary penalty should be
set aside and the terms and conditions, if any, which should be
imposed if the disciplinary penalty is set aside, the board may
investigate and consider all activities of the petitioner since
the disciplinary action was taken against him, the offense for
which he was disciplined, his activity during the time his cer-
tificate was in good standing, his general reputation for truth,
professional ability and good character, and may require the
petitioner to pass an oral or written examination, or both, at
the option of the board. The affirmative vote of at least seven
of the members of the Board of Medical Examiners is necessary
to set aside a penalty and to restore a certificate with or with-
out terms, conditions and restrictions. The affirmative vote of
at least three of the members of the Board of Osteopathic Ex-
aminers is necessary to set aside a penalty and to restore a
certificate with or without terms, conditions, and restrictions.
The board may grant or deny, without a hearing or argument,
any petition filed pursuant to this section, where the petitioner
has been afforded a hearing upon any petition filed pursuant
to this section within a period of two years immediately pre-
ceding the filing of such petition.
   The secretary-treasurer shall enter in his records of the
case all actions of the board in setting aside a disciplinary
penalty under this section and he shall certify notices to the
proper county clerk. The county clerk shall make such
changes on his records as may be necessary.
    SEC. 3. Section 2496 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
    2496. The amount of fees and refunds is that fixed by the
following schedule for any certificate issued by the Board of
Osteopathic Examiners. All other fees and refunds for any cer-
tificate issued by the Board of Osteopathic Examiners and
which are not prescribed in this schedule, are prescribed in Sec-
tion 2458.
    (a) The fee for each applicant for a certificate, unless
otherwise provided, shall be set by the board on or before
November 1st of each year for the ensuing calendar year at
such sum as the board determines necessary to defray the
expenses of administering the provisions of this chapter,
under the Osteopathic Act, relating to the issuance of cer-
2342               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Qj_ 1202

tificates to such applicants, which sum, however, shall not
exceed fifty dollars ($50) nor be less than twenty-five dollars
 ($25). If the applicant's credentials are insufficient, or if he
does not desire to take the examination or if the applicant
fails to receive a certificate, the sum of ten dollars ($10)
shall be retained and the remainder of the fee is returnable on
application.
    (b) Each applicant for a reciprocity certificate shall pay
an application fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10) at the time
his application is filed. If the applicant qualifies for a certifi-
cate, he shall be notified and shall pay a fee which shall
be fixed annually by the board at a sum not in excess of one
hundred dollars ($100) nor less than twenty-five dollars ($25)
for the issuance of a certificate.
    (c) The annual tax and registration fee shall be set by the
board on or before November 1st of each year for the ensuing
calendar year at such sum which, when added to all other
estimated revenues for such year, will be sufficient to defray
all estimated expenditures of the board for such year in ad-
ministering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter
under the Osteopathic Act, which sum, however, shall not
exceed seventy-five dollars ($75) nor be less than ten dollars
 ($10).
    (d) The fee for failure to pay the annual tax and regis-
tration fee is fifty dollars ($50).


                         CHAPTER 1202
         An act to add Section 270h to the Penal Code,
                 relating to support of minors.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 270h is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
   270h. In any case where there is a conviction under the
provisions of either Section 270 or 270a and there is an order
granting probation which includes an order for support, execu-
tion may be issued on such order for the support payments
that accrue during the time such probation order is in effect,
in the same manner as on a judgment in a civil action for
support payments. This remedy is in addition to any other
remedies available to the court. This remedy shall not apply
when there is an existing civil order for support of the same
person or persons included in the probation support order.
                       1969
Ch. 1204]                     REGULAR SESSION                       2343

                           CHAPTER 1203

An act to amend Sections 1016 and 1016.5 of the                 Education
              Code, relating to junior colleges.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of btate August di, l'Jb9.j

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 1016 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   1016. The governing board of any school district, includ-
ing the governing board of a junior college district, may con-
tract for the services of an attorney in private practice to
prepare and conduct school district litigation, or to assist it in
the preparation and conduct of school district litigation, and
compensation of such attorney pursuant to contract shall be
a proper use of school district funds but the school district
shall first obtain the written views of the district attorney or
county counsel as to the merits of the litigation and the form
of the proposed contract of employment with the private at-
torney. The district attorney or the county counsel shall fur-
nish his written views within seven days from the time he is
requested by the governing board of the school district.
   SEC. 2. Section 1016.5 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   1016.5. The governing board of any school district, includ-
ing the governing board of a junior college district, may, with
the concurrence in writing of the district attorney or county
counsel having jurisdiction thereof, contract with a qualified
attorney in private practice to provide specialized legal serv-
ices. Compensation of such attorney in private practice pur-
suant to contract under this section shall be a proper use of
school district funds, but the school district shall first obtain
the written views of the district attorney or county counsel,
which shall be furnished within seven days from the time of
the request by the governing board, as to the need for special-
ized legal services and on the form of the proposed contract
with the private attorney.
   SEC. 3. The amendments made to Sections 1016 and
1016.5 of the Education Code by Sections 1 and 2 of this action
do not constitute a change in, but are declaratory of, the pre-
existing law.

                           CHAPTEE 1204
An act to add Sections 6726, 6726.1, 6726.2, 6726.3, and 6726.4
  to the Business and Professions Code, relating to engineers.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2344              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     TQ n _ J 2 0 5

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6726 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read -.
   6726. The board, when it deems necessary, may establish
professional engineers investigation committees to assist the
board in the investigation of claims of violation of any pro-
vision under this chapter. Bach committee shall report its
findings and recommendations to the board. Any member of
such a committee may act as an expert witness at a hearing
conducted by the board when the hearing is conducted as a
result of the committee's investigation.
   Bach committee shall exist so long as the board deems that
it is necessary.
   SEC. 2. Section 6726.1 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   6726.1. Bach member of each committee shall be appointed
by the board and shall serve at the pleasure of the board. Each
committee shall be composed of no more than five members.
    SEC. 3. Section 6726.2 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
    6726.2. Bach member of each committee shall be an expert
in the branch of engineering that the committee is investigat-
ing and shall be registered under this chapter.
    SEC. 4. Section 6726.3 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
    6726.3. All the members of each committee shall serve
without compensation but shall receive per diem and expenses
as provided in Section 103.
    SEC. 5. Section 6726.4 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   6726.4. Bach member of each investigation committee shall
be granted the same immunity as is granted to a public em-
ployee pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 820)
of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the
Government Code.

                        CHAPTER 1205
An act to amend Section 816 of, and to add Section 836.5 to,
  the Penal Code, relating to warrants of arrest and arrests.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 816 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
  816. A warrant of arrest shall be directed generally to any
peace officer, or to any public officer or employee authorized
                    1969
Ch. 1205]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2345

to serve process where the warrant is for a violation of a
statute or ordinance which such person has a duty to enforce,
in the state, and may be executed by any of those officers to
whom it may be delivered.
   SEC. 2. Section 816 of the Penal Code is amended to read •
   816. A warrant of arrest shall be directed generally to any
peace officer, or to any public officer or employee authorized to
serve process where the warrant is for a violation of a statute
or ordinance which such person has the duty to enforce, in the
state, and may be executed by any of those officers to whom it
may be delivered.
   When a warrant of arrest has been delivered to a peace
officer and the person named in the warrant is otherwise law-
fully in the custody of the peace officer, the warrant may be
executed by the peace officer or by any clerk of a city or county
jail authorized to act and acting under the peace officer's di-
rection.
   SEC. 3. Section 836.5 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   836.5. (a) A public officer or employee, when authorized
by ordinance, may arrest a person without a warrant whenever
he has reasonable cause to believe that the person to be ar-
rested has committed a misdemeanor in his presence which is
a violation of a statute or ordinance which such officer or em-
ployee has the duty to enforce.
    (b) There shall be no civil liability on the part of, and no
cause of action shall arise against, any public officer or em-
ployee acting pursuant to subdivision (a) and within the scope
 of his authority for false arrest or false imprisonment arising
out of any arrest which is lawful or which the public officer
or employee, at the time of the arrest, had reasonable cause to
believe was lawful. No such officer or employee shall be deemed
 an aggressor or lose his right to self-defense by the use of rea-
 sonable force to effect the arrest, prevent escape, or overcome
resistance.
    (c) In any case in which a person is arrested pursuant to
 subdivision (a) and the person arrested does not demand to be
 taken before a magistrate, the public officer or employee mak-
 ing the arrest shall prepare a written notice to appear and
 release the person on his promise to appear, as prescribed by
 Chapter 5C (commencing with Section 853.6) of this title. The
 provisions of such chapter shall thereafter apply with refer-
 ence to any proceeding based upon the issuance of a written
 notice to appear pursuant to this authority.
    (d) The governing body of a local agency, by ordinance,
 may authorize those of its officers and employees who have the
 duty to enforce a statute or ordinance to arrest persons for
 violations of such statute or ordinance as provided in subdi-
 vision (a).
    SEC. 3. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
 to Section 816 of the Penal Code proposed by both this bill and
 AB 1494 are enacted, that both amendments be given effect
2346               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1206

and incorporated in Section 816 in the form set forth in Sec-
tion 2 of this act. Therefore, in the event AB 1494 is enacted
and amends Section 816, Section 2 of this act shall become
operative at the same time that Section 816 as amended by
AB 1494 becomes operative, and at that time, Section 816 of
the Penal Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                        CHAPTER 1206
An act to amend Section 830.2 of the Penal Code and to repeal
  Section 399 of the Military and Veterans Code, relating to
  peace officers' status for members of the California National
  Guard.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 830.2 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   830.2. (a) Any member of the California Highway Patrol
is a peace officer whose authority extends to any place in the
state; provided, that the primary duty of any such peace offi-
cer shall be the enforcement of the provisions of the Vehicle
 Code or of any other law relating to the use or operation of
vehicles upon the highways, as that duty is set forth in the
Vehicle Code. Provided further, that he shall not act as a peace
officer in enforcing any other law except (i) when in pursuit
of any offender or suspected offender or (ii) to make arrests
for crimes committed in his presence or upon any highway.
   (b) Any member of the California State Police Division is
a peace officer; provided, that the primary duty of any such
peace officer shall be the protection of state properties and
occupants thereof, and he shall not act as a peace officer in
enforcing any law except (1) when in pursuit of any offender
or suspected offender or (2) to make arrests for crimes com-
mitted in his presence or upon state properties.
   (c) Members of the California National Guard have the
powers of peace officers when they are (1) called or ordered
into active state service by the Governor pursuant to the
provisions of Section 143 or 146 of the Military and Veterans
Code, (2) serving within the area wherein military assistance
is required, and (3) directly assisting civil authorities in any
of the situations specified in Section 143 or 146. The authority
of any such peace officer extends to the area wherein military
assistance is required as to a public offense committed or
which there is reasonable cause to believe has been committed
within that area. The requirements of Section 1031 of the
Government Code are not applicable under such circumstances.
                        1969
Ch. 12081                      REGULAR SESSION                  2347

   SEC. 2. Section 399 of the Military and Veterans Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 3. The amendment of Section 830.2 of the Penal Code
and the repeal of Section 399 of the Military and Veterans
Code made by this act do not constitute a change in, but are
  __i     j.    ~£ J."U„ — : „ - * . i - , ~ i *
d ecicirctlossy ux,               nn
                    t u e eA.ioLing l a w .



                           CHAPTER 1207
An act to add Section 71 to the Penal Code, relating to crimes
              against public and school officials.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION    1. Section 71 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   71. Every person who, with intent to cause, attempts to
cause, or causes, any officer or employee of any public or pri-
vate educational institution or any public officer or employee
to do, or refrain from doing, any act in the performance of his
duties, by means of a threat, directly communicated to such
person, to inflict an unlawful injury upon any person or prop-
erty, and it reasonably appears to the recipient of the threat
that such threat could be carried out, is guilty of a public
offense punishable as follows:
   (1) Upon a first conviction, such person is punishable by
a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by
imprisonment in the state prison not exceeding five years or
in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
   (2) If such person has been previously convicted of a viola-
tion of this section, such previous conviction shall be charged
in the accusatory pleading, and if such previous conviction
is found to be true by the jury, upon a j u r y trial, or by the
court, upon a court trial, or is admitted by the defendant, he
is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison not exceed-
ing five years.
   As used in this section, "directly communicated" includes,
but is not limited to, a communication to the recipient of the
threat by telephone, telegraph, or letter.


                           CHAPTER 1208
An act to add Chapter 2d (commencing with Section 2985.7)
  to Title 14 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code, relating
  to sales and leases of automobiles.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2348               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                r(3h. 1208

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 2d (commencing with Section 2985.7)
is added to Title 14 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code,
to read •.
           CHAPTER 2d.      AUTOMOBILE LEASING A C T

   2985.7. As used in this chapter, unless the context other-
wise requires:
    (a) "Motor vehicle" means any vehicle required to be
registered under the Vehicle Code which is bought for use
primarily for personal or family purposes, and does not mean
any vehicle which is bought for use primarily for business or
commercial purposes.
    (b) "Leasing contract" or " c o n t r a c t " means any contract
for the bailment or leasing for a term exceeding four months
of a motor vehicle by which it is agreed that the bailee or
lessee bear the risk of the motor vehicle's depreciation.
    (c) " V a l u e " means the value placed on the vehicle which
value is to be used as an element in the establishment of any
liability of the lessee or bailee at the end of the lease.
    (d) "Lessor" includes bailor, and "lessee" includes bailee.
    2985.8. Every leasing contract for the lease or bailment of
an automobile, with or without accessories, shall be in writing
and, if printed, shall be in type no smaller than six-point, and
shall contain in a single document all of the agreements of the
lessor and lessee with respect to the obligations of each party.
The contract shall be signed by the lessor or his authorized
representative and by the lessee or his authorized representa-
tive and an exact copy thereof shall be furnished the lessee by
the lessor at the time the lessor and the lessee have signed the
contract. No motor vehicle shall be delivered under this
chapter until the lessor delivers to the lessee a fully executed
copy of the contract. The lessor shall not obtain the signature
of the lessee to a contract when it contains blank spaces to be
filled in after it has been signed. Every contract shall contain,
although not necessarily in the sequence or order set forth
below, the following separate items :
    (a) The value of the motor vehicle.
    (b) The total amount of periodic payments to be credited
to the lessee in the establishment of any liability at the end of
the lease period.
    (c) The total amount of periodic payments not to be so
credited.
    (d) The maximum for which the lessee could be liable at the
 end of the lease period.
    (e) The amount, if any, included for insurance (specifying
the coverages and the cost of each type of coverage) if such
 insurance is provided by or procured through the lessor.
     (f) A notice in at least eight-point bold type if the contract
 is printed, reading as follows: "Notice to the lessee-. (1) Do
 not sign this agreement before you read it or if it contains any
                     1969
Ch. 1209]                   REGULAR SESSION                        2349

blank spaces to be filled in. (2) You are entitled to a com-
 pletely filled-in copy of this agreement."
   2985.9. If the lessor, except as the result of an accidental
 or bona fide error of computation, violates any provision of
 Section 2985.8, the leasing contract shall not be enforceable,
 except by a bona fide purchaser, assignee or pledgee for value
 or until after the violation is corrected as provided in Section
2985.91, and if the violation is not corrected, the lessee may
recover from the lessor the total amount paid, pursuant to
the terms of the contract, by the lessee to the lessor or to his
assignee or pledgee.
   2985.91. Any failure to comply with Section 2985.8 can be
corrected by the holder, except that a willful violation may not
be corrected unless it is a violation appearing on the face of the
contract and is corrected within 30 days after the execution of
the contract or within 20 days after its sale, assignment or
pledge, whichever is later, provided that the 20-day period
shall commence with the initial sale, assignment or pledge of
the contract, and provided that any other violation appearing
on the face of the contract may be corrected only within such
time period. A correction which will increase the amount of the
contract balance or the amount of any installment as such
amounts appear on the leasing contract shall not be effective
unless the lessee concurs in writing to the correction. If the
lessee is notified by the lessor of such a failure to comply with
any provision of this chapter, the correction shall be made
within 10 days after such notice. Where any provision of a
leasing contract fails to comply with Section 2985.8, the correc-
tion shall be made by mailing or delivering a corrected copy of
the contract to the lessee. Any amount improperly collected by
the holder from the lessee shall be credited against the indebt-
edness evidenced by the contract or returned to the lessee. A
violation corrected as provided in this section shall not be the
basis of any recovery by the lessee or affect the enforceability
of the contract by the holder, and shall not be deemed to be a
substantive change in the agreement of the parties.
   2985.92. This chapter shall not apply to any transaction
which is regulated by Chapter 2b (commencing with Section
2981) of this title.
   2985.93. This chapter may be cited as the Moscone Automo-
bile Leasing Act of 1969.

                        CHAPTEE 1209
An act to amend Section 2909 of the Business and             Professions
               Code, relating to psychologists.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2350              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQfa 1 2 0 9

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2909 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   2909. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as restrict-
ing or preventing activities of a psychological nature or the
use of the official title of the position for which they were
employed on the part of the following persons, provided such
persons are performing those activities as part of the duties
for which they were employed, are performing such activities
solely within the confines of or under the jurisdiction of the
organization in which they are employed and do not offer to
render or render psychological services as defined in Section
2903 to the public for a fee, monetary or otherwise, over and
above the salary they receive for the performance of their of-
ficial duties with the organization in which they are employed:
   (a) Persons who hold a valid and current credential as a
school psychologist issued by the California Department of
Education
   (b) Persons who hold a valid and current credential as a
psychometrist issued by the California Department of Educa-
tion
   (c) Persons employed in positions as psychologists or psy-
chological assistants by accredited or approved colleges, junior
colleges or universities; federal, state, county or municipal
governmental organizations. However, such persons may, with-
out obtaining a license under this act, consult or disseminate
their research findings and scientific information to other such
accredited or approved academic institutions or governmental
agencies. They may also offer lectures to the public for a
fee, monetary or otherwise, without being licensed under this
chapter.
   (d) Persons who meet the educational requirements of sub-
division (d) of Section 2914 and who have one year or more
of professional experience of a type which the committee de-
termines will competently and safely permit the person to
engage in the activities regulated by this chapter, if they are
employed by nonprofit community agencies which receive a
minimum of 25 percent of their financial support from any
federal, state, county, or municipal governmental organiza-
tions for the purpose of training and providing services. Such
persons shall be registered by the agency with the committee
at the time of employment and shall be exempt from the pro-
visions of this chapter for a maximum period of two years
from the date of registration.
                        1969
Ch. 1211]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2351

                           CHAPTER 1210
            An act to amend Section 13210 of the Vehicle
                 Code, relating to drivers' licenses.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 13210 of the Vehicle Code is amended
to read:
   13210. Notwithstanding any other provision of this code,
whenever any person is convicted for the first time of driving
a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liq-
uor, other than under Section 23101, the court may order the
department not to suspend the privilege of the person to op-
erate a motor vehicle under Section 13352. In such event the
court may also limit the person's driving privilege as a condi-
tion of probation without notifying the department of such
condition.

                           CHAPTER 1211
An act to amend Section 13800 of the Penal Code, relating
        to the California Council on Criminal Justice.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13800 of the Penal Code is amended
to read:
   13800. There is hereby created in the state government the
California Council on Criminal Justice, hereafter referred to
as the council, which shall be composed of the following mem-
bers: the Attorney General, 16 members appointed by the
Governor, three of whom shall be the Commissioner of the
Department of the Highway Patrol, the Director of the De-
partment of Corrections, and the Director of the Youth
Authority; six members appointed by the Senate Rules Com-
mittee, two of whom shall be Members of the Senate; and six
members appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly, two of
whom shall be Members of the Assembly.
   The appointing authorities shall consult in the selection of
council members to insure that there is balanced representa-
tion on the council including representatives of the public
concerned with the prevention and reduction of crime.
   The appointees of the Governor shall include: a chief of
police, a district attorney, a sheriff, a public defender, two
members of city councils, two members of county boards of
supervisors, a representative of the Commission on Peace Offi-
2352               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Q}^ ^212

cer Standards and Training, a faculty member of a college or
uniyersity qualified in the field of criminology, police science,
or law, and a person qualified in the general field of research,
development, and systems technology. The Speaker and Senate
Committee on Rules shall include among their appointments a
representative of the Judicial Council, a judge, a representa-
tive of the cities and a representative of the counties.


                         CHAPTER 1212
An act to amend Sections 73522, 73523, 73602, 73603, 74302,
  and 74303 of the Government Code, relating to municipal
  courts.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows;

   SECTION 1. Section 73522 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
   73522. There shall be one clerk who shall receive a monthly
 salary at the rate specified in salary range number 41 of the
 salary schedule.
    SEC. 2. Section 73523 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73523. The clerk may appoint:
    (a) One chief deputy clerk who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rates specified in salary range number 36 of the
salary schedule.
    (b) Five deputy clerks, grade III, each of whom shall
receive a monthly salary at the rates specified in salary range
number 33 of the salary schedule.
   (c) Five deputy clerks, grade II, each of whom shall re-
ceive a monthly salary at the rate specified in salary range
number 29 of the salary schedule.
   (d) Twelve deputy clerks, grade I, each of whom shall
receive a monthly salary at the rates specified in salary range
number 27 of the salary schedule.
   SEC. 3. Section 73602 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73602. There shall be one clerk who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in salary range number 41 of the
salary schedule.
   SEC. 4. Section 73603 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73603. The clerk may appoint:
   (a) One chief deputy clerk who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rates specified in salary range number 36 of the
salary schedule.
Ch. 32131               1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2353

   (b) Five deputy clerks, grade I I I , each of whom shall re-
ceive a monthly salary at the rates specified in salary range
number 33 of the salary schedule.
   (c) Five deputy clerks, grade II, each of whom shall receive
a monthly salary at the rates specified in salary range number
29 of the salary schedule.
   (d) Eleven deputy clerks, grade I, each of whom shall
receive a monthly salary at the rates specified in salary range
number 27 of the salary schedule.
   (e) Two part-time deputy clerks, grade I, each of whom
shall receive a monthly salary at an amount not to exceed
one-half of the rates specified in salary range number 27 of
the salary schedule.
   SEC. 5. Section 74302 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
  74302. There shall be one clerk who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in salary range number 41 of the
salary schedule.
   SEC. 6. Section 74303 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74303. The clerk may appoint:
   (a) One chief deputy clerk who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in salary range number 36 of the
salary schedule.
   (b) Six deputy clerks, grade III, each of whom shall receive
a monthly salary at the rate specified in salary range number
33 of the salary schedule.
   (c) Six deputy clerks, grade I I , each of whom shall receive
a monthly salary at the rate specified in salary range number
29 of the salary schedule.
   (d) Nine deputy clerks, grade I, each of whom shall receive
a monthly salary at the rate specified in salary range number
27 of the salary schedule.


                           CHAPTER 1213
An act to amend Sections 592 and 2400 of the Vehicle            Code,
                   relating to highways.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 592 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
  592. " H i g h w a y " , for the purposes of Division 3 (com-
mencing with Section 4000), Division 12 (commencing with
Section 24000), Division 13 (commencing with Section 29000),
Division 14.8 (commencing with Section 34500), and Division
2354               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Qh, 1214

15 (commencing with Section 35000), does not include a way
or place under the jurisdiction of a federal governmental
agency, which lies on national forest or private lands, is open
to public use, and for which the cost of maintenance of such
way or place is borne or contributed to directly by any users
thereof.
   SEC. 2. Section 2400 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   2400. The commissioner shall administer Chapter 4 (com-
mencing with Section 10850) of Division 4, Article 3 (com-
mencing with Section 17300) of Chapter 1 of Division 9, Divi-
sion 10 (commencing with Section 20000), Division 11 (com-
mencing with Section 21000), except Chapter 11 (commencing
with Section 22950), Division 12 (commencing with Section
24000), Division 13 (commencing with Section 29000), Divi-
sion 14 (commencing with Section 31600), Division 14.8 (com-
mencing with Section 34500), Division 15 (commencing with
Section 35000), and Division 16 (commencing with Section
36000) except Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 36100)
and Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 36300).
   The commissioner shall enforce all laws regulating the oper-
ation of vehicles and the use of the highways except that on
ways or places to which Section 592 makes reference, the com-
missioner shall not be required to provide patrol or enforce
any provisions of this code other than those provisions appli-
cable to private property.
   The commissioner shall have full responsibility and primary
jurisdiction for the administration and enforcement of such
provisions and laws, and for the investigation of traffic acci-
dents, on all state highways constructed as freeways within
incorporated areas of the state, provided, however, that city
police officers while engaged primarily in general law enforce-
ment duties may incidentally enforce state and local traffic
laws and ordinances on state freeways. In any city having
either a population in excess of 2,000,000 or an area of more
than 300 square miles city police officers shall have full respon-
sibility and primary jurisdiction for the administration and
enforcement of such laws and ordinances, unless the city coun-
cil of any such city shall by resolution request administration
and enforcement of such laws by the commissioner.


                        CHAPTER 1214
       An act to add Section 34005 to the Vehicle Code,
            relating to implements of husbandry.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
                        1969
Ch. 1215]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2355

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 34005 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
read:
  34005. The provisions of this division shall not apply to
a trap wagon or spray rig when empty or when transporting
not more than 1,000 gallons of flammable liquids to accomplish
the basic function of such vehicle. For the purpose of this
section, trap wagon and spray rig shall mean an implement of
husbandry as denned in Section 36005.


                           CHAPTER 1215
An act to amend Sections 6809, 6902, and 6903 of the Educa-
      tion Code, relating to special education programs.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6809 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6809. Physically handicapped minors may be admitted at
the age of three years to special schools or classes established
for such minors.
   "When the school district of residence of a minor between
the ages of three and six years who is deaf, blind, cere-
bral palsied, orthopedically handicapped, or aphasic does not
maintain a special class in the category of the minor's handi-
capping condition, but such a special class or special school
is maintained by the county superintendent of schools or by
another school district, such a minor shall be admitted to a
special school or special class so maintained when all of the
following circumstances exist:
   (a) The minor is eligible for enrollment under the regula-
tions of the county superintendent or the governing body of
the district maintaining such special class, as applicable.
    (b) The governing board of the district or the county su-
perintendent maintaining the special day class is willing to
admit the minor.
    (c) The parents of the minor file a written request that the
minor be so admitted and a physician's statement that the
minor is physically able to attend such a class. Such request
and statement shall be filed with the district superintendent
of schools when the class is maintained by a school district or
with the county superintendent of schools when the class is
maintained by the latter.
   If a minor is admitted pursuant to this section, the district
of the pupil's residence shall enter into a contract as provided
by Section 6806, and the provisions of Section 6806 with re-
2356               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    m ^ . 1216

 spect to payment of cost of tuition and the cost of buildings
 and equipment shall apply.
    SEC. 2. Section 6902 of the Education Code is amended to
 read:
    6902. The education of mentally retarded minors who are
 of compulsory school age and who may be expected to benefit
 from special educational facilities designed to make them eco-
 nomically useful and socially adjusted shall be provided for
 in the manner set forth in Sections 6901 to 6913, inclusive, and
 in Sections 895 to 895.10, inclusive. Such special education may
 be provided mentally retarded minors who are between five
 years nine months and six years of age and those above com-
 pulsory school age and less than 21 years of age.
    SEC. 3. Section 6903 of the Education Code is amended to
 read:
    6903. The education of mentally retarded minors who do
 not come within the provisions of Section 6902, who are six
 or more, and less than 18 years of age and who may be ex-
 pected to benefit from special educational facilities designed
 to educate and train them to further their individual accept-
 ance, social adjustment, and economic usefulness in their homes
 and within a sheltered environment, shall be provided for in
the manner set forth in Sections 6901 to 6913, inclusive, and
 in Sections 895 to 895.10, inclusive. The education of such
 mentally retarded minors who are five or more and less than
 six years of age may be provided for in the manner set forth
 in Sections 6901 to 6913, inclusive, and in Sections 895 to
895.10, inclusive.
    Any such minor who becomes 18 years of age while in
attendance upon a special training school or class shall be
permitted to continue to attend thereon for the remainder
of the time such school or class is maintained during the then
current school year.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section any such
minor who is participating regularly in an approved occupa-
tional training program in the manner set forth in Sections
6931 and 6932 may be permitted by the governing board of
the district or county superintendent of schools, as the case
may be, maintaining such training program to continue
thereon until his' 21st birthday.


                        CHAPTER 1216
       An act to amend Section 28145 of the Government
                Code, relating to county officers.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
                    1969
Ch. 12161                  REGULAR SESSION                  2357

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 28145 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   28145. In a county of the 45th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law, or by virtue of their offices, the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, four thousand four hundred twenty dollars
($4,420) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, sixteen thousand dollars ($16,-
000) a year, and he shall not engage in the private practice
of law.
    (c) Each supervisor, eight thousand seven hundred dollars
 ($8,700) a year for all services performed by him, as super-
visor and member of the board of equalization.
   Bach supervisor shall receive twelve cents ($0.12) a mile
for each mile actually and necessarily traveled when traveling
within or without the county on county business.
   In lieu of mileage, supervisors may use automobiles pro-
vided and maintained by the county in connection with the
performance of their official duties.
    (d) The official reporter of the superior court shall receive
as full compensation for taking notes in criminal cases in the
superior court, before the grand jury, and for coroner's in-
quests, a monthly salary of four hundred dollars ($400) pay-
able out of the county treasury at the same time and in the
same manner as the salaries of the county officers are paid. He
phall receive as compensation for taking notes when required
in civil cases a per diem as provided by law, to be paid by the
litigants as the court directs, and for transcription of such
notes in civil cases, and in criminal cases on appeal from the
superior court, such fees as are provided by law. The com-
pensation for transcriptions in criminal cases on appeal from
the superior court shall be audited and allowed upon a written
order of the court and paid out of the county treasury, and in
civil cases shall be paid by the party ordering the transcript,
 or when ordered by the judge, by either party, or by both or
 all parties, as the court directs. He shall also be allowed his
 actual traveling expenses when reporting outside of the county
seat.
     (e) Grand jurors and jurors in the superior court shall be
paid seven dollars ($7) a day for each day's attendance,
 and twelve cents ($0.12) per mile each way per each day of
 service. The county clerk shall certify to the auditor the
number of days' attendance and the number of miles traveled
by each juror. The auditor shall draw his warrants for the
fees and mileage due the juror, and the treasurer shall pay
the warrant.
    (f) Witnesses when legally required to attend upon the
superior court in criminal cases and upon the juvenile court
 in juvenile court matters, shall be paid six dollars ($6) a day
2358                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Qh_ J217

for each day's actual attendance, and twelve cents ($0.12) for
each mile actually traveled. The county clerk shall certify to
the auditor the number of days' attendance and the number
of miles traveled by each witness. The auditor shall draw his
warrant for the fees and mileage due the witness, and the
treasurer shall pay the warrant.
   The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
to incumbent officers.

                         CHAPTEE 1217
       An act to amend Section 69891.1 of the Government
                Code, relating to judicial officers.
          TApproved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 69891.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   69891.1. In each county with a population of less than
145,000 and more than 130,000, as determined by the 1960
census, to assist the court in the transaction of its judicial busi-
ness, the judges of the court may appoint one competent judi-
cial secretary skilled in such work for each judge of the
superior court of the county who is to render such service as
the judge may require each day.
   The judicial secretary shall be eligible for such retirement,
insurance, or other benefits as may be available to county em-
ployees.
   The monthly salary, classification, and within-range ad-
vancement of each judical secretary shall be established and
adjusted by approval of the board of supervisors and a ma-
jority of the judges of the court. The salary shall be allowed,
paid, and audited from the same source and in the same man-
ner as may be required for other salary demands against the
county.

                         CHAPTER 1218
An act to amend Sections 73, 1177, and 1182 of the Labor
    Code, relating to the Industrial Welfare Commission.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 73 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   73. The Division of Industrial Welfare shall appoint such
staff as needed to carry out its duties and shall loan such per-
                    1969
Ch. 1218]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2359

sonnel as needed to the commission in the performance of its
respective functions, and shall fix their salaries in accordance
with law. Personnel loaned to the commission shall be under
the supervision of the Chief of the Division of Industrial Wel-
fare.
    It is not the intent of the Legislature that the amendment of
this section made at the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legisla-
ture shall be used to justify a budget request for additional
funds for the division. It is the intent of the Legislature that
at those times when the commission is revising its orders, per-
manent personnel of the division, at no additional budget ex-
pense, be loaned temporarily to assist the commission in the
performance of its functions.
    SEC. 2. Section 1177 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
    1177. The commission may make and enforce rules of prac-
tice and procedure and shall not be bound by the technical
rules of evidence. Bach order of the commission shall include
a statement as to the basis upon which the order is predicated
and shall be concurred in by a majority of the commissioners.
    SEC. 3. Section 1182 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
    1182. After the wage board conference and public hear-
ing, as provided in this chapter, the commission may, upon its
own motion or upon petition, fix:
     (a) A minimum wage to be paid to women and minors en-
gaged in any occupation, trade, or industry in this state,
which shall not be less than a wage adequate to supply the
 necessary costs of proper living to, and maintain the health
 and welfare of such women and minors.
     (b) The maximum hours of work consistent with the health
 and welfare of women and minors engaged in any occupation,
 trade, or industry in this state. The hours so fixed shall not be
 more than the maximum now or hereafter fixed by law.
     (c) The standard conditions of labor demanded by the
 health and welfare of the women and minors engaged in any
 occupation, trade, or industry in this state.
     The commission may thereupon make a mandatory order
 during the first three calendar months of the year, to be effec-
 tive on a date fixed by the commission, which date shall not
 be less than 60 nor more than 90 days from the publication
 thereof, specifying the minimum wage, the maximum hours,
 and the standard conditions of labor for women or minors in
 the occupation, trade, or industry in question. The hours spec-
 ified shall not be more than the maximum for women or minors
 in California. Such order shall be published in at least one
 newspaper in each of the Cities of Los Angeles, Sacramento,
 Oakland, San Jose, Fresno, San Diego, and San Francisco.
2360               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Qfa J 2 1 9

                         CHAPTER 1219
An act to amend Section 5303, and to add Chapter 14 (com-
  mencing with Section 5320) to Part 3 of Division 7, of the
  Streets and Highways Code, relating to assessments of prop-
  erty owned by the State of California.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 5303 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   5303. If the legislative body, in the resolution of intention,
declares that any lot or parcel of land used as provided in Sec-
tion 5301 and owned by the United States or any department
thereof or the State of California or any department thereof
shall be included in the assessment, or if no declaration is made
respecting any such lot or parcel of land, then the city shall be
liable for such sum as may thereafter be assessed against such
lot or parcel of land and which is unpaid after 30 days from
the recordation of the assessment. Such sum shall be payable
by the city out of the general fund unless the legislative body
shall in its resolution of intention designate another fund. The
foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply to any
assessment pursuant to Chapter 14 (commencing with Section
5320) of Part 3 of this division against any such land owned
by the State of California or department thereof, but the city
shall advance the amount of any such assessment in such
assessment proceedings and shall in such case become the
owner of such assessment and entitled to repayment of such
amount with interest thereon at the rate provided in that
chapter from the State of California or any department
thereof.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 14 (commencing with Section 5320) is
added to Part 3 of Division 7 of the Streets and Highways
Code, to read:

        CHAPTER 14. ASSESSMENT OF PEOPEETT OWNED
                BY THE STATE OF CALIFOENIA

  5320. Notwithstanding the terms and provisions of any
other section of this division, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply to and govern the assessment of property owned
by the State of California or any department thereof.
   5321. All real property acquired by the State of California
or any department thereof is property subject to assessment in
proceedings conducted under this division, except real prop-
erty acquired prior to the recordation in the office of the county
recorder of the notice of award of contract pursuant to Section
5248 or Section 10502.1 or the notice of assessment pursuant to
Section 3114, whichever time is earlier, and which is located
                     1969
Ch 12201                    REGULAR SESSION                    2361

within the right-of-way of a state highway or proposed state
highway. For the purposes of this section, property shall be
deemed to have been acquired upon the vesting of title, or the
filing of a condemnation action, whichever occurs first.
    5322. The State of California or any department thereof
that has jurisdiction over any real property subject to assess-
ment as provided in this chapter shall pay the amount of
money assessed against such real property together with any
interest as herein provided. If the State of California or the
department thereof having jurisdiction of the real property
does not pay the amount of money so assessed against such
property on or before the end of the second fiscal year follow-
ing the date when the notice of assessment is recorded pur-
suant to Section 3114, the owner of such assessment shall,
within six months after the end of the second fiscal year, have
the right to file a claim against the State of California in the
manner provided in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
900) and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 910) of P a r t
3 of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the Government Code, and
neither any provision of those chapters nor any statute of
limitation nor any other statutory provision shall bar the
filing of such a claim within such six-months' period.
    5323. The State of California or any department thereof
having jurisdiction over any real property subject to assess-
ment as provided in this chapter shall have the same right
provided for in this division or other applicable law to pay
the amount of money assessed against such real property with-
out interest as does a private person owning property assessed
under this division or such other law.
    5324. Neither the State of California nor any department
thereof that has jurisdiction over any real property assessed,
 as herein provided, shall be obligated to make payment thereof
 until the Legislature has appropriated the amount necessary
 to make payment of such assessment.
    5325. If the State of California or such department thereof
 does not pay the amount of money assessed within 30 days
 after the effective date of the legislation making the appropri-
 ation to pay the assessment, the amount of money assessed
 shall bear interest at the rate of 6 percent per annum until
 paid, commencing with the 31st day after the effective date
 of such appropriation.

                            CHAPTER 1220
An act to amend Sections 27491.6, 27503, and 27504 of, to add
  Sections 27491.7, 27499.1, 27502.2 and 27504.1 to, and to
  repeal Sections 27505, 27506, 27507, 27508, 27509, 27510,
  27513 and Article 4 (commencing with Section 27540) of
  Chapter 10, Part 3, Division 2, Title 3 of, the Government
  Code, relating to coroners.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2362               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 r^Jj ^£20

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
    SECTION 1. Section 27491.6 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    27491.6. The coroner may also, in his discretion, if the cir-
 cumstances warrant, hold an inquest, and he shall hold an in-
 quest if requested to do so by the Attorney General, the dis-
 trict attorney, sheriff, city prosecutor, city attorney, or a chief
 of police of a city in the county in which such coroner has
 jurisdiction. Such inquest shall be held with or without a jury,
 at the coroner's discretion and shall be open to the public.
    SEC. 2. Section 27491.7 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    27491.7. The coroner, his authorized deputy, or a hearing
 officer shall conduct the inquest.
    SEC. 3. Section 27499.1 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
    27499.1. Where the names and addresses of possible wit-
nesses have been furnished to the coroner by the next of kin
 of the deceased, an attorney for the next of kin, or the district
 attorney, the coroner shall, if it reasonably appears' to him that
the persons named are in fact necessary witnesses, subpoena
such persons to appear at the inquest hearing.
    SEC. 5. Section 27502.2 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    27502.2. The inquest verdict or decision shall be inadmissi-
ble as evidence in any civil or criminal proceeding.
    SEC. 6. Section 27503 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    27503. The testimony of the witnesses examined in the
 coroner's inquest shall be filed by the coroner with the county
clerk within 10 days following the inquest.
    SEC. 7. Section 27504 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    27504. After hearing the testimony, the jury shall render
its verdict and certify it by an inquisition in writing signed
by the members of the jury, or the coroner shall render his
decision if the inquest is by the coroner sitting without a jury,
setting forth the name of the deceased, the time and place of
death, the medical cause of death and whether the death was
by (1) natural causes, (2) suicide, (3) accident or (4) at the
hands of another person. Such findings shall not include nor
make any reference to civil or criminal responsibility on the
part of the deceased.
    SEC. 8. Section 27504.1 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    27504.1. If the findings are that the deceased met his death
at the hands of another, the coroner shall, in addition to filing
with the county clerk, transmit his written findings to the dis-
trict attorney, the police agency wherein the dead body was
recovered, and any other police agency requesting copies of
the findings.
                       1969
Ch. 12211                     REGULAR SESSION                   2363

  The findings and conclusions provided for in this article
shall be sufficient to satisfy the cause of death information
required in death certificates under Section 10275 of the
Health and Safety Code.
  SEC. 9. Section 27505 of the Government Code is repealed.
  SEC. 10. Section 27506 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 11. Section 27507 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 12. Section 27508 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 13. Section 27509 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 14. Section 27510 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 15. Section 27513 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 16. Article 4 (commencing with Section 27540) of
Chapter 10 P a r t 3, Division 2, Title 3 of the Government
Code is repealed.

                           CHAPTER 1221
An act to amend Sections 6610 and 6613 of the Streets and
  Highways Code, relating to the Improvement Act of 1911.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 6610 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   6610. As a separate, distinct and cumulative remedy, the
holder of any bond upon which any payment either upon the
principal or of the interest has become delinquent may, if the
city which initiated the proceedings is not a county, at any
time after three months after the date it is provided by ordi-
nance or charter of the city that taxes are due, or if a county
initiated the proceedings or collects the taxes for the city at
any time after four months next succeeding the fourth Mon-
day of September, following the date of delinquency of prin-
cipal or interest and prior to the expiration of four years after
the due date of the last installment upon any bond or of the
last principal coupon attached thereto, file and maintain an
action to foreclose the lien of the bond and recover the amount
due thereon.
   No action shall be commenced pursuant to this section until
the expiration of 15 days after a notice containing the amount
of the payment due, the date the payment is or was due,
penalties which may accrue for failure to pay, and notice of
the foreclosure action which may occur if payment is not made
2364               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQ^   J£22

is mailed, postage prepaid and registered, by the bondholder,
or his representative, to the owner of the property at his last
known address as it appears on the tax rolls.
   SEC. 2. Section 6613 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   6613. The complaint in the action shall be sufficient if it
sets forth a true copy of the bond and makes appropriate alle-
gations regarding the payments made upon the principal and
interest of the bond and the mailing of the notice required
pursuant to Section 6610. If personal demand for payment is
made the complaint shall so allege.


                         CHAPTER 1222
An act to amend and renumber Section 6224 of the Public Re-
  sources Code, as added by Chapter 1397 of the Statutes of
  1968, and to amend Section 2 of Chapter 1397 of the Stat-
  utes of the 1968 Regular Session, relating to Lake Tahoe,
  and making an appropriation therefor.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
    SECTION 1. Section 6224 of the Public Resources Code, as
added by Chapter 1397 of the Statutes of 1968, is amended
and renumbered to read:
    6225. (a) The commission shall conduct research, investi-
gations, and title searches on the real property in this state of
the beaches of Lake Tahoe which is dedicated for public use
and make a report of its findings which shall be open for pub-
lic inspection. For the purpose of this section the commission
may contract upon such terms and conditions as will be in the
best interest of the people of the state with one or more private
persons, firms, associations, organizations, partnerships, corpo-
rations, companies, or public agencies to conduct such research,
investigations, and title searches.
    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever
it appears by final decree of any court of competent jurisdic-
tion that title to any beach property of Lake Tahoe, for which
the commission in cooperation with the county has conducted a
title search, is vested in a county, the county shall dedicate
such beach property to the state.
    (c) The state shall be under no obligation to operate and
maintain the beach property so dedicated to the state. The
county or a public agency in which the beach property is situ-
ated may, subject to approval of the commission, operate,
maintain, or make improvements on such beach property.
   SEC. 2. Section 2 of Chapter 1397 of the Statutes of the
1968 Regular Session is amended to read:
                        1969
Ch. 1124]                      REGULAR SESSION                          2365

  Sec. 2. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund the sum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000) to the
State Lands Commission for the purpose of conducting re-
search, investigations, and title searches on the real property
in this state of the beaches of Lake Tahoe.


                           CHAPTER 1223
     An act to amend Section 9021 of the Education              Code,
               relating to student organizations.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 9021 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   9021. During school hours, and within one hour before the
time of opening and within one hour after the time of closing
of school, pupils of the public school shall not be solicited on
school premises by teachers or others to subscribe or contribute
to the funds of, to become members of, or to work for, any
organization not directly under the control of the school au-
thorities, unless the organization is a nonpartisan, charitable
organization organized for charitable purposes by an act of
Congress, the purpose of the solicitation is nonpartisan and
charitable, and the solicitation has been approved by the
county board of education or by the governing board of the
school district in which the school is located.


                               CHAPTER 1224
An act to add Article 3 (commencing with Section 23101) to
  Chapter 1 of Division 17 of the Education Code, relating
  to public meetings of the Regents of the University of Cali-
  fornia.
             [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                    Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 3 (commencing with Section 23101) is
added to Chapter 1 of Division 17 of the Education Code, to
read:
            Article 3. Meetings of the Regents
   23101. All meetings of the Regents of the University of
California shall, except as otherwise provided in this section,
be open to the public. The corporation shall establish the
time and place for holding regular meetings, but may, as
2366               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1225

occasioned by necessity, hold special meetings. Public notice
shall be given for such meetings. Such notice shall be given by
notifying any newspaper of general circulation or any tele-
vision or radio station, and shall be delivered personally or by
mail so that the notice may be published or broadcast at least
24 hours before the time of such meeting.
   The Regents of the University of California may also hold
executive sessions when it meets to consider or discuss: (a)
matters relating to or affecting the national security; (b) the
conferring of honorary degrees or other honors or commemora-
tions; (c) those matters involving gifts, devises and bequests;
 (d) matters involving purchase and sale of investments for
endowment and pension funds; (e) matters involving litigation
when discussion in open session concerning such matters would
adversely affect or be detrimental to the public interest; (f)
matters involving acquisition and disposition of property;
 (g) matters relating to the appointment, employment, perform-
ance, compensation, or dismissal of officers and employees; and
 (h) matters relating to complaints or charges brought against
officers or employees of the university, unless such officer or
employee requests a public hearing. There also may be ex-
cluded from any such public or private meeting during the
examination of a witness, any or all other witnesses in the
matter being investigated.
   SEC. 2. If the Legislature adopts a partial revision to the
Constitution which includes a proposed open-meeting require-
ment appended to Section 9 of Article IX, at the 1970 Regu-
lar Session, Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 12 of the
1969 Eegular Session shall not be submitted to the people and
shall be of no effect. In such event, the Secretary of State shall
not place such measure on any 1970 election ballot.
   SEC. 3. Section 1 of this act shall become operative only if,
at a statewide election held in 1970, the amendment to Section
9 of Article I X of the California Constitution proposed by
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 12 of the 1969
Eegular Session is submitted to and is approved by the electors.
In such event, Section 1 of this act shall become operative at
the same time as Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 12
takes effect.

                         CHAPTBE 1225
An act to amend Sections 8664, 8710, 8710.5, 8920, and 8920.5
  of, and to repeal Section 8603 of, the Elections Code, relat-
  ing to state and county central committees.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION   1.   Section 8603 of the Elections Code is repealed.
                    1969
Ch. 1226]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2367

    SEC. 2. Section 8664 of the Elections Code is amended to
 read:
    8664. Appointments of members to this committee shall be
 made in writing signed by the delegate under penalty of per-
 jury and delivered to the Secretary of State not later than 5
 o 'clock of the afternoon of the Tuesday immediately preceding
the Sunday on which the first meeting of the committee is to
be held.
    SEC. 3. Section 8710 of the Elections Code is amended to
read:
    8710. This committee shall convene at Sacramento at 10
o'clock a.m. of the fourth Sunday of January after a general
election.
    SEC. 3.5. Section 8710.5 is added to the Elections Code, to
read:
    8710.5. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the con-
trary, the state central committee meeting of a political party
subject to Part 4 (commencing with Section 9600) of Division
6 of this code shall convene at Sacramento at 10 o'clock a.m.
of the day following the state convention of such party.
    SEC. 4. Section 8920 of the Elections Code is amended to
read:
    8920. Each committee shall meet in the courthouse at its
county seat, upon call, which shall be given by the county clerk
of the county and in quarters to be arranged or provided for
by the county clerk of the county, on the second Monday after
the first day in January following the direct primary election.
    SEC. 4.5. Section 8920.5 is added to the Elections Code,
to read:
    8920.5. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the con-
trary, the county central committees of a political party sub-
ject to Part 4 (commencing with Section 9600) of Division 6
of this code shall meet on the second Tuesday in July follow-
ing the direct primary election, except that in any year in
which a national convention of such party includes that date,
the existing executive committee of a committee of that party
shall set the date of the meeting, not to exceed 30 days after
the date herein specified.
    SEC. 5. The present state and county central committees of
the Democratic Party shall continue in office until the organi-
zational meeting in January 1971.
    SEC. 6. In the event that Assembly Bill No. 2252 of the
1969 Eegular Session is not enacted into law, Sections 8710.5
and 8920.5 as added to the Elections Code by this act shall be
repealed.

                       CHAPTER 1226
An act to amend Sections 20124, 20860 and 20860.5 of, to add
  Article 5 (commencing with Section 20930) to Chapter 7 of
  Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of, to repeal Sections 20801.5,
   75—1954
2368              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [CJj J 2 2 6

  20804.5, 20804.51, 20804.52, 20804.6, 20804.7, 20805.5,
  20810.5, 20810.6, 20811, 20812, 20813, 20814.5, 20815, 20816,
  20817, 20818, 20820, 20896, 20897, 20897.1, 21253.1 and
  21253.15 of, and to repeal Article 5 (commencing with Sec-
  tion 20920) and Article 6 (commencing with Section 20930)
  of Chapter 7 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of, the Gov-
  ernment Code, relating to the Public Employees'    Retirement
  System.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
    SECTION 1. Section 20124 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    20124. The board shall determine who are employees and
 is the sole judge of the conditions under which persons may
 be admitted to and continue to receive benefits under this
 system.
    SEC. 2. Section 20801.5 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 3. Section 20804.5 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 4. Section 20804.51 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 5. Section 20804.52 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 6. Section 20804.6 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 7. Section 20804.7 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 8. Section 20805.5 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 9. Section 20810.5 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 10. Section 20810.6 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 11. Section 20811 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 12. Section 20812 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 13. Section 20813 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 14. Section 20814.5 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 15. Section 20815 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 20816 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 17. Section 20817 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 18. Section 20818 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 19. Section 20820 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 20. Section 20860 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1226]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2369

   20860. Except as provided in Articles 4 (commencing with
Section 20890) and 5 (commencing with Section 20930), time
during which a member is absent from state service without
compensation shall not be allowed in computing service.
   SEC. 21. Section 20860.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read :
   20860.5. Time during which a member is excused from
performance of his duties, whether or not he is required to
perform any portion of such duties during such time, and for
which he receives compensation, but in an amount less than
the full compensation earnable by him while performing his
duties when not so excused, such as sabbatical leave, shall be
credited as service in the proportion that the compensation
paid to the member bears to the full compensation which
would be earnable by him while performing his duties on a
full-time basis; provided, however, that any such member shall
receive full-time credit for such time if after returning to the
employment from which he was excused and at any time prior
to retirement he elects to and does contribute to the retire-
ment fund the amount necessary to make the accumulated
contributions standing to his credit in his individual account
the amount it would be had he not been so absent plus the
contributions that would have been made by his employer
in respect to him had he not been so absent plus the interest
which would have accrued to such member and employer con-
tributions if they had been made on the date of his return
to employment. Payments shall be by lump sum at the time
of election or in installments beginning immediately upon such
election and subject to board rule.
   SEC. 22. Section 20896 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 23. Section 20897 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 24. Section 20897.1 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 25. Article 5 (commencing with Section 20920) of
Chapter 7 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government
Code is repealed.
   SEC. 26. Article 6 (commencing with Section 20930) of
Chapter 7 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government
Code is repealed.
   SEC. 27. Article 5 (commencing with Section 20930) is
added to Chapter 7 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of the
Government Code, to read:

                  Article 5.   Public Service
  20930. ' ' Public service'' for purposes of this article means
the following:
   (a) Employment of the state or a contracting agency while
not a member of this system, but after persons employed in
the status of the member were eligible for membership in this
system.
2370               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo 1 2 2 6

     (b) Employment of the state or a contracting agency while
 the employee was excluded from membership because of serv-
 ing on a part-time basis or because of his failure to exercise
 his right of election of membership under Section 20360, 20361
 or 20364.
     (c) Employment of the state or a contracting agency while
 the employee was excluded from membership in an employ-
 ment in which persons since have become eligible for member-
 ship and which is not creditable to the member under other
 provisions of this part.
     (d) Employment in the State Emergency Relief Adminis-
 tration or the State Relief Administration subsequent to March,
 1933, regardless of the source of the compensation paid for
 such employment.
     (e) Employment as an academic employee of the University
 of California prior to 1963; provided, however, that any mem-
 ber electing to receive credit for such public service shall in
 addition to other contributions required by this article con-
 tribute an amount equal to the contributions which would have
 been made on his behalf by the state had he been in member-
 ship during such employment, assuming that the state rate of
 contribution in effect at the time of election had been in effect
 during such employment.
     (f) Employment of the state in which the person was not
 eligible for membership in the system if such ineligibility was
 solely because his compensation was paid from other than
 state-controlled funds; provided, however, that time spent in
 work as a work relief recipient under programs such as, but
 not limited to, the Works Progress Administration, the Civil
 Works Administration, the Federal Emergency Relief Ad-
 ministration, the National Youth Administration, and the
 Civilian Conservation Corps, shall not constitute public serv-
ice.
    (g) Employment in a function formerly performed by a
public agency other than a contracting agency and assumed
by a contracting agency where the employees who performed
such functions are or were transferred to or employed by such
contracting agency without change in occupation or position.
    (h) Time prior to November 8, 1967, during which a person
performed court reporting duties in connection with civil
court cases in the superior court for which he was compensated
by fees paid by litigants other than the county, if the person
is also credited with service as a court reporter in the supe-
rior court of the same county for which he received compensa-
tion on a per diem basis; provided, however, that such time
shall not constitute public service with respect to any con-
tracting agency or its employees unless the agency so elects by
amendment to its contract.
    (i) Time during which a member is excused from perform-
ance of his duties on approved leave for the purpose of service
of up to two years with a university, college, local, state, fed-
                   1969
Ch. 12261                 REGULAR SESSION                 2371

eral or foreign governmental agency or nonprofit organization,
if he returns to the employment from which the leave was
granted; provided, however, that any member electing to re-
ceive credit for such public service shall in addition to con-
tributions otherwise required by this article contribute an
amount equal to the contribution that would have been made
by his employer in respect to him had he not been absent,
assuming that the employer rate of contribution in effect at
the time of election had been in effect during the absence.
    (j) Absence from state service because of illness which
arose out of and in the course of employment and for which
the member received temporary disability benefits under the
Labor Code during such absence and did not receive full
compensation, as distinguished from such disability benefits
for the period of absence.
    (k) Civilian service as an employee or officer of an agency
of the government of the United States which performed
functions the same as or substantially similar to those per-
formed by this state prior to January 1, 1942, and which were
transferred from the state to such agency, including military
service in any branch of the armed forces of the United States
performed by an individual on military leave of absence from
such federal employment, if all the following conditions
exist:
    (1) Prior to performing such federal service he was em-
ployed by the state.
    (2) He was laid off from state service or would have been so
laid off if he had not been absent in military service because
of the transfer of the functions of the state to an agency of
the United States government.
    (3) Subsequent to his layoff from state service he was em-
ployed by the United States government in an agency per-
forming functions the same as or substantially similar to those
of the state agency from which he was laid off.
    (4) After his separation from federal service, he was em-
ployed by a state agency or
    (5) In lieu of subparagraphs (1), (2), and (3), the United
 States government pays to the state or an agency of the state,
funds equal to contributions which would have been made by
the state had the member been in state service for the period
 of his public service with respect to members who were not
 employed by the state prior to entering such federal employ-
 ment or whose state service prior to entering such federal
 employment was terminated for reasons other than the trans-
 fer of the function.
    20931. A member may elect at any time prior to retire-
 ment, in accordance with regulations of the board, to receive
 credit for public service in addition to his current and prior
 service credit. An election shall be effective only if accom-
 panied by a lump-sum payment of the contributions and in-
 terest required for such credit or by authorization for imme-
2372              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               fQfr   1226

diate institution of payroll deduction of installment payment
of such contributions and interest. The right of election is sub-
ject to Sections 20809 and 20861, and shall be ineffective with
respect to any time or employment for which the member sub-
sequently becomes entitled to or eligible to elect to receive
service credit in another system supported in whole or in part
from public funds, in which case accumulated contributions
on deposit for such period of service credit shall be paid to the
member.
   20932. A member electing to receive credit for public
service shall contribute in a lump sum or by installment pay-
ments over such period and subject to such minimum pay-
ments as may be prescribed by regulations of the board an
amount equal to (a) the contributions he would have made to
the system for the period for which current service credit is
granted, assuming that the rate of contribution under his em-
ployer's formula at the rate age applicable to him at the be-
ginning of his first subsequent period of service in membership
 and his compensation earnable on that date had applied to
him during the period for which credit is granted, plus (b)
such added contribution as may be specially required under
this article as a condition for crediting particular public
service, plus (c) the interest which would have accrued to
such contributions if they had been deposited at the beginning
date of his first subsequent period of service in membership,
from that date until the date of completion of payments as-
suming that the annual interest rate in effect on date of
 election had been in effect throughout such period. The be-
ginning date of the first subsequent period of service for pur-
poses of computation of contribution and interest shall be
 deemed to be the end of the period of service credited for a
member who has no subsequent return to service.
   All contributions of a member under this article shall be
considered to be and shall be administered as normal contri-
butions.
   20933. Public service shall be credited as current or prior
service, or both, as it would be credited if the member had
been in state service during his public service. Credit shall not
be granted for public service which would be credited as prior
service unless the member has contributed for all "public
service" for which he is entitled to elect to receive credit as
current service.
   Benefits based on credited public service shall be computed
according to the formula determining the member's contribu-
tion for such service credit. "Public service," as defined in
subdivisions (a), (b), and (c) of Section 20930 to a member
who at membership became subject to a reduced or modified
retirement allowance formula because of coordination with the
federal system shall be subject to such modified formula to the
extent that the service was rendered to any contracting
agency in which such modified formula applies after the ef-
                        1969
Ch. 1227]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2373

fective date of coverage under the federal system of members
in the employ of that agency.
   20934. Benefits based on service credited under this article
in excess of the portion paid from member contributions shall
be paid, in case of credit for an absence, from contributions
of the employer from whose employment the member was
absent or from the contributions of the employer in whose em-
ployment the service was rendered or the right to receive the
service credit for an employment constituting public service
was acquired, whichever the case may be.
   20935. Service credited on the effective date of this article
or under a member's election received on or before such effec-
tive date, in addition to a member's current and prior service,
under this part as it read on the day prior to the effective date
of this article, shall be retained subject to the terms and con-
ditions of the provision under which it was credited.
   SEC. 28. Section 21253.1 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 29. Section 21253.15 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 30. This act shall become operative on the first day
of the month following the month in which statutes enacted
at the 1969 Eegular Session are effective.


                           CHAPTER 1227
An act to amend Sections 20334, 20950.7, and 21264 of, to add
  Article 5 (commencing with Section 21150) to Chapter 8 of
  Part 3, of Division 5 of Title 2 of, and to repeal Article 5
  (commencing with Section 21150) of Chapter 8 of Part 3 of
  Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and to amend
  Section 13592.1 of the Education Code, relating to the Pub-
  lic Employees' Retirement     System.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20334 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   20334. An employee serving on a part-time basis is ex-
cluded from this system unless:
   (a) He became a member prior to the time this part becomes
effective and continues to be a member by reason of Section
20301;
   (b) His employment is regular and continuous and in the
opinion of the board will extend for more than one year, and
requires service for at least one-half the time required of
employees in the same group or class, serving on a full-time
basis;
2374              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ ( ^ 1227

   (c) He is a member at the time he commences to serve on a
part-time basis;
   (d) He holds or is on retirement in this system after having
held a state office having a term in excess of four years and a
salary not less than three hundred dollars ($300) a month and
elects to become a member of this system under Section 20360
or Section 20361; or
   (e) He is a member of the California Women's Board of
Terms and Parole and elects to become a member of this system
under Section 20360.
   SEC. 2. Section 20950.7 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   20950.7. A law enforcement member shall be retired for
service upon his written application to the board if he has
attained age 50 and is entitled to be credited with 20 years
of state service or the amount of his accumulated contributions
standing to his credit exceeds five hundred dollars ($500).
   SEC. 3. Article 5 (commencing with Section 21150) of
Chapter 8 of Part 3, of Division 5 of Title 2 of the Govern-
ment Code is repealed.
  SEC. 4. Article 5 (commencing with Section 21150) is
added to Chapter 8 of Part 3, of Division 5 of Title 2 of the
Government Code, to read:

            Article 5. Services After Retirement
   21150. A person who has been retired under this system,
for service or for disability, shall not be employed in any
capacity thereafter by the state, the university, a school dis-
trict or by a contracting agency unless he has first been
reinstated from retirement pursuant to this chapter or unless
such employment, without reinstatement, is authorized by this
article. Any person employed in violation of this section and
any public officer who knowingly employs or appoints him
shall be jointly and severally liable to reimburse the state or
the contracting agency, as the case may be, for any compen-
sation paid in such employment. A retired person whose em-
ployment without reinstatement is authorized by this article
shall acquire no service credit or retirement rights under this
part with respect to such employment.
   21151. A retired person may serve without reinstatement
from retirement or loss or interruption of benefits provided by
this system,
   (a) As a member of any nonsalaried board, commission or
advisory committee, upon appointment by the Governor, di-
rector of a state department, or the governing board of the
contracting agency; provided, however, that such appointment
shall not be deemed employment within the meaning of Di-
vision 4 (commencing with Section 3201) and Division 4.5
(commencing with Section 6100) of the Labor Code, and shall
                     1969
 Ch. 12271                  REGULAR SESSION                 2375

  not provide a basis for the payment of workmen's compensa-
  tion to a retired state employee or to his dependents.
     (b) As a school crossing guard upon employment by con-
  tracting agencies; provided, he is a retired local policeman or
  sheriff's deputy.
     (c) As a juror or election officer.
     (d) As an elective officer on and after September 15, 1961;
  provided, however, that all rights and immunities which may
  have accrued under Section 21158 as it read prior to that
  section's repeal during the 1969 Regular Session of the Legis-
  lature are hereby preserved.
     (e) As an appointive member of the governing body of a
 contracting agency; provided the compensation for such office
 does not exceed one hundred dollars ($100) per month. '
     (f) Upon appointment by the Legislature, or either house,
 or a legislative committee to a position deemed by such ap-
 pointing power to be temporary in nature.
    21152. A retired person may serve without reinstatement
 from retirement or loss or interruption of benefits provided
 under this system upon approval of the State Board of Con-
 trol, under employment by any state agency in which he pre-
 viously served while a member of this system, where by reason
 of actual litigation, or a proceeding before the State Board of
 Control, or where such agency desires to perpetuate testi-
mony in connection with any anticipated litigation involving
the state, or such agency, and adverse interests, the services
of such person are or may be necessary in preparing for trial
or in testifying as to matters within or based upon his knowl-
edge acquired while employed. He may be paid a per diem
and actual and necessary traveling expenses, but he shall not
be paid at a greater rate of compensation per diem than the
rate ordinarily paid other persons by state agencies for similar
services. However, there shall be deducted from such per diem
compensation sums equal to the retirement annuity allocable
to the days of actual employment hereunder.
    21153. A retired person may serve without reinstatement
from retirement or loss or interruption of benefits provided by
this system upon appointment by the appointing power of a
state agency or any other employer either during an emer-
gency to prevent stoppage of public business or because the
retired employee has skills needed in performing specialized
work of limited duration. Such appointments shall not exceed
a total for all employers of 60 working days in any calendar
year, and the rate of pay for such employment shall not be
less than the minimum, nor exceed that paid by the employer
to other employees performing comparable duties. Authority
for employment granted by this section shall be in addition
to and not in limitation of authority granted by other sections
under this article.
    21154. A retired person may serve without reinstatement
from retirement or loss or interruption of benefits provided
 2376               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                r £ n > J227

  by this system as a substitute in a position requiring certifica-
  tion qualifications, pursuant to Section 25558 or 25804 of the
  Education Code, at the California School for the Deaf or the
  California School for the Blind; provided, that the total of
  such service and any service rendered pursuant to Section
  14376 of the Education Code shall not exceed 90 teaching days
  in any fiscal year.
     21155. A retired person may serve without reinstatement
  from retirement or loss or interruption of benefits provided
  by this1 system as a member of the academic staff of a state
  college or of the University of California; provided, that such
  service shall not exceed 90 working days in any fiscal year,
  and the compensation payable to such person for such service
  shall not exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000) in that fiscal
 year.
     SEC. 5. Section 21264 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
     21264. Upon the death of a local safety member after the
  effective date of this section and after the effective date of his
 retirement for service or for industrial disability, including
 such members heretofore and hereafter retired, one-half his
 retirement allowance as it was at his death, excluding any
 portion of said allowance which is based on service other
 than service credited to him as a local safety member or
 any service rendered as' an employee of the state or a
 contracting agency not subject to the provisions of this sec-
 tion or which was derived from accumulated additional con-
 tributions of the member, shall be continued throughout life
 or until remarriage, to his surviving spouse. If there be no
 surviving spouse entitled to an allowance hereunder, or if she
 die or remarry before every child of such deceased member
 attains the age of 18 years, then the allowance which the sur-
 viving spouse would have received had she lived and not re-
 married shall be paid to his child or children under said age,
 collectively, to continue until every such child dies or attains
said age; provided, that no child shall receive any allowance
after marrying or attaining the age of 18 years. Should said
member leave no surviving spouse and no children under the
 age of 18 years, but leave a parent or parents dependent upon
him for support, the parents so dependent shall collectively
receive a monthly allowance equal to that which a surviving
spouse otherwise would have received, during such dependency.
No allowance, however, shall be paid under this section to a
surviving spouse unless she was married to the member at
least one year prior to his retirement. If at the effective date
of said retirement, said member has no spouse, children or
dependent parents, who would so qualify and if said member
elects as provided in Section 21330 to have the actuarial equiv-
alent of his retirement allowance applied to a lesser retirement
allowance, in accordance with an optional settlement, no al-
lowance shall be paid under this Section 21264.
                       1969
Ch. 1228]                     REGULAR SESSION                  2377

   This section shall not apply to any contracting agency nor
to the employees of any contracting agency unless and until
the agency elects to be subject to the provisions of this section
by amendment to its contract made in the manner prescribed
for approval of contracts, except that an election among the
employees is not required, or, in the case of contracts made
after the date this section takes effect, by express provision in
such contract making the contracting agency subject to the
provisions of this section.
   This section applies to the surviving husband of a local
safety member, but only if ho was dependent upon her, as well
as the surviving wife of a local safety member.
   SEC. 6. Section 13592.1 of the Education Code is amended
to read .-
   13592.1. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (c)
of Section 13592, a retired classified school employee may be
employed by a school district, but only in accordance with the
provisions of Article 5 (commencing with Section 21150) of
Chapter 8 of Part 3 of Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government
Code.
   This section shall apply to districts that have adopted the
merit system in the same manner and effect as if it were a
part of Article 5 (commencing with Section 13701) of this
chapter.
   SEC. 7. This act shall become operative on the first of the
month following the month in which statutes enacted at the
1969 Regular Session are effective.


                           CHAPTER 1228
An act to add Article 4.5 (commencing with Section 21690.5)
  to Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 9 of the Public Utilities
  Code, relating to airport relocation and development.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969 Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1989.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 4.5 (commencing with Section 21690.5)
is added to Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 9 of the Public
Utilities Code, to read:

      Article 4.5. Airport Relocation and Development
   21690.5. This article may be cited as the "California Legis-
lature Airports, Airways and Airport Terminals Development
and Relocation Act of 1969."
   21690.6. The Legislature hereby finds that the state's air-
port and airway system is inadequate to meet current and
projected growth in aviation and that substantial expansion
2378               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Ch. 1228

and improvement of the system is required to meet the de-
mands of interstate and intrastate commerce, the postal service
and the national defense. The Legislature finds that users of
air transportation are capable of making a greater financial
contribution to the expansion and improvement of the system
through increased user fees. The Legislature finds, however,
that such users should not be required to provide all of the
funds necessary for future development of the system, and
that revenues obtained from the general taxpayer will continue
to be required to pay for the use of such facilities by the
military and for the value to national defense and the general
public benefit in having a safe, efficient airport and airway
system available and fully operational in the event of war or
national emergency. The Legislature also finds that the con-
tinued development and expansion of an adequate and up-to-
date comprehensive state airport and airway system will re-
quire the acquisition of agricultural, residential, commercial,
industrial and miscellaneous types of properties for the same;
and that many persons and businesses will have to be relocated.
The Legislature finds further that it is in the best interests of
the people of the State of California to help all those persons
forced to relocate when airport expansion and construction
requires them to lose their businesses and homes. I t is the
purpose of this act to provide the means by which adequate
compensation and immediate assistance will be provided for
relocation and moving expenses and other costs involved in the
necessary moving of a business or home to make way for air-
port expansion and development.
   21690.7. (a) "Displaced person" means any individual,
family, business or farm operation which moves from real
property acquired for federal, state or local airport expansion
and development.
   (b) " I n d i v i d u a l " means a person who is not a member of
a family.
   (c) " F a m i l y " means two or more persons living together
in the same dwelling unit who are related to each other by
blood, marriage, adoption or legal guardianship.
   (d) "Business" means any lawful activity conducted pri-
marily for the purchase and resale, manufacture, processing or
marketing of products, commodities, or other personal prop-
erty, or for the sale of services to the public, or by a nonprofit
corporation.
   (e) " F a r m operation" means any activity conducted pri-
marily for the production of one or more agricultural products
or commodities for sale and home use, and customarily pro-
ducing such commodities or products in sufficient quantity to
be capable of contributing materially to the operator's support.
   (f) "Airport expansion and development" means the con-
struction, alteration, improvement, or repair of airport hang-
ars ; airport passenger or freight terminal buildings and other
buildings required for the administration of an airport; public
                    1969
Ch. 1228]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2379

parking facilities for passenger automobiles; roads within the
airport boundaries; and any acquisition of land adjacent to or
in the immediate vicinity of a public airport, including any
interest therein, or any easement through or any other interest
in airspace, for the purpose of assuring that activities and
operations conducted thereon will be compatible with normal
airport operations.
   (g) "Public entity" includes the state, the Eegents of the
University of California, a county, city, city and county, dis-
trict, public authority, public agency, and any other political
subdivision or public corporation in the state when acquiring
real property or any interest therein for airport expansion and
development, except the Department of Public Works of this
state.
   21690.8. The payment of moving expenses shall be made
to eligible persons in accordance with the provisions of this
act and such rules and regulations as shall be adopted by the
public entity.
   21690.9. The public entity is authorized to adopt rules and
regulations to implement the payment of moving expenses as
authorized by this act. Such rules and regulations may include
provisions authorizing payments to individuals and families
of fixed amounts not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200)
in lieu of their respective reasonable and necessary moving
expenses.
   21690.10. The public entity is authorized to give reloca-
tion advisory assistance to any individual, family, business or
farm operation displaced because of the acquisition of real
property for any state or federal airport project.
   21690.11. In giving relocation advisory assistance, the pub-
lic entity may establish a local relocation advisory assistance
office to assist in obtaining replacement facilities for individ-
uals, families and businesses affected by airport expansion or
development.
   21690.12. (a) As a part of the cost of construction the
public entity may compensate a displaced person for his actual
and reasonable expenses in moving himself, family, business
or farm operation, including moving personal property.
    (b) Any displaced person who moves from a dwelling may
elect to receive in lieu of his actual and reasonable moving
expenses a moving expense allowance, determined according to
 a schedule established by the public entity not to exceed two
 hundred dollars ($200), and in addition a dislocation allow-
 ance of one hundred dollars ($100).
    (c) Any displaced person who moves or discontinues his
business or farm operation may elect to receive in lieu of
his actual and reasonable moving expenses a fixed relocation
 payment in an amount equal to the average annual net earn-
 ings of the business or farm operation, or five thousand dollars
 ($5,000), whichever is lesser. In the case of a business, no pay-
 ment shall be made under this subdivision unless the public
2380              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              r(J}1_ J 2 2 8

entity is satisfied that the business cannot be relocated with-
out a substantial loss of patronage, and is not a part of a
commercial enterprise having at least one other establishment,
not being acquired, which is engaged in the same or similar
business. For purposes of this subdivision, the term "average
annual net earnings" means one-half of any net earnings of
the business or farm operation, before federal, state and local
income taxes, during the two taxable years immediately pre-
ceding the taxable year in which such business or farm
operation moves from the real property acquired for stich
project, and includes compensation paid by the business or
farm operation to the owner, his spouse, or his dependents dur-
ing such two-year period. To be eligible for the payment
authorized by this subdivision the business or farm operation
must make its state income tax returns available and its finan-
cial statements and accounting records available for audit for
confidential use to determine the payment authorized by this
subdivision.
   21690.13. In addition to the payments authorized by Section
 21690.12, the public entity, as a part of the cost of construc-
tion, may make a payment to the owner of real property ac-
quired for an airport project, which is improved with a single-,
two- or three-family dwelling actually owned and operated by
the owner for not less than one year prior to the first writ-
ten offer for the acquisition of such property. Such payment
shall be the amount, if any, which, when added to the acquisi-
tion payment, equals the average price required for a compa-
rable dwelling determined, in accordance with standards estab-
lished by the public entity, to be a decent, safe, and sanitary
dwelling adequate to accommodate the displaced owner, rea-
sonably accessible to public services and place of employment
and available on the market. Such payment shall be made only
to the displaced owner who purchases a dwelling, that meets
standards established by the public entity, within one year
subsequent to the date on which he is required to move from
the dwelling acquired for the project.
   21690.14. In addition to the payment authorized by Section
21690.12, as a part of the cost of construction, the public
entity may make a payment to any individual or family dis-
placed from any dwelling not eligible to receive a payment
under Section 21690.13, which dwelling was actually and law-
fully occupied by such individual or family for not less than
90 days prior to first written offer for the acquisition of such
property. Such payment, not to exceed one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500), shall be the additional amount
which is necessary to enable such individual or family to lease
or rent for a period not to exceed two years, or to make the
downpayment on the purchase of a decent, safe, and sanitary
dwelling of standards adequate to accommodate such indi-
vidual or family in areas not generally less desirable in regard
to public utilities and public and commercial facilities.
                        1969
Ch. 1229]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2381

    21690.15. Any displaced person aggrieved by a determina-
 tion as to eligibility for a payment authorized by this act, or
the amount of a payment, may have Ms application reviewed
by the public entity. This review shall include the right to the
appointment of an independent appraiser approved by the
 owner to review the amount of the award under Section
21690.13.
    21690.16. The public entity is authorized to adopt rules
and regulations relating to relocation assistance as may be
necessary or desirable under state and federal laws and the
rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such rules and
regulations shall include provisions relating t o :
    (a) A moving expense allowance, as provided in Section
21690.12, subdivision (b), for a displaced person who moves
from a dwelling, determined according to a schedule, not to
exceed two hundred dollars ($200) ;
    (b) The standards for decent, safe and sanitary dwellings;
    (c) Procedure for an aggrieved displaced person to have
his determination of eligibility or amount of payment reviewed
by the public entity; and
    (d) Eligibility for relocation assistance payments and the
procedure for claiming such payments and the amounts thereof.
   21690.17. No payment received by a displaced person under
this act shall be considered as income for the purposes of the
Personal Income Tax Law or the Bank and Corporation Tax
Law, nor shall such payments be considered as income of
resources to any recipient of public assistance and such pay-
ments shall not be deducted from the amount of aid to which
the recipient would otherwise be entitled under P a r t 3 (com-
mencing with Section 11000) of Division 9 of the "Welfare and
Institutions Code.
    SEC. 2. Nothing contained in this act shall be construed as
creating in any condemnation proceedings brought under the
power of eminent domain, any element of damages not in
existence on the date of enactment of this act.
   SEC. 3. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the provisions or applications of the
act which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.

                           CHAPTER 1229
      An act to amend Section 22654 of the Vehicle Code,
                relating to removal of vehicles.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2382               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1229

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 22654 of the Vehicle Code is amended
 to read:
    22654. (a) Whenever any peace officer finds a vehicle
  standing upon a highway in violation of Sections 22500 and
  22504, the officer may move the vehicle or require the driver or
  other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same to the
 nearest available position off the roadway or to the nearest
 parking location, or may remove and store the vehicle if mov-
 ing it off the roadway at a parking location is impracticable.
     (b) Whenever a peace officer finds a vehicle standing upon
 a street in violation of a traffic ordinance enacted by local au-
 thorities to prevent flooding of adjacent property, he may
 move the vehicle or require the driver or person in charge of
 the vehicle to move the same to the nearest available location
 in the vicinity where parking is permitted.
     (c) Any state, county or city authority charged with the
 maintenance of any highway may move any vehicle which is
 disabled or abandoned or which constitutes an obstruction to
 traffic from the place where located on a highway to the near-
 est available position on the same highway as may be necessary
 to keep the highway open or safe for public travel.
     (d) Any state, county or city authority charged with the
 maintenance or operation of any highway, highway facility or
 public works facility, in cases necessitating the prompt per-
 formance of any work on or service to such highway, highway
 facility or public works facility, may move to the nearest
 available location where parking is permitted, any unattended
vehicle which obstructs or interferes with the performance of
 such work or service or may remove and store such a vehicle
if moving it off the roadway to a location where parking is
 available would be impractical. If the vehicle is moved to
another location where it is not readily visible from its former
parked location or it is stored, the person causing such move-
ment or storage of the vehicle shall immediately, by the most
expeditious means, notify the owner of the vehicle of its loca-
tion. If for any reason the vehicle owner cannot be so notified,
the person causing the vehicle to be moved or stored shall
immediately, by the most expeditious means, notify the police
department of the city in which the vehicle was parked, or, if
the vehicle had been parked in an unincorporated area of a
county, notify the sheriff's department and nearest office of the
California Highway Patrol in that county. No vehicle may be
removed and stored pursuant to this subdivision unless signs
indicating that no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle within the areas marked by the signs because such
work or service would be done, were placed at least 24 hours
prior to such movement or removal and storage.
                        1969
Ch. 1231]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2383

                           CHAPTER 1230
An act to amend Section 220.2 of the Labor Code, relating to
              public employee fringe benefits.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 220.2 of the Labor Code is amended to
read •.
   220.2. Contributions to vacation allowances, pension or
retirement funds, sick leave, and health and welfare benefits
 on behalf of persons employed by any county, political sub-
 division, incorporated city or town or other municipal corpo-
rations may be made in the same manner and on the same
basis as made by private employers.
   Payments made by the employing; agency to any such fund
on behalf of any employee shall be in lieu of benefits such as
vacation allowance, pension or retirement fund, sick leave,
and health and welfare benefits which are now or may here-
after be granted directly by the employing agency in accord-
ance with law.
   This section shall only apply to nonpermanent laborers,
workmen, and mechanics employed on an hourly or per diem
basis.
   The employing agency is empowered to determine the equi-
table application of this section to insure that the employees
receive benefits comparable to, but not in excess of those pro-
vided in comparable private employment.
   The employing agency shall make payments only to plans
which meet the following standards:
   1. A plan office is located within the State of California.
   2. Any fund connected with the plan is required to be
audited at least annually by an independent, licensed certified
public accountant.
   3. Each trustee or administrator of the fund or plan au-
thorized to receive, handle, deal with or draw upon the assets
of the fund or plan is required to be bonded.


                           CHAPTER 1231
An act to amend Sections 12401, 12402, 12403, 12420, 12423,
  12424,12426, and 12435 of, to add Sections 12403.1,12403.2,
  and 13514 to, to add Article 5 (commencing with Section
  12450) to Chapter 4 of Title 2 of Part 4 of, and to repeal
  Section 12400 of, the Penal Code, relating to tear gas
  weapons.
            [Approved by Governor August SO, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2384               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ Q i . J231

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12400 of the Penal Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 12401 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12401. " T e a r g a s " as used in this chapter shall apply to
and include all liquid, gaseous, or solid substances intended
to produce temporary physical discomfort or permanent in-
jury through being vaporized or otherwise dispersed in the
air, but does not apply to, and shall not include, any substance
registered as an economic poison as provided in Chapter 2
 (commencing with Section 12751) of Division 7 of the Agri-
cultural Code provided that such substance is not intended to
be used to produce discomfort or injury to human beings.
   SEC. 3. Section 12402 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12402. The term " t e a r gas weapon" as used in this chapter
shall apply to and include:
   (a) Any shell, cartridge, or bomb capable of being dis-
charged or exploded, when the discharge or explosion will
cause or permit the release or emission of tear gases.
   (b) Any revolvers, pistols, fountain pen guns, billies, or other
form of device, portable or fixed, intended for the projection
or release of tear gas except those regularly manufactured and
sold for use with firearm ammunition.
   SEC. 4. Section 12403 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12403. After January 1, 1969, nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit any person who is a sheriff; undersheriff; deputy
sheriff; policeman; reserve or auxiliary deputy sheriff or po-
liceman; marshal; deputy marshal; constable; deputy con-
stable ; member of the California Highway Patrol; member of
the California State Police Division; Chief, Assistant Chief, or
special agent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and In-
vestigation; Chief, Assistant Chief, or narcotics agent of the
Bureau of Narcotics Enforcement; investigator designated by
the Attorney General; deputy of the Department of Fish and
Game; hospital administrator or police officer of the Depart-
ment of Mental Hygiene; warden, superintendent, supervisor,
or guard of the Department of Corrections; enforcement offi-
cers of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control de-
scribed in subdivision (c) of Section 830.3; or officer or em-
ployee of an institution for delinquents of the Youth Authority,
from purchasing, possessing, or transporting any tear gas
weapon for official use in the discharge of their duties, if such
weapon has been certified as acceptable under Article 5 (com-
mencing with Section 12450) of this chapter and if such person
has satisfactorily completed a course of instruction approved
by the Commission on Peace Officers Standards and Training
in the use of tear gas.
                    1969
Ch. 1231]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2385

    SEC. 4.5. Section 12403 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
    12403. After January 1, 1969, nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit any person who is a sheriff; undersheriff; deputy sher-
iff; policeman; reserve or auxiliary deputy sheriff or police-
man; marshal; deputy marshal; constable; deputy constable;
member of the California Highway Patrol; member of the Cali-
fornia State Police Division; Chief, Assistant Chief, or special
agent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investiga-
tion; Chief, Assistant Chief, or narcotics agent of the Bureau
of Narcotics Enforcement; investigator designated by the At-
torney General; deputy of the Department of Fish and Game;
hospital administrator or police officer of the Department of
Mental Hygiene; warden, superintendent, supervisor, or guard
of the Department of Corrections; enforcement officers of the
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control described in subdi-
vision (c) of Section 830.3; any superintendent, assistant su-
perintendent, supervisor, or employee having custody of wards,
of each institution of the Department of the Youth Authority;
or any transportation officer of the Department of the Youth
Authority, from purchasing, possessing, or transporting any
tear gas weapon for official use in the discharge of their duties,
if such weapon has been certified as acceptable under Article 5
 (commencing with Section 12450) of this chapter and if such
person has satisfactorily completed a course of instruction ap-
proved by the Commission on Peace Officers Standards and
Training in the use of tear gas.
    SEC. 5. Section 12403.1 is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
    12403.1. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any mem-
ber of the military and naval forces of this state or of the
United States from purchasing, possessing, or transporting
 any tear gas weapon for official use in the discharge of his
duties.
    SEC. 6. Section 12403.2 is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
    12403.2. Until January 1, 1971, nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit any person who is a sheriff; undersheriff; deputy
sheriff; policeman; member of the California Highway Patrol;
warden, superintendent, supervisor, or guard of the Depart-
ment of Corrections; or officer or employee of an institution
for delinquents of the Youth Authority, from purchasing,
possessing, or transporting any tear gas weapon for official
use in the discharge of his duties, if such person was author-
ized by this chapter to engage in such activities prior to the
effective date of this section.
    SEC. 6.5. Section 12403.2 is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
    12403.2. Until January 1, 1971, nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit any person who is a sheriff; undersheriff; dep-
uty sheriff; policeman; member of the California Highway
2386              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              rQ^ J231

Patrol; warden, superintendent, supervisor, or guard of the
Department of Corrections; any superintendent, assistant
superintendent, supervisor, or employee having custody of
wards, of each institution of the Department of the Youth
Authority; or any transportation officer of the Department
of the Youth Authority, from purchasing, possessing, or trans-
porting any tear gas weapon for official use in the discharge
of his duties, if such person was authorized by this chapter to
engage in such activities prior to the effective date of this
section.
   SEC. 7. Section 12420 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12420. Any person, firm, or corporation who within this
state knowingly sells or offers for sale, possesses, or trans-
ports any tear gas weapon, except as permitted under the pro-
visions of this chapter, is guilty of a public offense and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by imprisonment in the
state prison not to exceed two years or by a fine not to exceed
two thousand dollars ($2,000), or by both.
   SEC. 8. Section 12423 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12423. The Chief of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation may issue a permit for the possession and
transportation of tear gas weapons upon proof that good cause
exists for the issuance thereof to the applicant for such permit.
The permit may also allow the applicant to install, maintain,
and operate a protective system involving the use of tear gas
weapons in any place which is accurately and completely de-
scribed in the application for the permit.
   SEC. 9. Section 12424 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12424. Applications for permits shall be filed in writing,
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by a member or
officer qualified to sign if the applicant is a firm or corpora-
tion, and shall state the name, business in which engaged,
business address, a full description of the place or vehicle in
which the tear gas weapons are to be transported, kept, in-
stalled, or maintained.
   If the tear gas weapons are to be used in connection with, or
to constitute, a protective system, the application shall also
contain the name of the person who is to install the protective
system.
   Applications and permits shall be uniform throughout the
state upon forms prescribed by the Bureau of Criminal Iden-
tification and Investigation.
   SEC. 10. Section 12426 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12426. Permits issued in accordance with this article may
be revoked by the issuing authority at any time when it ap-
 pears that the need for the possession or transportation of the
 tear gas weapons or protective system involving the use
                    1969
Ch. 12311                  REGULAR SESSION                 2387

thereof, has ceased, or that the holder of the permit has en-
gaged in an unlawful business or occupation or has wrongfully
made use of the tear gas weapons or the permit issued.
   SEC. 11. Section 12435 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   12435. The Chief of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation may grant licenses in a form to be pre-
scribed by him effective for not more than one year from the
date of issuance, to permit the sale at retail at the place
specified in the license of tear gas weapons, and to permit the
installation and maintenance of protective systems involving
the use of tear gas weapons subject to all of the following con-
ditions upon breach of any of which the license shall be subject
to forfeiture:
   (a) The business shall be carried on only in the building
designated in the license.
   (b) The license or certified copy thereof shall be displayed
on the premises in a place where it may easily be read.
   (c) No tear gas weapon shall be delivered to any person
not authorized to possess or transport the same under the pro-
visions of this chapter. No protective system involving the use
of tear gas weapons shall be installed, nor shall supplies be
sold for the maintenance of such system, unless the licensee has
personal knowledge of the existence of a valid permit for the
operation and maintenance of the system.
   (d) A complete record shall be kept of sales made under
the authority of the license, showing the name and address
of the purchaser, the quantity and description of the articles
purchased, together with the serial number, the number and
date of issue of the purchaser's permit, and the signature of
the purchaser or purchasing agent. No sale shall be made un-
less the permit authorizing possession and transportation of
tear gas weapons is displayed to the seller and the information
required by this section is copied therefrom. This record shall
be open to the inspection of any peace officer or other person
designated by the Chief of the Bureau of Criminal Identifica-
tion and Investigation.
   SEC. 12. Article 5 (commencing with Section 12450) is
 added to Chapter 4 of Title 2 of Part 4 of the Penal Code,
to read:
            Article 5. Certification of Acceptability
   12450. No tear gas weapon shall be possessed, sold or trans-
ported in this state after January 1, 1971, unless, pursuant
to the provisions of this article, the Chief of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation has certified that
particular type and brand of weapon to be acceptable.
   12451. The term ' ' acceptable'' as used in this article when
referring to a tear gas weapon, means that such weapon is
reasonably free from any undue hazard when used by, or
upon a human being taking into consideration such factors
as the following:
2388                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   rQfa J 2 3 1

   (a) The reasonable safety, availability, and effectiveness of
other devices, including other tear gas weapons, capable of
being used under the same circumstances and for the same
purposes.
   (b) The amount of hazard inherent in the use of the weapon
when weighed against the amount of hazard inherent in the
kinds of conduct the weapon is designed to control.
    (c) The manner in which the weapon can be expected to
be used as well as the manner in which the manufacturer
or seller thereof has recommended that it be used.
   12452. Any person engaged in the manufacture, sale, or
transportation of tear gas weapons may apply to the Bureau
of Criminal Identification and Investigation, hereinafter re-
ferred to as the " b u r e a u " in this article, for certification that
a particular type and brand of tear gas weapon manufactured,
sold, or transported by that person is acceptable.
   12453. Any application submitted pursuant to Section
 12452 shall contain all of the following:
    (a) Full reports of any investigation conducted by any
public or private agency for the purpose of determining
whether such weapon is acceptable.
    (b) A full statement of the composition of each component
of such weapon.
   (c) A full statement of the methods used in, and the facili-
ties and controls used for, the manufacture, processing and
packing of such weapon.
    (d) Such samples of such weapon and its components as
the bureau may require.
   (e) Specimens of the labeling, instructions, and advertise-
ments used or proposed to be used for such weapon.
   12454. Within 180 days after the filing of an application
as provided for in Section 12452, or such additional period
as may be agreed upon by the bureau and the applicant,
the bureau shall either:
   (a) Issue an order certifying such weapon as acceptable.
   (b) Give the applicant notice for an opportunity for a
hearing before the bureau on the question whether such
weapon is acceptable. If the applicant elects to accept the
opportunity for hearing by written request within 30 days
after such notice, such hearing shall commence not more
than 60 days after receiving such request unless the bureau
and the applicant otherwise agree. Such hearing shall be
heard on an expedited basis and the bureau shall issue an
order granting or denying certification within 90 days after
the date fixed by the bureau for filing final briefs.
   12455. The bureau shall issue an order refusing to certify
a tear gas weapon as acceptable if after due notice to the
applicant the bureau finds any of the following:
   (a) That the weapon is not acceptable.
   (b) That the application contains any misrepresentation
of a material fact.
                    1969
Ch. 1231]                  REGULAR SESSION                2389

    (c) That the application is materially incomplete.
   (d) That the State Department of Public Health has rec-
ommended that the weapon is not acceptable.
   12456. The bureau shall issue an order revoking certifica-
tion if, after due notice to the applicant, the bureau finds
any of the following:
   (a) That experience or additional testing show that the
weapon is not acceptable.
   (b) That the application contains any misrepresentation
of a material fact.
   12457. The bureau may adopt and promulgate regula-
tions for the fair and efficient enforcement of this article.
   12458. Prior to certification, the chief of the bureau shall
request from the State Department of Public Health a report
on each type and brand of tear gas weapon submitted to it
by the bureau. The department shall prepare and transmit
such report to the bureau, and shall also submit supplemental
reports whenever the facts warrant such action. Such reports
shall be for the purpose of aiding the chief of the bureau in
determining whether the particular type and brand of tear
gas weapon is acceptable, shall contain such facts as will en-
able him to make such a determination, shall state conclusions
concerning the health hazards, if any, of the weapon tested
and a recommendation as to the acceptability of the weapon,
and shall be based on any one or more of the following:
   (a) Investigations conducted by the department's own fa-
cilities.
   (b) Investigations conducted by independent laboratories.
   (c) Any other investigations approved by the department.
   The applicant shall reimburse the State Department of Pub-
lic Health for any actual expenses incurred by the department
in preparing such reports.
   SEC. 13. Section 13514 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   13514. The commission shall prepare a course of instruc-
tion for the training of peace officers in the use of tear
gas. Such course of instruction may be given, upon ap-
proval by the commission, by any agency or institution en-
gaged in the training or instruction of peace officers.
   SEC. 14. This act may be cited as the Tear Gas Act of
1969.
   SEC. 15. Section 4.5 of this act shall become operative
only if Senate Bill No. 1040 is enacted at the 1969 Regular
Session of the Legislature, and, in such case, at the same time
as Senate Bill No. 1040 takes effect; at which time, Section
12403 of the Penal Code, as amended by Section 4 of this act,
is repealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 6.5 of this act shall become operative only
if Senate Bill No. 1040 is enacted at the 1969 Eegular Session
of the Legislature, and, in such case, at the same time as Sen-
ate Bill No. 1040 takes effect; at which time, Section 12403.2
of the Penal Code, as added by Section 6 of this act, is re-
pealed.
 2390                 STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                    [Q}^ 1232

                            CHAPTER 1232
        An act relating to the San Francisco Bay Delta          Study.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. The State Water Resources Control Board
 shall have authority to continue activities or make further
 studies of the type necessary to develop and expand the plan
for a 'water quality control system as contained in the report
 submitted to the Legislature by the board pursuant to Chapter
1351, Statutes of 1965.
   SEC. 2. The board shall recommend to the Legislature
alternate methods for implementing the water quality control
system not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1971 legis-
lative session.
   SEC. 3. The Legislature finds that it does not appear that
a governmental entity will be created by the 1969 Legislature
to implement the report submitted to the Legislature pursuant
to Chapter 1351, Statutes of 1965. Therefore, in order to con-
tinue this planning effort on an interim basis until such time
as a single or multipurpose entity or entities be established to
plan, finance, construct and operate a comprehensive water
pollution control plan for the study area, it is necessary for
the Legislature to authorize continuation of activities and
studies by the State Water Resources Control Board.


                           CHAPTER 1233
An act to amend Sections 9902, 9903.5, 9902.6, 9927, 9950,
  9977, 9984, 9985, and 9997 of and to add Section 9902.7 to,
  the Business and Professions Code, relating to employment
  agencies.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 9902 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
    9902. As used in this chapter, "employment agency" or
" a g e n c y " means any of the following:
    (a) The business of conducting, in any capacity, an intelli-
gence office, employment agency, registry other than a nurses'
registry as defined in Section 1710.4 of the Labor Code, or any
agency, business or office which procures, offers, promises or
attempts to procure employment or engagements for others or
employees for employers, or for the registration of persons
                     1969
Ch. 1233]                   REGULAR SESSION                   2391

 seeking to procure or retain employment or engagement, or for
 giving information as to where and from whom such help, em-
 ployment or engagement may be procured, or for providing
 employment or engagements where a fee or other valuable con-
 sideration is exacted, or attempted to be collected, directly or
 indirectly, for such services, regardless of where such business
 is conducted.
     (b) Any person, service, bureau, organization, or club,
 which by advertisement or otherwise offers, as one of its main
 objects or purposes, to procure employment for any person who
 will pay for its services, or that collects dues, tuition, or mem-
 bership or registration fees of any sort, where the main object
 of the person paying the same is to secure employment.
     (c) Any person who acts as a labor contractor.
     (1) A labor contractor is any person, who, for a fee or other
 compensation, employs an individual to render personal serv-
 ices to, for or under the direction of a third person.
    (2) " Bona fide employees " or " employees,'' when used with
 reference to the employees of a labor contractor, refers to the
 employees rendering services to the labor contractor and not to
the individuals employed by the labor contractor to render
personal services to, for or under the direction of a third
person.
    (3) A central hiring establishment, intelligence office, reg-
istry other than a nurses' registry, agency or place maintained
without cost to applicants for employment by groups of em-
ployers or groups of employers and employees, or a person
licensed under Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of
Division 3 of this code, does not constitute a labor contractor
within the meaning of this chapter.
    (4) A person employing individuals to render part-time or
temporary personal services to, for or under the direction of a
third person is not a labor contractor within the meaning of
this chapter if the person employing the individuals, in addi-
tion to wages or salaries, pays federal social security taxes,
state and federal unemployment insurance, carries workmen's
compensation insurance as required by state law, and sustains
responsibility for the acts of his employees while rendering
services to, for or under the direction of a third person, and
has no applicant paid liquidated damage clause. The person
employing individuals to render part-time or temporary per-
sonal services shall not send the employees to any place where
a strike, lockout or labor dispute exists.
    SEC. 2. Section 9902.5 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
    9902.5. As used in this chapter, "employment agency" or
" a g e n c y " does not include a nursing school, business school,
or vocational school, except that if such a school charges a fee
for placement the school shall be an employment agency within
the meaning of this chapter.
2392              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQ^ J233

   SEC. 3. Section 9902.6 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   9902.6. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
any person engaged in the business of management consulting
and who in the course of said business acts solely on behalf of,
and is compensated solely by, an employer to identify, ap-
praise or recommend an individual or individuals for con-
sideration for an executive or professional position, provided
that:
   (a) The compensation for each such position is at the rate of
not less than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) per year.
   (b) In no instance is the individual who is identified, ap-
praised, or recommended for consideration for such position
charged a fee directly or indirectly in connection with such
identification, appraisal, or recommendation, or for registration
or for preparation of any resume, or on account of any other
personal service performed by the person engaged in the busi-
ness of management consulting and who in the course of said
business is retained by the employer to identify, appraise, or
recommend individuals for executive or professional positions.
   (c) In no instance does the person engaged in management
consulting advertise positions for which the compensation is
at the rate of less than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) per
year, or that any of the fees mentioned in subdivision (b) are
charged by such person.
   SEC. 3.5. Section 9902.7 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   9902.7. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
any person licensed as a certified public accountant pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 5000) of Division 3
so long as he is engaged in the practice of public accounting.
   SEC. 4. Section 9927 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   9927. Four members of the board shall be representatives
of the employment agency industry each of whom shall be
active in an employment agency and be a proprietor, partner,
or corporate officer thereof, or a qualified examinee, and shall
have held a valid, current California employment agency li-
cense for five consecutive years immediately preceding the
appointment, and three shall be public members.
   SEC. 5. Section 9950 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   9950. The license shail protect only the person or persons
to whom it is issued and only those places designated in the
license. No license shall be issued, transferred or assigned to
any person unless written consent is obtained from the bureau.
   In the case of a corporation or partnership, a license shall be
valid only as long as the person or persons qualifying for the
license are active and bona fide shareholders in the corporation,
or partners in the case of a partnership. If the person or per-
sons qualifying for the license cease for any reason whatsoever
                     1969
Ch. 1233]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2393

 to be connected with the corporation or partnership, such cor-
 poration or partnership shall have 90 days to qualify a person
 for such license, and if it fails to do so such license shall after
 notice and hearing be suspended until such time as a person
 qualifies for such license. A corporation or partnership whose
 license is suspended pursuant to this section shall not carry on
 the business of an employment agency during the period of
 such suspension.
    SEC. 6. Section 9977 of the Business and Professions
 Code is amended to read:
    9977. If the applicant making a deposit fails to obtain em-
 ployment, the employment agency shall, upon demand therefor,
 repay the amount of the deposit to the applicant. Unless the
 deposit is returned within 48 hours after demand, the employ-
 ment agency shall pay to the applicant an additional sum
 equal to the amount of the deposit. A notice to this effect shall
 be inserted in all contracts between the agency and the appli-
 cant, and in all receipts given to the applicant for cash pay-
 ment in advance of employment, and in the schedule of fees
 posted in the office of the agency, except in the fee schedules
 of those agencies which are exclusively employer retained and
 which charge no fees to applicants.
    SEC. 7. Section 9984 of the Business and Professions
 Code is amended to read:
    9984. (a) Every employment agency shall give to every
 applicant for employment from whom a fee is to be received
 a contract or receipt, in which is stated all of the following:
    (1) The name, address and telephone number of the em-
-ployment-agemy;                                           —
    (2) The name and address of the person giving the order
for help, the date and consecutive number of the receipt of
 such order by the agency, and its manner of transmission.
    (3) The date and consecutive number of issuing the con-
tract.
    (4) The name of the applicant, the name and address of
the person to whom the applicant is sent for employment, and
the address where the applicant is to report for employment.
    (5) The amount of fee to be charged and to be collected
from the applicant, the amount of fee, paid or advanced by the
 prospective employer and by whom paid or advanced.
    (6) The kind of work or employment.
    (7) The daily hours of work; the wages or salary including
any consideration of privilege.
    (8) If any labor trouble exists at the placement of employ-
ment, that fact shall be stated in the contract.
    (9) Any other term, condition, or understanding agreed
 upon between the agency and the applicant.
    (b) There shall be printed on the face of the contract in
prominent type the following: ' ' This agency is licensed by the
Bureau of Employment Agencies of the State of California."
2394              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [Qfr   J233

At the bottom of the contract there shall appear a notice to
the effect that the contract is the property of the applicant
and shall not he taken from him.
   (c) The employment agency shall in such contract under-
take to repay the applicant the fee in the event of failure to
procure employment.
   (d) Every such contract or receipt shall be made and num-
bered consecutively in original and duplicate, both to be signed
by the applicant and the person acting for the employment
agency. The original shall be given to the applicant and the
duplicate shall be kept on file at the agency.
   SEC. 8. Section 9985 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   9985. (a) All contracts or agreements, of types other than
provided in Section 9984, between the employment agency and
applicants for employment shall be approved by the bureau.
Those in existence on November 8, 1967, shall continue in effect
until changed or superseded by the bureau.
   (b) The bureau may approve any contract or agreement be-
tween an employment agency and an employer of domestic
help. Those contracts in existence at the time this subdivision
becomes effective shall continue in effect until changed or su-
perseded by the bureau.
   SEC. 9. Section 9997 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   9997. The bureau, subject to the approval of the director,
shall charge the following fees:
   (a) A filing fee which shall be set by the bureau at not more
than fifty dollars ($50) for each new application for license.
   (b) A filing fee which shall be set by the bureau at not more
than one hundred dollars ($100) for each new application for
a branch office license.
   (c) A filing fee which shall be set by the bureau at not more
than fifty dollars ($50) for application for examination or re-
examination.
   (d) A filing fee which shall be set by the bureau at not more
than fifty dollars ($50) for application to transfer or assign a
license.
   (e) An annual license fee which shall be set by the bureau
at not more than two hundred dollars ($200) for an employ-
ment agency license, except that the annual license fee for an
employment agency engaged exclusively in the business of pro-
curing babysitting employment for others shall be set by the
bureau at not more than seventy-five dollars ($75).
   (f) An annual license fee which shall be set by the bureau
at not more than one hundred dollars ($100) for license of
each branch office, except that the annual license fee for each
branch office license for an employment agency engaged exclu-
sively in the business of procuring babysitting employment for
others shall be set by the bureau at not more than thirty-eight
dollars ($38).
                        1969
Ch. 1234]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2395

   (g) An interim employment agency license fee which shall
be set by the bureau at not more than one hundred dollars
 ($100).
   (h) A reinstatement fee of two hundred dollars ($200), in
addition to the current renewal fee, to reinstate a license re-
voked or suspended.
   No fees shall be prorated for the unexpired portion of the
license year.
   The fees shall be set by the bureau within the limits pre-
scribed by this section in such amounts as it determines will be
reasonably necessary to provide only sufficient revenue for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.


                           CHAPTER 1234
An act to amend Section 16750 of the Business and Professions
  Code, relating to restraint of trade, and declaring the ur-
  gency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 16750 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   16750. (a) Any person who is injured in his business or
property by reason of anything forbidden or declared un-
lawful by this chapter, may sue therefor in any court having
jurisdiction in the county where the defendant resides or is
found, or any agent resides or is found, or where service may
be obtained, without respect to the amount in controversy,
and to recover three times the damages sustained by him, and
shall be awarded a reasonable attorneys' fee together with the
costs of the suit.
   The amendments to this section adopted at the 1959 Regu-
lar Session of the Legislature do not apply to any action com-
menced prior to September 18,1959.
   (b) The state and any of its political subdivisions and
public agencies shall be deemed a person within the meaning
of this section.
   (c) The Attorney General may bring an action on behalf
of the state or of any of its political subdivisions or public
agencies to recover the damages provided for by this section,
or by any comparable provision of federal law, provided that
the Attorney General shall notify in writing any political sub-
division or public agency of his intention to bring any such
action on its behalf, and at any time within 30 days thereafter,
such political subdivision or public agency may, by formal
resolution of its governing body or as otherwise specifically
2396               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               |"Q n 1234

  provided by applicable law, withdraw the authority of the
  Attorney General to bring the intended action. In any action
  brought pursuant to this section on behalf of any political
  subdivision or public agency of the state, the state shall re-
  tain for deposit in the General F u n d of the State Treasury,
  out of the proceeds, if any, resulting from such action, an
  amount equal to the expense incurred by the Attorney General
 in the investigation and prosecution of such action.
     (d) In any action brought by the Attorney General pur-
 suant to either state or federal antitrust laws for the recovery
 of damages by the state or any of its political subdivisions
  or public agencies, in addition to his other powers and au-
 thority, the Attorney General may enter into contracts re-
 lating to the investigation and the prosecution of such action
 with any other party plaintiff who has brought a similar
 action for the recovery of damages and with whom the At-
 torney General finds it advantageous to act jointly, or to
 share common expenses or to cooperate in any manner rela-
 tive to such action. In any such action, notwithstanding the
 provisions of Section 12520 of the Government Code, the
 Attorney General may undertake, among other things, either
 to render legal services as special counsel to, or to obtain the
 legal services of special counsel from any department or
 agency of the United States, of this state or any other state or
 any department or agency thereof, any county, city, public cor-
 poration or public district of this state or of any other state,
 that has brought or intends to bring a similar action for the re-
 covery of damages, or their duly authorized legal representa-
 tives in such action. The Attorney General may also enter into
 any agreement authorized by Chapter 5 (commencing with Sec-
 tion 6500) Division 7, Title 1 of the Government Code with
 any governmental entity enumerated in this subdivision, not-
withstanding any provision to the contrary contained in Sec-
tion 6500 of the Government Code. Every contract or agree-
ment entered into pursuant to this subdivision (d) shall be
approved by the Department of General Services.
    SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution, and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
    There are presently pending several major actions for the re-
covery of damages suffered by the state, its political subdivi-
sions and public agencies from violations of the antitrust
laws. Similar actions arising from the same circumstances have
also been brought by numerous other states and their local
agencies. Procedural schedules for the conduct of these actions
require that these amendments to Section 16750 of the Business
and Professions Code become immediately effective if the state
and its agencies of local government are to realize the substan-
tial economies and benefits that they provide.
                       1969
Ch. 1235]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2397

                           CHAPTER 1235
An act to authorize a grant pursuant to the Davis-Grunsky
  Act to the County of Kern in connection with the Buena
  Vista Aquatic Recreation Area Project.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. The Department of Water Eesources is hereby
authorized to make a grant to the County of Kern, pursuant to
the Davis-Grunsky Act (Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
12880), Part 6, Division 6, Water Code), in such amount as
may be determined by the department upon approval of an
application therefor pursuant to said act, but not exceeding
the amount of five million six hundred twenty thousand dollars
 ($5,620,000), for enhancement of fish and wildlife and recrea-
tion in connection with the construction of the Buena Vista
Aquatic Recreation Area Project.
   No further legislative approval shall be required with re-
spect to the grant authorized to be made to the county by this
act, but such grant shall not be made to the county until the
county demonstrates the nature and extent of the statewide
interest in the project, the public necessity for the project,
the urgency of the need, that the project is in substantial con-
formance with the California Water Plan, and the engineering
feasibility, economic justification, and financial feasibility of
the project.
   SEC. 2. The provision of Section 12884 of the Water Code
that the legislative approval of a grant shall be made by an
act enacted after the receipt by the Legislature of copies of
the project report filed pursuant to Section 12882.4 of the
Water Code shall not be applicable to the grant authorized
pursuant to this act, but such grant shall not be made to the
county until copies of a favorable project report are filed with
the Legislature pursuant to Section 12882.4 of the Water Code.
The approval of this grant prior to the receipt by the Legis-
lature of copies of the project report pursuant to Section
12882.4 of the Water Code shall in no way be deemed to set
a precedent for the approval of any other grant prior to the
receipt of such report as required pursuant to Section 12884
of the Water Code.
   SEC. 3. The maximum amount authorized under Section 1
of this act shall be in addition to any grant made to the county
pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 12884.2 of the Water
Code for initial water supply and sanitary facilities.
2398               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     TQ^   J236

                         CHAPTER 1236
An act to create the Tuolumne County Water Agency, pre-
  scribing its powers and duties, providing for its organiza-
  tion, operation, and management, and authorizing the acqui-
  sition of property and works to carry out the purposes of
  the agency, authorizing the incurrence of indebtedness, pro-
  viding for issuance of bonds, providing for the levy and
  collection of taxes for the payment of such indebtedness,
  providing for the issuing of bonds payable solely from rev-
  enues of the agency, providing for the levy and collection
  of taxes for the payment of general agency expenses and for
  cooperation and contracts with any entity.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. This act may be designated and referred to as
 the Tuolumne County "Water Agency Act, and any reference
 thereto by such designation shall be sufficient for all purposes.
    SEC. 2. A district is hereby created to be called the Tu-
 olumne County Water Agency. The agency shall consist of all
 the territory lying within the exterior boundaries of the
 County of Tuolumne.
   SEC. 2.5. Before the agency may begin to transact busi-
 ness or exercise its powers, the Board of Supervisors of the
 County of Tuolumne shall adopt a resolution declaring that
there is need for the agency to function. Before adopting such
resolution the board of supervisors shall hold two public hear-
 ings within the County of Tuolumne on the subject of such
resolution. Notice of the time and place of the hearings shall
be published pursuant to Section 6066 of the Government Code
in a newspaper of general circulation published within the
county. From and after the date of the adoption of the resolu-
tion the agency shall begin to function and may exercise its
powers.
   SEC. 3. As used in this act, the following words shall have
the following respective meanings unless the context indicates
otherwise:
   (a) " Agency'' is the Tuolumne County Water Agency.
   (b) " C o u n t y " is the County of Tuolumne of the State of
California.
   (c) "United States" is the United States of America in-
cluding any one or more of the bureaus, commissions, divi-
sions, departments, boards, agencies, and officers of the United
States of America.
   (d) " S t a t e " means the State of California including any
one or more of the bureaus, commissions, divisions, depart-
ments, boards, agencies, and officers of the State of California.
   (e) " W o r k " or " w o r k s " includes dams and damsites,
reservoirs and reservoir sites, and all conduits and other facil-
                       1969
Ch. 1236]                     REGULAR SESSION                        2399

ities useful in the control, conservation, diversion and trans-
mission of water, power generation and transmission facilities,
and all land, property, franchises, easements, rights-of-way
and privileges necessary or useful to operate or maintain
any of the foregoing.
    (f) " D i s t r i c t " means any of the following lying within
or partially within the agency; irrigation districts, county
water districts, water conservation districts, water districts,
municipalities, town, flood control districts, and any other dis-
tricts or political subdivisions of the state empowered by law
to appropriate water and deliver water to water users.
   (g) "Member u n i t " means any district which enters into
a contract with the agency on a particular project for:
   (i) The repayment in whole or in part to the agency or any
other person, corporation, public district, State of California
or any political subdivision thereof, or the United States, of
any or all the construction costs of any works constructed by
or on behalf of the agency for such district, or for
    (ii) The underwriting in whole or in part of any or all of
such construction costs, or for
    (iii) The repayment in whole or in part to the agency or
any other person, corporation, public district, State of Cali-
fornia or any political subdivision thereof, or the United
States of any or all of the cost of furnishing water or a water
supply to the agency or such district or the underwriting in
whole or in part of such cost, or for
    (iv) The payment in whole or in part for water to be fur-
nished or sold to such district by the agency or the United
States.
   (h) " E l e c t o r " or "qualified elector" or " v o t e r " or "quali-
fied voter" means any elector of the county qualified under
the laws of the State of California to vote in the county at
general elections.
    (i) " M a y " is permissive and " s h a l l " is mandatory.
    (j) " B o a r d " means the board of directors of the agency.
    (k) " P r o j e c t " means any undertaking by the agency which
involves any expenditure of funds by any district except the
agency.
   SEC. 4. The Tuolumne County Water Agency is hereby de-
clared to be and is a body politic and corporate, and as such
shall have, among others, the powers enumerated in this act
and such other powers as the law may provide. The powers
of the agency shall, except as otherwise provided, be exercised
by the board of directors thereof.
   SEC. 5. The agency shall have perpetual succession.
   SEC. 6. The agency shall have the power to adopt a seal
and alter it at its pleasure.
   SEC. 7. The agency shall have the power to sue and be
sued, except as otherwise provided herein or by law, in all
actions and proceedings in all courts, commissions, board and
tribunals of competent jurisdiction.
    76—1954
2400               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfa J236

    SEC. 8. The agency shall have the power of eminent do-
main to acquire within the agency by condemnation in the
manner and to the extent prescribed in Article I, Section 14
 of the Constitution of the State of California and Title 7
 (commencing with Section 1237) of Part 3 of the Code of
 Civil Procedure all property or interest therein necessary for
 carrying out the powers and purposes of the agency, except
that the agency shall not have the power to acquire by con-
demnation publicly owned property held or used for the
development, storage or distribution of water for public use;
 and it is hereby declared that the use of the property which
may be condemned, taken or appropriated under the provi-
 sions of this act, is a public use, subject to regulation and
 control of the State of California in the manner prescribed
by law. In lieu of compensation and damages for the taking
or damaging of any public utility facility which must be
replaced by the public utility to provide service to the pub-
lic equivalent to that provided by the facility taken or dam-
aged, the agency shall pay to the public utility owning such
facility its actual cost incurred to replace in kind the facility
so taken or damaged, less proper deductions for depreciation,
together with its actual cost incurred to rearrange or rehabili-
tate the facilities of such public utility not taken or damaged
but required to be rearranged or rehabilitated by reason of
such taking or damaging.
    The power of eminent domain vested in the agency shall
include the power to condemn in the name of the agency either
the fee simple or any lesser estate or interest in any property
which the board by resolution shall determine is necessary for
carrying out the purposes of the agency. Such resolution shall
be prima facie evidence that the taking of such private prop-
erty, to the extent stated in said resolution, is necessary for
carrying out the purposes of the agency.
    SEC. 9. The agency shall have the power to take absolutely
or on condition, by grant, purchase, gift, devise, or lease, with
or without the privilege of purchasing, or otherwise, real and
personal property of any kind, or any interest in real or per-
sonal property, within or without the agency, necessary to the
full exercise of its powers, and to hold, use, enjoy, and to lease
or dispose of the same subject to the limitations set forth in
Section 39.
   SEC. 10. The agency shall have the power to make con-
tracts, employ labor and to do all acts necessary for the full
exercise of its purposes and powers. The board may cause
construction or other work to be performed or carried out by
contracts or by the agency under its own superintendence.
   SEC. 11. The agency shall have the power as limited in
this act to do any and every lawful act necessary in order that
sufficient water may be available for any present or future
beneficial use or uses of the lands or inhabitants within the
agency, including, but not limited to, irrigation, domestic, fire
                    1969
Ch. 1236]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2401

protection, municipal, commercial, industrial, recreational,
and all other beneficial uses and purposes.
    SEC. 12. The agency shall have the power to construct, op-
erate and maintain works to develop hydroelectric energy as
a means of assisting in financing the construction, operation
and maintenance of its projects for the control, conservation,
diversion and transmission of water and to enter into con-
tracts for the sale of such energy for a term not to exceed 50
years. Such energy may be marketed only at wholesale rates
to any public agency or private entity engaged in the sale or
use of electric energy, or the federal or state government.
    SEC. 13. The agency shall have the power to control the
flood and storm waters of the agency and the flood and storm
waters of streams that have their sources outside of the agency,
which streams and floodwaters flow into the agency, and to
conserve such waters for beneficial and useful purposes of said
agency by spreading, storing, retaining and causing to per-
colate into the soil within or without said agency, or to save
or conserve in any manner all or any of such waters and pro-
tect from damage from such flood or storm waters the water-
courses, watersheds, public highways, life and property in said
agency, and the watercourses outside of the agency of streams
flowing into the agency.
    SEC. 14. The agency shall have the power to store water in
surface or underground reservoirs within or outside of the
agency for the common benefit of the agency; to conserve and
reclaim water for present and future use within the agency;
to appropriate and acquire water and water rights, and im-
port water into the agency and to conserve and utilize, within
or outside of the agency, water for any purpose useful to the
agency; to commence, maintain, intervene in, defend or com-
promise, in the name of the agency in behalf of the landown-
ers therein, or otherwise, and to assume the costs and expenses
of any action or proceeding involving or affecting the owner-
ship or use of waters or water rights, within or without the
agency, used or useful for any purpose of the agency or of
common benefit to any land situated therein, or involving the
wasteful use of water therein; to commence, maintain, inter-
vene in, defend and compromise and to assume the cost and
expenses of any and all actions and proceedings now or here-
after begun; to prevent interference with or diminution of,
 or to declare rights in the natural flow of any stream or sur-
face or subterranean supply of waters used or useful for any
purpose of the agency or of common benefit to the lands
 within the agency or to its inhabitants; to prevent unlawful
 exportation of water from said agency; to prevent contamina-
 tion, pollution or otherwise rendering unfit for beneficial use
 the surface or subsurface water used in said agency, and to
 commence, maintain and defend actions and proceedings to
 prevent any such interference with such waters as may en-
2402              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Oh. 1236

danger or damage the inhabitants, lands, or use of water in,
or flowing into, the agency; except that the agency shall have
no power to intervene or take part in, or to pay the costs or
expenses of, actions or controversies between the owners of
lands or water rights which do not affect the interests of the
agency.
   SEC. 15. The agency shall have the power within or out-
side the agency to construct, purchase, lease, or otherwise ac-
quire works and to purchase, lease, appropriate or otherwise
acquire water and water rights, useful or necessary to make
use of water for any purposes authorized by this act.
   SEC. 16. The agency shall have the power to operate, re-
pair, improve, maintain, renew, replace and extend all works
and property of the agency.
   SEC. 17. The agency shall have the power to carry on tech-
nical and other necessary investigations, make measurements,
collect data, make analyses, studies, and inspections pertain-
ing to water supply, water rights, control of flood and storm
waters, and use of water both within and without said agency
relating to watercourses or streams flowing in or into said
agency. The agency may cooperate with any district in carry-
ing out the powers granted by this section.
   SEC. 18. The agency shall have the power to construct its
pipes, pipelines, flumes and tunnels and other conduits, includ-
ing facilities' for the transmission of electric energy to the
works of the agency, along, under or across any public road,
street, alley, avenue, highway or sidewalk, or across any stream
of water, watercourse, railway, canal, ditch, or flume which the
route of said pipes, pipelines, canals, flumes, tunnels, or other
conduits may intersect or cross, except that such works shall
be constructed in compliance with any applicable laws and
in such manner as to afford security for life and property
and the agency shall restore at its own expense any such
crossings and intersections to their former state as nearly
as may be, or to an extent which does not unnecessarily im-
pair their usefulness. Every company, municipality, or dis-
trict whose right-of-way shall be intersected or crossed by said
pipes, pipelines, canals, flumes, tunnels or other conduits shall
unite with the agency in forming said intersections and cross-
ings and grant the rights therefor.
   SEC. 19. There is hereby granted to the agency the right-
of-way for the location, construction, and maintenance of
works authorized under the provisions of this act in, over and
across public lands of the State of California, not otherwise
 disposed of or in use, but not in any case exceeding an area
which is necessary for the construction of such works and
adjuncts or for the protection thereof. "Whenever any selection
of a right-of-way for such works or adjuncts thereto is made
by the agency, the board shall transmit to the State Lands
 Commission, the Controller of the state and the recorder of
 the county in which the selected lands are situated, a plat of
                    1969
Ch. 1236]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2403

the lands selected, giving the extent thereof and the uses for
which the same is claimed or desired, verified by the board.
If the State Lands Commission approves the selection so made
it shall endorse its approval upon the plat and issue to the
agency a permit to use such right-of-way and lands.
   SEC. 20. (a) If by any judgment in condemnation or
agreement the agency is required to relocate any street, road,
highway, railroad, canal or other property subject or devoted
to public use, the board may acquire in the name of the
agency, by agreement or condemnation, all rights-of-way and
other property necessary or proper for compliance with such
agreement or judgment of condemnation and thereafter to
make such conveyance of the relocated street, road, highway,
railroad, canal, or other property as may be proper to comply
with the agreement or judgment. All agreements for the
exchange of property and all judgments requiring relocation
of other public uses, as specified in this section and in Sec-
tion 8 of this act, shall provide that in making the exchange
the property condemned and exchanged shall be limited to
public use by the party with whom such exchange is made.
   (b) In the event the agency and any common carrier rail-
road or other public utility fail to agree as to the character or
location of new improvements or works sought to be performed
by the agency, the character and location of such new im-
provements or works and any other controversy relating
thereto shall be submitted to and determined by the Public
Utilities Commission.
   (c) Proceedings under this section relating to the jurisdic-
tion of said commission may be instituted, maintained and
determined in the manner prescribed in Chapter 6 (commenc-
ing with Section 1201) of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Public
Utilities Code.
   SEC. 21. The agency may reimburse the county for any
funds expended by the county in investigations, elections, or
other acts incidental to the establishment of the agency.
   SEC. 22. Incidental to the construction and operation of
the works of the agency, the agency shall have the power to
contract for the sale of the right to use falling water for power
purposes with any public or private entity.
   SEC. 23. Any water or rights to the use of the works of
the agency for the conservation, control or transportation of
water may be sold, leased or otherwise transferred by the
agency to member units, and the agency may fix and collect
rates and charges for such purposes. The agency may transfer
such water or the use of agency works to other than member
units for use in or outside the agency upon a temporary or
short-term basis, upon a finding by the board that such water
or works exceed the needs of member units. The provisions of
this section shall not prevent the disposition of electric power
or power facilities to other than member units at wholesale.
Bach contract for or sale of surplus water or the use of such
2404              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qfr 1236

water facilities shall expressly state that the sale or disposition
is subject to the prior right to the use of such water or facil-
ities by or for member units.
    SEC. 24. The agency may enter into contracts with any
member unit or with any district which becomes a member
unit of the agency for any of the following purposes:
    (a) The lease, purchase, or other acquisition by the agency
of any of the works of such member unit or district.
    (b) The construction of works by the agency for the con-
servation, regulation or transmission of water for the benefit
of such member unit or district; or for the furnishing or sale
by the agency or the State of California or the United States
to such member unit or by such member unit to the agency
of water or a water supply for any purpose; or for the as-
sumption, by either the agency or the member unit, as princi-
pal or guarantor or underwriter of indebtedness incurred on
 account of works or water furnished or sold to the agency or
member unit.
     (c) The sale, lease, or other disposition of water, water
rights, and water storage facilities or interests therein, by the
 agency or by such member unit.
     (d) The operation of works and the delivery of water by
 the agency or by such member unit, except t h a t :
     (1) The works shall be operated in conformity with the
 vested rights and appropriations of each of its member units
 having an interest therein.
     (2) There shall be delivered to each member unit all water
 to which such member unit is entitled under the contract en-
 tered into by the agency and such member unit.
     (3) There shall not be delivered to any member unit more
 water than the amount to which such member unit is entitled
 under the contract entered into by the agency and such mem-
 ber unit, except that the release of water from any reservoir
 in the amount required to satisfy any vested right shall not
 constitute a delivery of water, and any amount of water as-
 signed under Section 28 by one member unit to another mem-
 ber unit shall be delivered to the latter.
     SEC. 25. The agency in its discretion may suspend de-
 livery of water conserved by the agency or obtained by or on
 behalf of the agency or a member unit to any member unit
 during the period which said member unit is delinquent in
 its payment for or obligations due in respect to such water
 under any contract entered into by it with the agency. The
  agency shall not engage in the retail sale of water; that is, the
 sale of water to the ultimate consumer.
     SEC. 26. The liability of each member unit, as distin-
  guished from the liability of its taxpayers and property
  therein for taxes levied by the agency for agency purposes,
  shall be limited to that portion of the total cost for water or
 water supply or to that portion of the total cost of construc-
  tion and the operation and maintenance cost of the works
                   1969
Ch. 12361                 REGULAR SESSION                2405

 acquired or constructed by or on behalf of the agency or
member unit which such member unit agrees to bear.
   The liability of each member unit shall be set forth fully
in a written contract which shall be legally approved by the
member unit in accordance with the laws governing such
member unit. No contract shall be altered or modified without
the consent of the agency and the legal approval of the mem-
ber unit.
   Each contract may provide, among other things:
   (a) The total capital obligation which the member unit
agrees to bear.
   (b) The minimum annual payments which the member unit
shall make in amortization of its capital obligation.
   (c) The amount or pro rata portion of water which shall
be delivered to or held in storage for the member unit.
   (d) The basis of allocation of operation and maintenance
costs to be borne by the member unit.
   (e) The amount or other measure of water supply or water
agreed to be acquired by or furnished or sold to such member
unit and the cost thereof to such member unit. Such contracts
shall be fair and equitable to each contracting party, and no
member unit shall receive any undue advantage over any
other member unit, having proper regard for all factors and
conditions involved.
   Such contracts shall be executed in accordance with the
laws governing such districts.
   SEC. 27. (a) In the event of any reduction in the prin-
cipal of any debt of the agency underwritten by one or more
member units, other than by payment thereof, the amounts to
be paid to the agency by each member unit in amortization of
its remaining portion of such debt shall be reduced propor-
tionately so that the relative obligations of each such member
unit shall be unchanged.
   (b) In the event of any reduction in the rate of interest
being paid on any part of a debt of the agency for which one
or more member units are responsible, the amounts to be paid
the agency by each such member unit shall be reduced pro-
portionately so that the relative obligation of each such mem-
ber unit remains unchanged in respect to its obligation to
pay any remaining interest.
   (c) In determining the amounts to be paid by all member
units for water there shall be deducted from the cost of con-
struction and operation or project works all revenues to be
obtained from the sale of electric energy, if any, developed
and sold by means of the project works.
   SEC. 28. Any member unit may reduce its obligations
under its contract with the agency by assignment to and ac-
ceptance by another member unit of any part of its right to
receive water under its contract except that the assignment
shall be legally approved, in accordance with the laws gov-
erning such member unit, by each member unit which is a
2406              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQJj J 2 3 6

party to the assignment, the total of all payments to be made
by such member units to the agency shall not be reduced by
virtue of the assignment and the assignor member unit may
be required by the agency to guarantee the payments assumed
by the assignee member unit.
   SEC. 29. If any capital asset of the agency is sold or other-
wise disposed of, the net proceeds therefrom shall be dis-
tributed to the member units, or applied against any liability
of the member units to the agency in proportion to the amount
contributed by each member unit to the cost of the capital
asset. However, if any liability on the part of the agency or
its member units for the original cost or any subsequent im-
provement or refinancing of such capital asset is not com-
pletely extinguished at or before the time of the sale or dis-
posal thereof, the agency may apply as much of the proceeds
of the sale as are necessary to extinguish the liability. In ex-
tinguishing such liability, the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied only as the interests and liabilities of the agency
and its member units shall appear.
    SEC. 30. The agency shall have the power to cooperate and
contract with the United States under the Federal Beclama-
tion Act of June 17, 1902, and all acts amendatory thereof and
supplementary thereto or any other act of Congress heretofore
or hereafter enacted permitting cooperation or contract for
 the purposes of construction of works, whether for irrigation,
 drainage, or flood control, or for the acquisition, purchase, ex-
tension, operation and maintenance of such works, or for a
 water supply for any purposes, or for the assumption as prin-
 cipal or guarantor of indebtedness to the United States, or for
 carrying out any of the purposes of the agency, and for said
 purposes the agency shall have, in addition to the powers set
 forth in this act, all powers, rights and privileges possessed by
 irrigation districts as set out in Chapter 2 (commencing with
 Section 23175) of Part 6 of Division 11 of the "Water Code, not
 inconsistent with the provisions of this act.
    SEC. 31. All money collected in pursuance of contract with
 the United States shall be paid into the county treasury to the
 credit of the agency and shall be held in a fund to be known
 as the "United States contract f u n d " to be used for payments
 due to the United States under the contract.
    SEC. 32. The agency may cooperate and act in conjunc-
 tion and contract with the United States, State of California,
 any municipality, district, public or private corporation, or
 any person; in the purchase and sale of water, in the acquisi-
 tion of water or a water supply, in the construction of any
 works for the controlling of flood or storm waters in the
 agency, or for the protection of property, watersheds, water-
 courses, highways and life, or for the purpose of conserving
  and transporting said waters for beneficial uses and purposes,
 including recreational uses and the generation of electric
 energy, and for the use, operation and management and owner-
                    1969
Ch. 1236]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2407

ship of such works. The agency also may make and perform
any agreement with the United States, the state, any county,
municipality, district, public or private corporation, or any
person for the joint acquisition, disposition, operation or man-
agement of any property, works, water or water supply of a
kind which might be acquired, disposed of, or operated by the
agency.
   Any irrigation district, California water district, public
utility district, municipal utility district, county water dis-
trict, water conservation district, municipality, flood control
district, and any other district or political subdivision of the
state empowered by law to appropriate water and deliver
water to users may:
    (a) Cooperate, act in conjunction with and enter into con-
tracts with the agency for all the ptirposes for which the
agency is empowered to cooperate or act in conjunction and
contract with such districts, municipalities, and political sub-
divisions.
    (b) Carry out the terms of such contracts.
    SEC. 33. The board of supervisors of the county shall be
ex officio the board of directors of the agency. The board of
directors may adopt reasonable rules and regulations to carry
out its powers and duties. Each member of the board of super-
visors shall serve as a member of said board of directors with-
out additional compensation, except such member shall be
 allowed his actual, necessary and reasonable traveling ex-
penses. The board of directors shall elect a chairman, who
 shall preside at all meetings of the board and in case of his
 absence or inability to act, the members present must, by an
 order entered in their records, select one of their number to
 act as temporary chairman. Any member of the board may
 administer oaths, when necessary in the performance of his
 official duties. A majority of the members of the board shall
 constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and no act
 of the board shall be valid or binding unless a majority of
 all members concur therein.
     SEC. 34. No director of the agency shall be interested in
 any manner, directly or indirectly, in any contract awarded
  or to be awarded by the board of directors, or in the profits to
 be derived therefrom. A violation of this section is a misde-
 meanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
 fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500), or by impris-
  onment in the county jail of the County of Tuolumne for not
  exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment,
  and such conviction shall by operation of law work a forfeit-
  ure of office. This section shall not apply to a contract made
  with a corporation of which a director is a minority stock-
  holder if the contract is for the general benefit of the corpo-
  ration.
     SEC. 35. All officers of the county, and their assistants,
  deputies, clerks and employees, shall be ex officio officers,
2408               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               \Gh. 1236

  assistants, deputies, clerks and employees respectively of the
  agency, and shall perform, unless otherwise provided by the
  board, the same duties for the agency as performed for the
  county; except that if the county surveyor is a registered civil
  engineer and is employed to supervise the engineering work
  of the agency, the board may provide compensation for his
  services in addition to his salary as county surveyor which
  shall be payable from the funds of the agency.
    SEC. 36. The board may employ agents, superintendents,
 engineers, attorneys, and employees necessary to carry out the
 provisions of this act.
    The board may appoint a secretary and such other officers,
  agents and employees for the board or agency as in its judg-
 ment may be deemed necessary, prescribe their duties and fix
 their compensation, such officers, agents and employees so
 appointed shall hold their respective offices or positions during
 the pleasure of the board.
    SEC. 37. All ordinances, resolutions and other legislative
 acts of the agency shall be adopted by the board, and certified
 to, recorded and published in the same manner, except as
 herein otherwise expressly provided, as are ordinances, reso-
 lutions or other legislative acts of the county.
    The initiative and referendum powers are hereby granted
 to the electors of the agency to be exercised in relation to the
 enactment or rejection of agency ordinances in accordance
 with the procedure established by the laws of this state for
 the exercise of such powers in relation to counties.
    SEC. 38. Claims for money or damages against the agency
 are governed by Part 3 (commencing with Section 900) and
 Part 4 (commencing with Section 940) of Division 3.6 of Title
 1 of the Government Code, except as provided therein. Claims
 not governed thereby or by other statutes or by ordinances or
 regulations authorized by law and expressly applicable to such
 claims shall be prepared and presented to the governing body,
 and all claims shall be audited and paid, in the same manner
 and with the same effect as are similar claims against the
 county.
    SEC. 39. The legal title to all property acquired under the
provisions of this act shall be in the agency and shall be held
for the uses and purposes of this act. The board may hold,
use, acquire, manage, occupy and possess such property and,
after declaring by resolution entered in the minutes that any
real or personal property held by the agency is no longer
necessary, may sell or otherwise dispose of such property, or
lease the same, in the manner provided by law for the disposi-
tion and sale of property by counties.
   SEC. 40. Any improvement or unit of work, when the cost
according to the estimate of the engineer will exceed five thou-
sand dollars ($5,000), shall be done by contract and let to the
lowest responsible bidder or bidders as provided in this section.
                    1969
Ch. 1236]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2409

The board shall first determine whether the contract shall be
let as a single unit for the whole of the work, or divided into
severable convenient parts. The board shall advertise for bids
by three (3) insertions in a daily newspaper of general circu-
lation or by two (2) insertions in a weekly newspaper of gen-
eral circulation printed and published in the agency, inviting
sealed proposals for the construction or performance of the
improvement or work. The call for bids shall state whether
the work shall be performed in one unit or divided into parts.
The work may be let under a single contract or several con-
tracts, as stated in such call. The board shall require the suc-
cessful bidders to file with the board good and sufficient bonds
to be approved by the board conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the contract and upon payment of their claims
for labor and material. The bonds shall comply with Chapter
3, commencing at Section 4200, of Division 5 of Title 1 of the
Government Code. The board may reject any and all bids and
readvertise, or, by a two-thirds vote, may elect to undertake
such work by force account. I n the event no proposals are
received, or the estimated cost of the work does not exceed
five thousand dollars ($5,000), or the work consists of channel
protection, maintenance work, or emergency work when neces-
sary in order to protect life and property from impending
flood damage, the board of supervisors may have the work
done by force account without advertising for bids. The dis-
trict may purchase in the open market without advertising for
bids, materials and supplies for use in any work, either under
contract or by force account.
   SEC. 41. The agency shall not incur any indebtedness' or
liability exceeding in any year the income and revenue pro-
vided for such year, and any indebtedness or liability incurred
in violation of this section shall be absolutely void and un-
enforceable. This section shall have no application to debts or
liabilities incurred pursuant to the provisions of this act
authorizing the issuance of bonds, the levying of special assess-
ments, the execution of contracts with the United States, nor
the incurring of any indebtedness or liability authorized by a
vote of the electors of the agency at an election held for such
purpose.
   SEC. 42. The aggregate of agency indebtedness incurred
pursuant to the provisions of this act authorizing the issuance
of bonds, the levying of special assessments and the execution
of contracts, shall not exceed a sum equal t o : (a) the amount
of all capital obligations underwritten by member units of the
agency, plus (b) the amounts agreed to be paid by member
units to the agency or to the United States for water or a
water supply.
   SEC. 43. The agency shall have the power in any year to
levy an ad valorem tax upon all the taxable property in the
agency to pay any anticipated lawful expenditures of the
agency except the cost of constructing any works; provided,
2410               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQJj J236

 however, that such levy for any one fiscal year shall not exceed
 ten cents ($0.10) on each one hundred dollars ($100) of the
 assessed valuation of the taxable property in the agency ex-
 clusive of any tax levied to meet the bonded indebtedness of
 the agency and the interest thereon authorized by a vote of
 the electors of the agency, and exclusive of any special assess-
 ment levied to meet any indebtedness or contractual liability
 authorized by a vote of the electors of the agency, and ex-
 clusive of any tax levied for the payment of any indebtedness
 represented by capital obligations underwritten by member
 units or represented by the amounts agreed to be paid by
 member units for any water or water supply to be furnished
 or sold such member units.
    Such taxes shall be levied and collected with taxes for
 county purposes, and the revenue derived therefrom shall be
 paid into the county treasury to the credit of the agency, and
 the board shall have the power to control and order the ex-
 penditure thereof for said purposes.
    SEC. 44. The agency may levy a special ad valorem tax on
 all the taxable property in any member unit whenever any
 such member unit is delinquent in any payment due the
 agency under a contract. The tax shall be levied only at a rate
 sufficient to raise the amount delinquent. The tax shall be
 levied and collected at the same time and in the same manner
 as general agency taxes, shall be paid into the county treasury
 to the account of the agency and shall be used only to reduce
 the liability of the delinquent member unit.
    No property in any portion of the agency, other than that
 in the delinquent member unit, shall be liable for or taxed
to pay such delinquency.
    SEC. 45. The provisions of law of this state, prescribing
 the priority, time, and manner of levying, assessing, equaliz-
ing and collecting county property taxes, including the sale of
property for delinquency, and the redemption from such sale,
and the duties of the several county officers with respect
thereto, are hereby adopted for the agency and made a part
hereof, so far as they are applicable and not in conflict with
this act. Such officers shall be liable upon their official bond
for the faithful discharge of the duties imposed upon them
by this act.
   SEC. 46. (a) "Whenever the board determines that a
bonded indebtedness should be incurred to pay the cost of
any work or project, it may determine and declare by resolu-
tion the amount of bonds necessary to be issued in each mem-
ber unit for such work or project, and the maximum rate of
interest of said bonds. The board shall cause a copy of the
resolution, duly certified by the clerk, to be filed for record
in the office of the recorder of the county within five (5) days
after its issuance.
    (b) After filing such resolution, the board shall call a spe-
cial bond election in each said member unit to submit to the
                     1969
Ch. 12361                   REGULAR SESSION                   2411

qualified electors of each member unit the question whether
or not bonds shall be issued in the amount and for the pur-
poses stated in the resolution. The bonds and the interest
thereon shall be paid from revenue derived from annual taxes
or assessments levied as provided in this act.
   (c) The special bond election shall be called by ordinance
and the board shall submit to the qualified electors of each
member unit, the proposition of incurring a bonded debt in
the member unit or member units in the amount and for the
purposes stated in the resolution and shall recite therein the
purposes for which the indebtedness is proposed to be in-
curred, except that it shall be sufficient to give a brief, general
description of such purposes, and refer to the recorded copy
of the resolution. The ordinance shall also state the estimated
cost of the proposed work and improvements, the amount of
the principal of the indebtedness to be incurred therefor, and
the maximum rate of interest to be paid on the indebtedness
and shall fix the date on which the special election shall be
held, and the form and contents of the ballot to be used. The
rate of interest to be paid on the indebtedness shall not exceed
6J percent per annum. For the purposes of the election, the
board shall establish special bond election precincts within the
boundaries of each member unit and may form election pre-
cincts by consolidating the precincts established for general
elections in the agency, not to exceed six general precincts for
each such special bond election precinct. In addition, the ordi-
nance shall designate a polling place and appoint one inspector,
one judge and one clerk for each special bond election precinct.
   The special bond election shall be held as nearly as prac-
ticable in conformity with the general election laws of the
state except as otherwise provided in this act.
   The board shall cause a map or maps to be prepared cov-
ering a general description of the work to be done, which
map shall show the location of the proposed works and im-
provements and shall cause the map to be posted in a promi-
nent place in the county courthouse for public inspection at
least thirty (30) days before the date of the election.
   Said ordinance calling for the special bond election shall
be published prior to the date set for such election in a news-
paper of general circulation, circulated in each member unit
affected for six consecutive times if published in a daily news-
paper of general circulation, or two times if published in a
weekly newspaper of general circulation. The last publication
of the ordinance must be at least fourteen (14) days before
the election, and if there be no such newspaper, then the
ordinance shall be posted in five public places designated by
the board in each affected member unit for at least thirty (30)
days before the date of the election. No other notice of elec-
tion need be given nor need polling place cards be issued.
   Any defect or irregularity in the proceedings prior to the
calling of the special bond election shall not affect the validity
2412              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQJj } 2 3 6

of the bonds authorized by said election. If at such election
two-thirds (f) of the votes cast in a member unit are in favor
of incurring such bonded indebtedness, then bonds for such
member unit for the amount stated in the proceedings may
be issued and sold as provided in this act.
   SEC. 47. The board shall prescribe by resolution the form
of the bonds, which shall include a designation of the member
units affected, and the form of the interest coupons attached
to the bonds. Said bonds shall be payable annually or semi-
annually, at the discretion of the board, on a day and at a
place designated in the bonds, together with the interest on
all sums unpaid on such date until the whole of said indebted-
ness is paid.
   The board may divide the principal amount of any issue
into two or more series and fix different dates for the bonds
of each series. The bonds of one series may be made payable
at different times from those of any other series. The maturity
of each series shall comply with this section. The board may
fix a date, not more than two years from the date of issuance,
for the earliest maturity of each issue or series of bonds.
Beginning with the date of the earliest maturity of each issue
 or series, not less than one-fortieth (%o) of the indebtedness
of such issue or series shall be paid every year. The final matu-
rity date shall not exceed forty (40) years from the time of
incurring the indebtedness evidenced by each issue or series.
    The bonds shall be issued in such denominations as the
board may determine, except that no bonds shall be of a less
 denomination than one hundred dollars ($100), nor of a
 greater denomination than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and
shall be payable on the days and at the place fixed in said
 bonds, and with interest at the rate specified in such bonds,
which rate shall not be in excess of 6 J percent per annum,
 and shall be made payable annually or semiannually, and
 said bonds shall be numbered consecutively and shall be
 signed by the chairman of the board, and countersigned by
 the auditor of said agency and the seal of said agency shall
 be affixed thereto by the clerk of the board. Either or both
 such signatures may be printed, engraved or lithographed.
 The interest coupons of said bonds shall be numbered con-
 secutively and signed by the said auditor by his printed, en-
 graved, or lithographed signature. In case any such officer
 whose signatures or countersignatures appear on the bonds or
 coupons shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of
 such bonds to the purchaser, such bonds and coupons, and sig-
 natures or countersignatures shall nevertheless be valid and
 sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had re-
 mained in office until the delivery of the bonds.
    SEC. 48. The board may issue and sell the bonds of such
 member units at not less than par value, and the proceeds of
 the sale of such bonds shall be placed in the treasury of the
 county to the credit of said agency and the respective member
                    1969
Ch. 12361                  REGULAR SESSION                 2413

units thereof, for the uses and purposes of the member unit or
member units voting said bonds; and in the proper record of
such transactions shall be placed upon the books of said county
treasurer, and said respective member unit funds shall be ap-
plied exclusively to the purposes and objects mentioned in the
ordinance calling such special bond election. Payments from
said member unit funds shall be made upon demands pre-
pared, presented, allowed and audited in the same manner as
demands upon any of the funds of the county.
   SEC. 49. Any bonds issued under the provisions of this
act, and the interest thereon, shall be paid by revenue derived
from an annual tax or assessment levied as provided in Sec-
tion 50. No member unit nor the property therein nor other
lands within the agency shall be liable for the share of bonded
indebtedness of any other member unit for which bonds are
issued under this act, nor shall any moneys derived from taxa-
tion or assessment in any of the several member units be used
in payment of principal or interest or otherwise of the share
of bonded indebtedness chargeable to any other member unit.
   SEC. 50. The board shall levy a tax or assessment each
year in the member unit or member units of issuance, sufficient
to pay the interest and such portion of the principal of said
bonds as is due or to become due before the time- for making
the next general tax levy. Such taxes or assessments shall be
levied and collected in the respective member units of issuance
with taxes for county purposes, and when collected shall be
paid into the county treasury of the county to the credit of
the member unit of issuance, and be used for the payment of
the principal and interest on said bonds and for no other pur-
pose. The principal and interest on said bonds shall be paid by
the county treasurer in the manner provided by law for the
payment of principal and interest on bonds of said county.
   SEC. 51. If the board by resolution determines that a
bonded indebtedness to pay the acquisition or construction
of any works for any purposes of the agency or for refunding
any outstanding bonds should be incurred and can be repaid
and liquidated as to both principal and interest from revenues
designated by the board, other than taxes levied in the agency
or any member unit, the board may incur such indebtedness
upon approval by the California Districts Securities Commis-
sion and in the manner, for the purposes, and to the extent
authorized and provided in Sections 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50
hereof for the issuance of general obligation bonds except that
such revenue bonds may be issued when a majority vote of
the qualified electors voting on the proposition at an election,
favor the issuance of the bonds.
   SEC. 52. Any improvement for which bonds are voted
under the provisions of this act, shall be made in conformity
with the report, plans, specifications and map theretofore
adopted, as above specified, unless the doing of any of such
work described in said report, shall be prohibited by law, or
2414              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1236

be rendered contrary to the best interests of the district by
some change of conditions in relation thereto, in which event
the board may order necessary changes made in such proposed
work or improvements and may cause any plans and specifica-
tions to be made and adopted therefor.
    Whenever bonds have been authorized by any member unit
or member units of the agency and the proceeds of the sale
thereof have been expended as authorized in this act, and
the board shall by resolution determine that additional bonds
should be issued for carrying out any of the purposes of this
act, the board may again proceed as provided in this act, and
submit to the qualified voters of said member unit or member
units the question of issuing additional bonds in the same
manner and with like procedures as provided in this act, and
the above provisions of this act for the issuing and sale of
 such bonds, and for the expenditure of the proceeds thereof,
 shall be deemed to apply to such issue of additional bonds.
    Should a proposition for issuing bonds for any member unit
 or member units submitted at any election under this act fail
 to receive the requisite number of votes of the qualified elec-
 tors voting at such election to incur the indebtedness the
 board shall not call or order, within six months after such
 election, another election in such member unit or member
 units for incurring indebtedness and issuing bonds under this
 act for the same purpose.
     The repeal or amendment of this act shall not in any way
 affect or release any of the property in the agency or any
 member unit thereof from the obligations of any outstanding
 bonds or indebtedness until all such bonds and outstanding
 indebtedness have been fully paid and discharged.
     SEC. 53. The agency may issue revenue bonds in its name
 and as its obligation, but neither principal nor the interest of
 any bond issued or sold pursuant to Section 51 shall become
 a lien, charge, or liability against any property in the agency,
 the State of California, or against the agency or any property
 or funds thereof or therein, except to the extent of the pledge
 of revenues or part of revenues of the works, as may be pro-
 vided by the indenture pursuant to which revenue bonds are
 issued, and each such bond issued by the district shall contain
 a recital on the face thereof substantially as follows:
     "This bond is not a lien, charge or liability, as to either
 principal or interest against any property in the Tuolumne
  County "Water Agency, the State of California, or against the
  Tuolumne County Water Agency or any property or funds
  thereof, except to the extent of the pledge of revenues or part
  of revenues as provided by the indenture pursuant to which
  it is issued."
     SEC. 54. The agency shall determine the time, form and
  manner of issuance of revenue bonds.
     SEC. 55. The agency may enter into indentures providing
  for the aggregate principal amount, date or dates, maturities,
Ch. 1236]           1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2415

interest rates, denominations, form, registration, transfer, and
interchange of any revenue bonds and coupons issued pursuant
to this act, and the terms and conditions on which the same
shall be executed, issued, secured, sold, paid, redeemed, funded
and refunded. Eeference on the face of the bonds to such
indenture by its date of adoption, or the apparent date on the
face thereof, is sufficient to incorporate all of the provisions
thereof and of this act into the body of the bonds and their
appurtenant coupons. Each taker and subsequent holder of the
bonds or coupons, whether the coupons are attached to or de-
tached from the bonds, has recourse to all of the provisions of
the indenture and of this act, and is bound thereby.
   SEC. 56. An indenture pursuant to which bonds are issued
may include any and all such covenants and agreements on the
part of the agency as the agency deems necessary or advisable
for the better security of the bonds issued thereunder.
   SEC. 57. An indenture shall provide the means by which
payments of principal and interest of bonds shall be secured.
   SEC. 58. An indenture may include a clause relating to the
bonds issued thereunder requiring the agency to pay or cause
to be paid punctually the principal of all such bonds and the
interest thereon on the date or dates, or at the place or places,
and in the manner mentioned in such bonds and in the cou-
pons appertaining thereto in accordance with such indenture.
   SEC. 59. An indenture may include a clause relating to the
bonds issued thereunder, requiring the agency to operate the
conservation works continuously, to the extent practicable un-
der conditions as they may from time to time exist, in an effi-
cient and economical manner.
   SEC. 60. An indenture may include a clause relating to the
bonds issued thereunder requiring the agency to make all
necessary repairs, renewals and replacements to any conserva-
tion works, and to keep the project at all times in good repair,
working order and condition.
   SEC. 61. An indenture may include a clause relating to the
bonds issued thereunder requiring the agency to preserve and
protect the security of the bonds and the rights of the holders
thereof and to warrant and defend such rights.
   SEC. 62. An indenture may include a clause relating to the
bonds issued thereunder requiring the agency to pay and dis-
charge or cause to be paid and discharged all lawful claims for
labor, materials and supplies or other charges which, if un-
paid, might become a lien or charge upon the revenues, or
any part thereof, of any project acquired, constructed or com-
pleted from the proceeds of the sale of the bonds, or upon
any physical properties, or which might impair the security
of the bonds.
   SEC. 63. An indenture may include a clause relating to the
bonds issued thereunder which limits, restricts, or prohibits
any right, power or privilege of the agency to mortgage or
otherwise encumber, sell, lease or dispose of any improvements
2416               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ ( ^ J236

 constructed from the proceeds of the bonds, or otherwise
 owned or operated by the agency or to enter into any lease
 or agreement which impairs or impedes the operation of con-
 servation works, or any part thereof, necessary to secure ade-
 quate revenues or which otherwise impairs or impedes the
 rights of the holders of the bonds with respect to such reve-
 nues.
    SEC. 64. An indenture may include a clause relating to
 the bonds issued thereunder requiring the agency to fix, pre-
 scribe and collect rates, rentals or other charges in connection
 with the services and facilities furnished from the conserva-
 tion works acquired, constructed or purchased from part or
 all of the proceeds of the bonds, sufficient to pay the principal
 of and interest on the bonds as they become due and payable,
 together with such additional sums as may be required for
 any sinking fund, reserve fund or other special fund provided
 for the further security of such bonds or as a depreciation
 charge or other charges in connection with such project.
    SEC. 65. An indenture may include a clause relating to
 the bonds issued thereunder requiring the agency to hold or
 cause to be held in trust the revenues or any part of revenues
 pledged to the payment of such bonds and the interest thereon,
 or to any reserve or other fund created for the further protec-
 tion of the bonds, and to apply such revenues or part of reve-
 nues or cause them to be applied only as provided in the
 indenture.
    An indenture may include a clause denning the power of the
 agency in applying the proceeds of the sale of any issue of
bonds for the acquiring, construction, or completing of any
conservation works or any part thereof.
    SEC. 66. An indenture may include a clause subjecting
the power of the agency to issue additional bonds to such con-
 ditions as the agency deems necessary.
    SEC. 67. An indenture may include a clause requiring,
specifying or limiting the kind, amount and character of in-
surance to be maintained by the agency on any works, or
any part thereof, and the use and disposition of the proceeds
of any such insurance thereafter collected.
   SEC. 68. An indenture may include a clause providing the
events of default and the terms and conditions upon which
any or all of the bonds of the agency then or thereafter issued
may become or be declared due and payable prior to maturity,
and the terms and conditions upon which such declaration
and its consequences may be waived.
   SEC. 69. An indenture may include a clause designating
the rights, limitations, powers and duties arising upon breach
by the agency of any of the covenants, conditions, or obliga-
tions contained in any indenture.
   SEC. 70. An indenture may include a clause prescribing
a procedure by which the terms and conditions of the inden-
ture may be subsequently amended or modified with the con-
                     1969
Ch. 1236]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2417

sent of the agency and the vote or written assent of the holders
of a specified principal amount or specified proportion of the
bonds issued and outstanding. Such clause may provide for
meetings of bondholders and for the manner in which the
consent of the bondholders may be given. The clause shall
specifically state the effect of such amendment or modification
upon the rights of the holders of all of the bonds and interest
coupons appertaining thereto, whether attached thereto or
detached therefrom.
   With respect to any clause providing for the modification or
amendment of an indenture, the agency may agree that bonds
held by the agency or by the State of California or any politi-
cal subdivision thereof shall not be counted as outstanding
bonds, or be entitled to vote or assent, but shall, nevertheless,
be subject to any such modification or amendment.
   SEC. 71. An indenture may include a clause or clauses
providing for such other acts and matters as may be necessary
or convenient or desirable in order better to secure the bonds
or to make the bonds more marketable.
   SEC. 72. The agency may designate a bank or trust com-
pany qualified to do business in this state, as a trustee for the
agency and the holders of bonds issued under this act, and
may authorize the trustee to act on behalf of the holders of
the bonds, or any stated percentage thereof, and to exercise
and prosecute on behalf of the holders of the bonds such
rights and remedies as may be available to the holders.
   SEC. 73. The agency may fix and determine the conditions
upon which any trustee shall receive, hold or disburse any or
all revenues deposited with it by or by authority of the agency.
The agency shall prescribe the duties and powers of any such
trustee with respect to the issuance, authentication, sale and
delivery of the bonds and the payment of principal and in-
terest thereof, the redemption of the bonds, the registration
and discharge from registration of the bonds, and the manage-
ment of any sinking fund or other funds provided as security
for the bonds.
   SEC. 74. The agency may provide for one or several issues
of bonds and may issue bonds in series or may divide any issue
into one or more divisions and fix different maturities or dates
of such bonds, different rates of interest, or prescribe different
terms and conditions for the bonds of the several series or di-
visions. I t is not necessary that all bonds of the same author-
ized issue be of the same kind or character, have the same
security, or be of the same interest rate, but the terms thereof
shall in each case be provided for by the agency, at or prior to
the issue thereof.
   SEC. 75. Bonds may be issued as coupon bonds or as regis-
tered bonds. The agency may provide for the interchange of
coupon bonds for registered bonds and registered bonds for
coupon bonds, and may provide that the bonds shall be regis-
2418              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              m j j J236

tered as to principal only, or as to both principal and inter-
est, or otherwise as the agency may determine.
    SEC. 76. Bonds may be callable upon such terms, condition,
and upon such notice as the agency may determine, and upon
the payment of such premium as may be fixed by the agency
in the proceedings for the issuance of the bonds. No bond is
subject to call or redemption prior to its fixed maturity date
unless the right to exercise such call is expressly stated on the
face of the bond.
    SEC. 77. The agency may provide for the payment of the
principal and interest of bonds at any place within or without
the State of California, and in specified coin or currency of
the United States.
    SEC. 78. Bonds shall bear dates prescribed by the agency.
Bonds may be serial bonds or sinking fund bonds with such
maturities as the agency may determine. No bond by its terms
shall mature in more than 50 years from its own date and, in
the event any authorized issue is divided into two or more series
or divisions, the maximum maturity date herein authorized
 shall be calculated from the date on the face of each bond
separately, irrespective of the fact that different dates may be
prescribed for the bonds of each separate series or division of
any authorized issue.
    SEC. 79. Bonds may be sold at either public or private sale.
 The agency may fix terms and conditions for the sale or other
 disposition of any authorized issue of bonds.
    SEC. 80. All costs and expenses incident to the issuance
 and sale of bonds may be paid out of the proceeds of the sale
 of the bonds. Interest on bonds may be paid out of the pro-
 ceeds of the sale of the bonds during the actual construction
 of any works for the acquisition, construction or completion of
 which the bonds have been issued, and for a period of not to
 exceed two (2) years thereafter as provided for in the in-
 denture.
    SEC. 81. The agency may provide that the bonds and the
 interest thereon shall be secured by all or by part of revenues
 of a conservation works upon the basis of which revenue bonds
 are issued or authorized to be issued, and shall constitute such
 lien upon the revenues of such conservation works as may be
 provided for in the indenture.
    SEC. 82. Pending the actual issuance or delivery of reve-
 nue bonds, the agency may issue temporary or interim bonds,
 certificates or receipts of any denominations whatsoever, and
 with or without coupons, to be exchanged for definitive bonds
when ready for delivery.
    SEC. 83. The agency may provide for the replacement of
 lost, destroyed or mutilated bonds, or coupons.
    SEC. 84. Bonds issued pursuant to the provisions of this
 act and the interest or income therefrom are exempt from all
 taxation in this state other than gift, inheritance and estate
 taxes.
                    1969
Ch. 1236]                  REGULAR SESSION                2419

    SEC. 85. Bonds issued and sold pursuant to the provisions
of this act are legal investments for all trust funds and for
the funds of all insurance companies, banks, both commercial
and savings trust companies, the state school funds, and any
public or private funds which may be invested in county, mu-
nicipal or school district bonds, and may be deposited as
security for the performance of any act whenever the bonds of
any county, municipal or school district may be so deposited.
    SEC. 86. The agency may provide for the issuance, sale or
exchange of refunding revenue bonds for the purpose of re-
deeming or retiring any revenue bonds issued by the agency.
All provisions of this act applicable to the issuance of revenue
bonds are applicable to the funding revenue bonds or refund-
ing revenue bonds and to the issuance, sale or exchange thereof.
    SEC. 87. Funding or refunding revenue bonds may be is-
sued in a principal amount sufficient to provide funds for the
payment of all bonds to be funded or refunded thereby, and
in addition for the payment of all expenses incident to the
 calling, retiring or paying of such outstanding bonds, and the
 issuance of such funding or refunding revenue bonds. These
 expenses include the difference in amount between the par
 value of the funding or refunding revenue bonds and any
 amount less than par for which the funding or refunding rev-
 enue bonds are sold, any amount necessary to be made avail-
 able for the payment of interest upon such funding or refund-
 ing revenue bonds from the date of sale thereof to the date of
 payment of the bonds to be funded or refunded or to the date
 upon which the bonds to be funded or refunded will be paid
 pursuant to the call thereof or agreement with the holders
 thereof, and the premium, if any, necessary to be paid in order
 to call or retire the outstanding bonds and the interest accru-
 ing thereon to the date of the call or retirement.
     SEC. 88. All bonds issued under the provisions of this act
 are negotiable instruments, except when registered in the name
 of a registered owner.
     SEC. 89. Before issuing any revenue bond or bonds pur-
  suant to the provisions of this act, the board shall by resolu-
  tion declare the purpose for which the proceeds of the bonds
  proposed to be issued shall be expended and shall specify the
  maximum amount of bonds to be issued or sold for such pur-
  pose, and bonds shall not be issued or sold for such purpose
  in an amount exceeding such specified maximum except with
  the consent of the bondholders, pursuant to amendment or
  modification of an indenture, as provided in Section 66 of this
  act. Nothing in this section shall prevent the board from
  amending such resolution prior to the issuance of bonds au-
  thorized thereby to increase or decrease the maximum amount
  of bonds to be issued or sold.
     SEC. 90. The agency may insure against loss of revenues
  from any cause whatsoever and the proceeds of any such in-
   surance shall be used solely for the payment of bonds and the
2420               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1236

  interest thereon. The agency may provide an indenture for the
 carrying of public liability or property damage insurance or
 insurance against loss by fire or other hazards or any other
 insurance in amount or in such character as it shall determine,
 and for the payment of the premiums thereon.
    SEC. 91. The agency may provide in an indenture that the
 proceeds from the sale of all revenue bonds authorized under
 this act shall be paid direct to the county treasurer designated
 by the agency as the fiscal agent or depositary of the district,
 to be held in a separate account to be designated the "con-
 struction fund" and to he disbursed in the manner and upon
 the conditions provided in the indenture for the acquisition,
 construction and completion of the project, including the pay-
 ment of the cost of all surveys, preparation of plans and speci-
 fications, and the payment of all architectural, engineering,
 legal and administrative costs, and in addition for the pay-
 ment of all costs and expenses of and incident to the forma-
 tion of the district and the issuance and sale of bonds and the
 payment of interest due or to become due on the bonds during
 the period of actual construction, and for such further period
 as may be specified in the indenture for the issuance of the
 bonds not exceeding two (2) years after the period of con-
 struction.
    SEC. 92. Moneys in any construction fund may be invested
 as the agency in its sole discretion shall determine, subject
 only to such limitations as may be provided in an indenture
 providing for the issuance of revenue bonds.
    SEC. 93. After all of the revenue bonds shall have been
 fully paid and discharged, or provision for their payment and
 discharge irrevocably made, any surplus moneys in the
 construction fund shall, subject to the limitations and restric-
 tions in any indenture providing for the issuance of the reve-
nue bonds, become and be the property of the agency, and be
used by the agency for any lawful purpose.
    SEC. 94. An action to determine the validity of bonds, levy
of a special assessment or a contract may be brought pursuant
to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 860) of Title 10 of
Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure. In any such action all
findings of fact or conclusions of the board upon all matters
shall be conclusive unless the action was instituted within six
months after the finding or conclusion was made.
    SEC. 95. Neither the establishment of the agency nor any
provisions of this act shall affect, restrict nor supersede the
existence, property, right, or power of any municipality, pub-
lic district, or public agency now or hereafter established in
or partially within the limits of the agency for the purpose of
flood control, reclamation, conservation, storage, distribution,
sale, use, or development of water. The Legislature, because
of conditions special to the county, hereby expressly declares
its intent to permit within the limits of the Tuolumne County
"Water Agency, the existence of more than one district, munic-
                     1969
 Ch. 12361                  REGULAR SESSION                  2421

  ipality or combination thereof, having similar powers over
  similar territory in regard to flood control, reclamation and
  water conservation, storage, distribution, sale, use or develop-
  ment.
     SEC. 96. Neither the formation of the agency nor this act
  shall impair the vested right of any person, association, cor-
  poration, municipality or public district in or to any water
  or the use thereof.
    SEC. 97. The agency, in order to determine the legality
 of its existence, may institute a proceeding therefor in the
 superior court of this state, in and for the County of Tuol-
 umne, by filing with the clerk of said county a complaint
 setting forth the name of the agency, its exterior boundaries,
 the date of its organization and a prayer that it be adjudged
 a legal agency formed under this act. The summons in such
 proceeding shall be served by publishing a copy thereof once
 a week for four (4) weeks in a newspaper of general circu-
 lation published in the county. The State of California shall
 be a defendant in such action, and consent therefor is given.
 Service of summons therein shall be made on the Attorney
 General. The Attorney General shall appear in such action
 on behalf of the state in the same manner as with appearances
 in civil actions. Within thirty (30) days after proof of publi-
 cation of said summons the state, any property owner or
 resident in said agency, or any person interested may appear
 as a defendant in said action by serving and filing an answer
to said complaint, in which case said answer shall set forth
the facts relied upon to show the invalidity of the agency and
 shall be served upon the district attorney before being filed
in such proceeding. Such proceeding is hereby declared to be
 a proceeding in rem and the final judgment rendered therein
 shall be conclusive against all persons whomsoever, including
 the agency and the State of California.
    SEC. 98. The agency may be dissolved in the manner pro-
vided for the dissolution of districts by the District Eeorga-
nization Act of 1965, Division 1 (commencing with Section
56000) of Title 6 of the Government Code, and the agency shall
be considered a district within the meaning of all of the pro-
visions of such act for the purpose of dissolution.
    SEC. 99. The Legislature hereby finds that water prob-
lems in the county require countywide water conservation,
flood control and development of water resources; that these
problems are not general or statewide; that the county for
many years has had made investigations and engineering sur-
veys of the county's water resources by private, public and
United States engineers; that county water districts, munici-
palities, and water conservation districts now exist within por-
tions of the county, have acquired property and works,
developed a limited water supply, and have incurred indebted-
ness, but have been and are unable alone to economically
develop an adequate water supply and control the floods of
2422                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Qh. J237

said eounty and for such reason it is necessary to have a
political entity coextensive with the geographical limits of the
entire county; that the county cannot be supplied with water
from a common source or by a common system of works; that
investigation having shown conditions in said county to be
peculiar to it. It is, therefore, hereby declared that a general
law cannot be made applicable to said county and that the en-
actment of this special law is necessary for the conservation,
development, control and use of said water for the public good
and for the protection of life and property therein.
   SEC. 100. If any provision of this act is declared unconsti-
tutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder of the act
shall not thereby be invalidated, but shall remain in full
force and effect.

                         CHAPTER 1237
An act to add Section 10094.2 to, and to repeal Section 10101
         of, the Insurance Code, relating to insurance.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10094.2 is added to the Insurance Code,
to read:
   10094.2. The facility shall, pursuant to regulations
adopted by the commissioner, provide for a method whereby
insurers who voluntarily write basie property insurance on
risks located in areas designated as brush hazard areas by the
Pacific Fire Eating Bureau will, to that extent, be proportion-
ately relieved of the liability to participate in a plan adopted
pursuant to this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall pre-
clude adoption of a plan or plans to allow proportionate credit
for voluntary writings in other areas or for other classes of
insurance.
   SEC. 2. Section 10101 of the Insurance Code is repealed.


                         CHAPTEE 1238
An act to amend Sections 6826, 6872.1, 6872.2, and 6873.2
  of the Public Resources Code, relating to leases and surveys.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 6826 of the Public Eesources Code is
amended to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1238]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2423

   6826. The commission may permit geological or geophysical
surveys on state lands and may grant permits therefor upon
such terms and conditions as the commission shall specify by
regulation, but any such permit shall not give the permittee
any preferential right to an oil and gas lease. Whenever the
granting of any such permit is being considered by the com-
mission, it shall, prior to granting the permit, hold a public
hearing on the matter and give not less than sixty (60) days'
written notice thereof to each city or county adjacent to the
area where such surveys would be conducted, and shall publish
such notice in the manner prescribed in Section 6834 of this
chapter. The taking of cores and other sample may be con-
ducted on and under state lands; provided, that the commis-
sion shall require that a permit first be obtained covering such
types of drilling operations for the purpose of obtaining geo-
logical samples as the commission may determine by regulation,
such permit to be issued upon such terms and conditions as
the commission may specify by regulation, but any such permit
shall not give the permittee any preferential right to an oil
and gas lease.
   The commission shall require, as a condition to the issuance
of any permit for the conduct of geological or geophysical
surveys on tide and submerged lands under this section, that
the permittee make available to the commission, upon request,
all factual and physical exploration results, logs, and records
resulting from the operations under the permit. Any such fac-
tual or physical exploration results, logs, or records which the
permittee is required to make available to the commission shall
be for the confidential use of the commission and shall not be
open to inspection by any other person or agency without the
written consent of the permittee.
   I t is a misdemeanor for any member of the commission, any
officer or employee of the commission, or any person perform-
 ing any function or work assigned to him by the commission,
 to disclose to any person who is not a member, officer, em-
 ployee of the commission or to any person who is not perform-
 ing any function or work assigned to him by the commission,
 any information obtained from the inspection of such factual
 or physical exploration results, logs, or records, or to use such
 information for purposes other than the administration of the
 functions, responsibilities, and duties vested in the commission
 by law, except upon the written consent of the permittee
 making available such information to the commission.
    SEC. 2. Section 6872.1 of the Public Resources Code is
 amended to read:
    6872.1. Whenever it appears to the commission that oil and
 gas deposits are known or believed to be contained in any such
 lands as are described in Section 6871.2, subdivision (b), of
 this code or in tide and submerged lands along the coast of the
2424              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQJj J 2 3 8

Pacific Ocean south of the northerly city limits of the City of
Newport Beach in Orange County to the southerly boundary
of the state, and are being drained by means of wells upon ad-
jacent lands owned by others than the state, the commission
shall thereupon be authorized and empowered to lease state-
owned tide and submerged lands adjacent to any such wells
for the production of oil and gas therefrom, either as a tract
or in parcels of such size and shape as the commission shall
determine but only within an area and to an extent necessary
to offset such drainage of state-owned tide and submerged
lands by any such wells upon adjacent lands owned by others.
   SEC. 3. Section 6872.2 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   6872.2. If the commission determines that any tide and sub-
merged lands belonging to the state in the area hereinafter
referred to should be drilled pursuant to the terms of Section
6872.1 of this code, then, notwithstanding the provisions
of Section 6874 of this code, in order to preserve and protect
the highly developed recreational and residential area now re-
ferred to, the commission shall require that any well or wells
drilled pursuant to the terms of any lease issued with respect
to any part of the hereinafter described area be slant-drilled
from an upland or littoral site to and into the subsurface of
the tide or submerged lands covered by the lease. The area to
which this section is applicable is the tide and submerged lands
along the coast of the Pacific Ocean south of the northerly city
limits of the City of Newport Beach in Orange County to the
southerly boundary of the state.
   SEC. 4. Section 6873.2 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   6873.2. Before offering any tide or submerged land area
or beds of navigable rivers or lakes in any area for an oil and
gas lease, the commission shall hold a public hearing on the
matter within a city or county adjacent to such area and give
not less than sixty (60) days' written notice thereof to each ad-
jacent city or county, and to the Department of Parks and Rec-
reation, and shall publish such notice in the manner prescribed
in Section 6834 of this chapter. The commission shall propose
at such hearing a plan for the control of subsidence and pollu-
tion which might occur as a result of the proposed oil and gas
operation.
   In not less than thirty (30) days after such hearing the
commission shall determine whether or not to offer the land
for lease, as provided under Sections 6871.3, 6872 and 6872.1.
In such determination the commission shall consider whether
the issuance of a lease as to all or a part of such lands would
result in an impairment or interference with the developed
riverbank or shoreline recfeational or residential areas adja-
cent to the proposed leased acreage, or whether to offer such
                       1969
Ch. 1239]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2425

land for lease as to all or a part thereof and include in the
offer for lease such reasonable rules and regulations which,
in the opinion of the commission, are necessary for the explora-
tion, development, and operation of said lease in a manner
which will not impair or interfere with said developed river-
bank or shoreline recreational or residential areas; provided,
however, that no tide or submerged lands or beds of navigable
rivers or lakes shall be offered for lease under any conditions,
rules, or regulations which will result in a discrimination
between bidders as prohibted by Section 6874.
   The commission in determining whether the issuance of such
lease or leases would result in such impairment or interference
with the developed riverbank or shoreline, recreational or resi-
dential areas adjacent to the proposed leased acreage or in
determining such rules and regulations as shall be necessary
in connection therewith shall at said hearing receive evidence
upon and consider whether such proposed lease or leases would
   (a) Be detrimental to the health, safety, comfort, conven-
ience, or welfare of persons residing in, owning real property,
or working in the neighborhood of such areas;
   (b) Interfere with the developed riverbank or shoreline,
residential or recreational areas to an extent that would render
such areas unfit for recreational or residential uses or unfit
for park purposes;
   (c) Destroy, impair, or interfere with the esthetic and
scenic value of such recreational, residential or park areas;
   (d) Create any fire hazard or hazards, or smoke, smog or
dust nuisance, or pollution of waters surrounding or adjoin-
ing said areas.
   Authority to hold the hearings provided in this section may
be delegated by the commissioner to its officers or employees.


                              CHAPTER 1239
An act to add Section 23755.5 to the Education Code, relating
         to residency determinations at state colleges.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 23755.5 is added to the Education
Code, to read:
  23755.5. A person is a resident student of this state for
the year immediately following the date he becomes 21 years
of age if he was deemed to be a resident student pursuant to
Section 23755 on the residency determination date immediately
preceding the date he became 21 years of age.
2426              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQfa J 2 4 0

                        CHAPTER 1240
        An act to add Section 509.5 to the Welfare and
         Institutions Code, relating to juvenile halls.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 509.5 is added to the Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:
   509.5. The Youth Authority shall adopt minimum stand-
ards for determining the suitability of juvenile halls for the
confinement of minors.
   Any violation of such standards shall render a juvenile hall
unsuitable for the confinement of minors for purposes of Sec-
tion 509.

                        CHAPTER 1241
An act to add Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 27000)
  to Division 21 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to
  pet food, and making an appropriation  therefor.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 27000)
is added to Division 21 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:

             CHAPTER 3.5.     PROCESSED P E T FOODS

                    Article 1.     Definitions
   27000. "Processed pet food" means a food for pets which
has been prepared by heating, drying, semidrying, canning,
or by a method of treatment prescribed by regulation of the
State Department of Public Health. The term includes special
diet, health foods, supplements, treats and candy for pets, but
does not include fresh or frozen pet foods subject to the con-
trol of the Department of Agriculture of this state.
   27001. " P e t " means any household animal including but
not limited to cats or dogs and other carnivores whether or
not for exhibition.
   27002. " P e t food ingredients" means each of the constitu-
ent materials making up a processed pet food. Pet food in-
gredients of animal or poultry origin shall be only from ani-
mals or poultry slaughtered or processed in an approved or
licensed establishment. Such animal or poultry ingredients
condemned for human food but passed for animal food in an
establishment inspected by the United States Department of
                    1969
Ch. 1241]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2427

Agriculture or the Department of Agriculture of this state
may be used for pet food, provided it is properly denatured
or handled in accordance with this chapter and regulations
of the State Department of Public Health and the regulations
of the Department of Agriculture of this state so as to render
the ingredients safe for pet food. Animals or poultry classified
as " d e a d s " are prohibited.
   27003. Incubator reject eggs may not be used in food for
human consumption but may be used for animal food or
animal-food products.
   27004. The term "advertisement" means all representa-
tions disseminated in any manner or by any means for the
purpose of inducing, or which are likely to induce, directly
or indirectly, the purchase of processed pet food. An advertise-
ment shall be deemed false if it is false or misleading in any
particular.
   27005. If an article is alleged to be misbranded because the
labeling is misleading, or if an advertisement is alleged to be
false because it is misleading, then in determining whether
the labeling or advertisement is misleading, there shall be
taken into account, among other things, not only misrepresenta-
tions made or suggested by statement, word, design, device,
sound, or in any combination thereof, but also the extent to
which the labeling or advertisement fails to reveal facts mate-
rial in the light of such representations or material with re-
spect to consequences which may result from the use of the
article to which the labeling or advertisement relates under
the conditions of use prescribed in the labeling or advertise-
ment thereof or under such conditions of use as are customary
or usual.
   27006. This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as
the Pure Pet Food Act of 1969.

       Article 2.   Licenses and Eegistration Certificates
   27010. Every person who manufactures a processed pet
food in California shall first obtain a license from, and every
person who manufactures a processed pet food for import into
California from another state shall first obtain a registration
certificate from, the State Department of Public Health. Each
license or registration certificate is good for one calendar year
from the date of issue and is nontransferable.
   An application for a license or registration certificate shall
be made on an application form provided by the department.
   27011. A separate license shall be required for each process-
ing plant located in California.
   The annual license fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100).
 The annual registration fee shall be one hundred dollars
 ($100). The penalty for failure to apply for renewal of a
license or registration certificate within 30 days after the ex-
piration is thirty dollars ($30) and shall be added to the re-
2428               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r Q ^ ^£41

newal fee and be paid by the applicant before the renewal
 license or registration certificate may be issued. All fees col-
lected shall be expended as appropriated by the Legislature
in the carrying out of the provisions of this chapter and the
regulations adopted thereto.
    The annual license fee for a pet food canner also licensed
under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 28360) of this
division is one hundred dollars ($100). No additional fee is
payable by such a person for a license issued to him under that
chapter.
    27012. An annual license or registration certificate shall be
issued only when the following provisions have been met:
    (a) Inspection of the manufacturing facilities demonstrates
that they are properly equipped and are operated in a sanitary
manner.
    (b) I n the case of an out-of-state manufacturer, the applica-
tion for a registration certificate is accompanied by a certifi-
cate issued by a federal, state, or local health agency certify-
ing that the processed pet foods manufactured conform to the
requirements of this chapter or the regulations adopted here-
under.
    (c) The applicant submits to the department the label which
would be attached to the container of each type of processed
pet food and a complete list of the pet food ingredients thereof
in their order of predominance by weight.

           Article 3. Prohibited Acts and Penalties
   27020. The following acts and the causing thereof within
the State of California are hereby prohibited:
   (a) The manufacture, sale, or delivery, holding or offering
for sale of any pet food ingredient or processed pet food that
is adulterated or misbranded.
   (b) The adulteration or misbranding of any pet food in-
gredient or processed pet food.
   (c) The dissemination of any false advertising.
   (d) The refusal to permit entry or inspection, or to permit
the taking of a sample.
   (e) The removal, sale, or disposal of a detained or em-
bargoed processed pet food without permission of an authorized
agent or the court.
   (f) The giving of a guaranty or undertaking which is false,
except by a person who relied on a guaranty or undertaking
to the same effect signed by, and containing the name and ad-
dress of, the person residing in the State of California from
whom he received in good faith the pet food ingredient or the
processed pet food.
   (g) The receipt in commerce of any pet food ingredient or
processed pet food that is adulterated, misbranded or falsely
advertised and the delivery or proffered delivery thereof for
pay or otherwise.
                     1969
Ch. 1241]                   REGULAR SESSION                    £429

    (h) Failure to obtain a license as required by this chapter.
   (i) Use of any pet food ingredient which fails to conform
to the standard of identity for such pet food ingredient as
adopted pursuant to Section 27040.
   27021. (a) Any person who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter or the rules and regulations promulgated under
this chapter is subject to imprisonment for not more than six
months or a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500),
or both such imprisonment and fine; but if the violation is
committed after a conviction of such person under this section
has become final, or the violation is committed with intent to
defraud or mislead, the person shall be subject to imprison-
ment for not more than one year, or a fine of not more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000), or both such imprisonment and
fine.
   (b) No person shall be subject to the penalties of subdi-
vision (a) for having violated provisions of this chapter if he
establishes a guaranty or undertaking signed by, and contain-
ing the name and address of, the person residing in the State
of California from whom he received in good faith the article,
to the effect that such article conforms to all provisions of this
chapter, designating this chapter.
   If the guaranty is to the effect that such article is not in vio-
lation within the meaning of the federal act, as provided in
Section 303(c) of the federal act, it shall be sufficient for all
the purposes of this chapter and have the same force and effect
as though it referred to this chapter, unless at any time the
standard for the article concerned under this chapter is higher
than the standard for a like article under the federal act.
   (c) No publisher, radio or television broadcast licensee, or
agency or medium for the dissemination of an advertisement,
except the manufacturer, packer, distributor, or seller of the
article to which a false advertisement relates, shall be liable
under this section for the dissemination of such false adver-
tisement, unless he has refused, on the request of the depart-
ment, to furnish the department the name and post office
address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor, seller, or
 advertising agency, residing in the State of California who
caused him to disseminate such advertisement.
   27022. In addition to other remedies herein provided, the
department may bring an action in the superior court, and
such court shall have jurisdiction upon hearing and for cause
shown, to grant a temporary or permanent injunction restrain-
ing any person from violating any provision of this chapter.
Any proceeding under the provisions of this section shall con-
form to the requirements of Chapter 3 (commencing with
Section 525) of Title 7 of P a r t 2 of the Code of Civil Proce-
dure, except that the department shall not be required to allege
facts necessary to show or tending to show lack of adequate
remedy at law or to show or tending to show irreparable dam-
age or loss.
2430               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [(]}, J 2 4 1

                    Article 4.   Adulteration
   27030. A pet food ingredient or a processed pet food shall
be deemed to be adulterated:
   (a) If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious sub-
stance which may render it injurious to health; but in case the
substance is not an added substance, such pet food shall not
be considered adulterated under this subdivision if the quan-
tity of such substance in such pet food does not ordinarily
render it injurious to health.
   (b) If it bears or contains any added poisonous or deleteri-
ous substance, any food additive, any pesticide chemical, or any
color additive which is unsafe within the meaning of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or Chapter 3 (commencing
with Section 26450) of this division, or Division 7 (commenc-
ing with Section 12501) of the Agricultural Code.
   (c) If it contains a pet food ingredient for which a stand-
ard of identity has been established and such pet food ingredi-
ent fails to meet that standard.
   (d) If it has been produced, prepared, packed or held
under insanitary conditions whereby it may have become con-
taminated with filth, or whereby it may have been rendered
diseased, unwholesome or injurious to health.
    (e) If its container is composed, in whole or in part, of any
poisonous or deleterious substance which may render the con-
tents injurious to health.
   (f) If any valuable constituent has been in whole or in part
omitted or abstracted therefrom.
   (g) If any substance has been substituted wholly or in part
therefor.
   (h) If damage or inferiority has been concealed in any
manner.
   (i) If any substance has been added thereto or mixed or
packed therewith so as to increase its bulk or weight or reduce
its quality or strength or make it appear better or of greater
value than it is.
                     Article 5. Misbranding
   27031. A pet food ingredient or processed pet food shall
be deemed to be misbranded:
   (a) If its labeling is false or misleading in any particular.
   (b) If its container is so made, formed or filled as to be mis-
leading.
   (c) If in package form, unless it bears a label containing
 (1) the name and place of business of the manufacturer,
packer, or distributor; and (2) an accurate statement of the
quantity of the contents in terms of weight, measure or numeri-
cal count.
   Under clause (2) of subdivision (c), reasonable variation
shall be permitted, and exemptions as to small packages shall
be established, by regulations prescribed by the department.
                     1969
C h . 12411                 REGULAR SESSION                   2431

   (d) If any word, statement or other information required
by or under authority of this chapter to appear on the label
or labeling is not prominently placed thereon with such con-
spieuousness (as compared with other words, statements, de-
signs or emblems, in the labeling) and in such terms as to
render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary
individual under customary conditions of purchase and use.
   27032. A pet food shall be deemed to be misbranded if it
is not subject to Section 27033, unless its label bears (a) the
common or usual name of the food, if any there be, and (b) in
case it is fabricated from two or more ingredients, the common
or usual name of each such ingredient listed in descending
order of predominance in the product. Spices, flavorings, and
colorings, other than those sold as such, may be designated as
spices, flavorings, and colorings, without naming each.
   27033. A processed pet food shall be deemed to be mis-
branded if it purports to be or is represented as a food for
which a definition and standard of identity has been prescribed
by regulations as provided by Section 27040 unless (a) it con-
forms to such definition and standard, and (b) its label bears
the name of the processed pet food specified in the definition
and standard, and, insofar as may be required by such regula-
tions, the common names of optional pet food ingredients pres-
ent in such processed pet food. Spices, flavorings, and color-
ings, other than those sold as such, may be designated as spices,
flavorings, and colorings, without naming each.
   27034. A processed pet food shall be deemed to be mis-
branded :
   (a) If it purports to be or is represented for special dietary
uses, unless its label bears such information concerning its
vitamin, mineral, and other dietary properties as the depart-
ment determines to be, and by regulations prescribes as, neces-
sary in order fully to inform purchasers as to its value for
such uses.
   (b) If it bears or contains any artificial flavoring, artificial
coloring, or chemical preservative, unless it bears labeling stat-
ing that fact. To the extent that compliance with the require-
ments of this paragraph is impracticable, exemptions shall be
established by regulations promulgated by the department.

                  Article 6.    Administration
   27040. When in the judgment of the department such ac-
tion will promote honesty and fair dealing in the interest of
the ultimate purchaser, the department may promulgate regu-
lations establishing for any processed pet food or pet food
ingredient any of the following:
   (a) A reasonable definition and standard of identity.
   (b) A reasonable standard of quality or fill of container.
   (c) The method of treatment of such products or ingredients
to render them safe for pet feeding.

    77—1954
2432                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Q^ J242

   (d) Labeling information necessary to fully inform the pur-
chaser thereof.
   27041. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered
by the State Department of Public Health in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 26450)
of this division, and the department shall have all the powers
granted to the board in that chapter.
   SEC. 2. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund to the State Department of Public Health for expendi-
ture in carrying out the purposes of the act, the sum of nine-
teen thousand four hundred sixty-six dollars ($19,466) in
augmentation of the appropriation made by Item 161 of the
Budget Act of 1969.

                         CHAPTER 1242
     An act to amend Sections 4155 and 9261 of the Vehicle
              Code, relating to identification plates.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 4155 of the Vehicle Code is amended
 to read:
    4155. Eegistration under this code shall apply to any
 vehicle owned by the United States government, the state,
 or any city, county, or political subdivision of the state, except
 in the following particulars:
    (a) A license plate issued for a vehicle while publicly
 owned need not display the year number for which it is is-
 sued, but shall display a distinguishing symbol or letter.
    (b) The registration of the vehicle and the registration
card issued therefor shall not be renewed annually but shall
remain valid until the certificate of ownership is suspended,
revoked, or canceled by the department or upon a transfer
of any interest shown in the certificate of ownership. If own-
ership of the vehicle is transferred to any person, the vehicle
shall be reregistered as a privately owned vehicle and the
special license plates shall be surrendered to the department.
    (c) An identification plate used for special construction,
cemetery, or special mobile equipment need not display a dis-
tinguishing symbol or letter.
   SEC. 2. Section 9261 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   9261. A service fee of five dollars ($5) shall be paid for an
identification plate for special construction, cemetery or mobile
equipment. Publicly owned special construction equipment,
cemetery equipment, and special mobile equipment are exempt
from the service charge.
                      196s
Ch. 1243]                    REGULAR SESSION                    2433

   SEC. 3. Section 9261 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   9261. A service fee of five dollars ($5) shall be paid for
an identification plate for special construction equipment,
cemetery equipment, mobile equipment or a snowmobile. Pub-
licly owned special construction equipment, cemetery equip-
ment, special mobile equipment, and snowmobiles are exempt
from the service charge.
   SEC. 4. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 9261 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this bill
and AB 1407 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 9261 in the form set forth
in Section 3 of this act. Therefore, in the event AB 1407 is
enacted and amends Section 9261, Section 3 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 9261 as
amended by AB 1407 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 9261 of the Vehicle Code as amended by Section 2 of
this act is repealed.

                          CHAPTER 1243
    An act to amend Sections 985 and 986 of the Insurance
             Code, relating to disability insurance.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows :

   SECTION 1. Section 985 of the Insurance Code is amended
to read:
   985. (a) On or after January 1, 1970, as used in this
article and in subdivision (i) of Section 1011, "insolvency"
means any impairment of minimum "paid-in capital" or " c a p -
ital paid i n , " as defined in Section 36, required in the aggre-
gate of an insurer by the provisions of this code for the class,
or classes, of insurance which it transacts anywhere.
    (b) On or after January 1, 1970, an insurer cannot escape
the condition of insolvency by being able to provide for all its
liabilities and for reinsurance of all outstanding risks. An in-
surer must also be possessed of additional assets equivalent to
such aggregate "paid-in capital" or "capital paid i n " re-
quired by this code after making provision for all such liabili-
ties and for such reinsurance.
    (c) On or after October 1, 1967, as used in this code provi-
sion for reinsurance of all outstanding risks and "gross pre-
miums without any deduction, received and receivable upon all
 unexpired risks" means the greater of: (1) the aggregate
 amount of actual unearned premiums, or (2) the amount rea-
sonably estimated as being required to reinsure in a solvent ad-
 mitted insurer the unexpired terms of the risks represented by
 all outstanding policies.
2434               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQ}1_ 1 2 4 3

    (d) On or after October 1, 1967, an insurer must make pro-
 vision for reinsurance of the outstanding risk on policies
 which provide premiums are fully earned at inception and on
 policies which for any other reason do not provide for a re-
 turn premium to the insured on cancellation prior to expira-
 tion.
     (e) On or after October 1, 1967, the commissioner shall
 prescribe standards for reasonably estimating the amount re-
 quired to reinsure which will provide adequate safeguards for
 the policyholders, creditors and the public.
     (f) On or after October 1, 1967, this section shall not be ap-
 plicable to life, title, mortgage or mortgage guaranty insurers.
    (g) In the application of this section to disability insurance,
 as defined in Section 106, reserves for unearned premiums and
 amounts reasonably estimated as required to reinsure outstand-
 ing risks shall be determined in accordance with the provisions
 of Section 997.
    SEC. 2. Section 986 of the Insurance Code is amended to
read:
    986. A life insurer issuing policies on a reserve basis is
 insolvent whenever its assets are exceeded by the amount neces-
 sary to provide for its liabilities and for reinsurance of all its
 outstanding risks at the following rates:
    (a) In the case of contracts issued in a foreign country,
upon the lives of residents thereof, by a domestic insurer
 authorized to and doing business in that foreign country, the
rates shall be in accordance with the standard of mortality
 approved by the commissioner, as provided by law.
    (b) In the case of group insurance, at the rates required
by law for valuation thereof.
    (c) In the case of all other outstanding risks written prior
to January 1, 1892, at the rates based upon the American
Experience Table of Mortality with interest at the rate of 4 |
percent per annum.
    (d) In the case of all its other outstanding risks written
from and after December 31, 1891, up to and including Decem-
ber 31, 1907, at rates based upon the Combined Experience
or Actuaries' Table of Mortality with interest at the rate of
4 percent per annum.
    (e) In the case of all its other outstanding risks written
from and after December 31, 1907, and prior to the opera-
tive date as to such risks of Article 3a (commencing with Sec-
tion 10489.1), Chapter 1, Part 2, Division 2, at rates based
upon the American Experience Table of Mortality with inter-
est at the rate of 3 | percent per annum, and, where applicable,
in accordance with Section 10486.9.
    (f) In the ease of contracts of disability insurance, as de-
fined in Section 106, according to the standards provided in
Section 997.
    (g) I n the case of all other risks, according to the standards
provided in Article 3a (commencing with Section 10489.1),
Chapter 5, Part 2, Division 2.
                       1969
Ch. 12451                     REGULAR SESSION                   2435

                          CHAPTER 1244
An act relating to the Imperial Valley Warmwater   Hatchery,
  and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immedi-
  ately.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Notwithstanding any provision of Section 2.5
of the Budget Act of 1969 (Chapter 355, Statutes of 1969) to
the contrary, the project for the construction of the Imperial
Valley Warmwater Hatchery shall be included in Priority I,
as contained in Section 2.5 of said act, and shall be financed
pursuant to the appropriation made therefor by Item 421 of
said act.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such neces-
sity are:
   The project for the construction of the Imperial Valley
Warmwater Hatchery is urgently needed. The project has
been commenced and funds have been appropriated to finance
it pursuant to Item 421 of the Budget Act of 1969 (Chapter
355, Statutes of 1969). However, the project was omitted from
the priority list placed in Section 2.5 of the Budget Act. In
order to continue the project, it is essential that this act take
immediate effect.

                          CHAPTER 1245
An act authorizing the Department of Public Works to advance
       funds for the Sweetwater Flood Control Project.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Department of Public Works and the
County of San Diego are authorized to enter into a joint
powers agreement relative to the joint acquisition of rights-
of-way for State Highway Route 54 and the Sweetwater Flood
Control Project. The agreement may provide, among other
things, for the advancements of funds by the department to
the county for the county's portion of such rights-of-way,
provided that funds for such advancements shall be paid from
money in the State Highway F u n d derived from the motor
vehicle transportation license tax imposed pursuant to P a r t 4
 (commencing with Section 9601) of Division 2 of the Revenue
2436                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1246

and Taxation Code. Any such agreement shall provide for the
payment of interest on the funds advanced by the department
to the county. Any such advancements shall be deemed ac-
counts receivable and shall be repaid to the department by
the county by June 30,1975.


                          CHAPTER 1246
       An act to amend Section 13510 of the Education Code,
                   relating to employee salaries.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 13510 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  13510. The governing board of a school district may dur-
ing any school year increase the annual salaries of persons
employed by the district in positions requiring certification
qualifications at any time.

                          CHAPTER 1247
An act to amend Sections 31558.1 and 31567 of the Govern-
          ment Code, relating to county retirement.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31558.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   31558.1. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section
31558 to the contrary, each person over 35 years of age who,
prior to January 1, 1965, was employed in a position, the prin-
cipal duties of which consist of active law enforcement as de-
fined in Section 31469.3 or active fire suppression as defined in
Section 31470.4, who has continuously since his employment
made the salary contributions required of a safety member,
and who has continuously since his employment been employed
in a position which would make such person eligible to become
a safety member if he had not been over the age of 35 years at
the time of his employment, shall become a safety member as of
the first day of the calendar month following his original en-
trance into the service regardless of age.
   A member who meets the requirements of the preceding
paragraph of this section except that he has not made the
contributions required of a safety member, may receive credit
for such service, as a safety member, when he has contributed,
                       1969
Ch. 12481                     REGULAR SESSION                   2437

with interest to the date paid, the difference between contribu-
tions made and those which would have been required if he
had been a safety member. Such additional contributions are
to be made prior to retirement and notice of election to receive
credit for service, as a safety member, pursuant to this section,
shall be made to the retirement board prior to April 1, 1970.
This section shall be operative only until April 1, 1970, and
thereafter shall have no force and effect.
   SEC. 2. Section 31567 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   31567. Any member of a retirement system established
under this chapter who is employed in a position, the princi-
pal duties of which consist of active law enforcement or active
fire suppression as defined under Sections 31469.3, 31470.2
and 31470.4, and who, prior to 1955, had the right to
elect to become a safety member of such system shall again
have the right to elect to become a safety member. Notice of
such election shall be given in writing to the board of retire-
ment administering the system.
   The member's status as a safety member shall be effective
on the first day of the second month following that in which
the notice of election is received by the board of retirement.
   Such a member may elect to receive credit for service ren-
dered as a member of such system, as if he had been a safety
member commencing in 1955. Notice of such election shall
be given in writing to the board of retirement no less than 30
days prior to the member's retirement. The member shall re-
ceive credit for such service, as a safety member, if he con-
tributes the difference between the member contributions
actually made for that period of service and the contributions
that he would have been required to make if he had been a
safety member during that period. The member shall also
contribute interest on the difference at the rates at which
interest was credited on member contributions for each year
of the period for which credit is sought.
   An election under this section shall be irrevocable, and the
additional contribution payments hereunder required, if not
completed as specified, shall be forfeited to the retirement
fund, and a forfeiting member shall then receive only general
membership benefits. Additional contributions shall be made
by lump sum payment or in such monthly payroll deduction
amounts as determined by the board, but must be made prior
to the member's retirement.


                          CHAPTEB 1248
      An act to amend Section 1803 of the Vehicle Code,
         relating to conviction for vehicle violations.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2438               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1249

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1803 of the Vehicle Code is amended
to read:
   1803. (a) Every clerk of a court, or judge if there be no
clerk, in which a person was convicted for any violation of
this code, and of any narcotic offense under Division 10 (com-
mencing with Section 11000) of the Health and Safety Code,
and of any violation of any other statute relating to the safe
operation of vehicles, shall prepare within 10 days after con-
viction and immediately forward to the department at its
office at Sacramento an abstract of the record of the court
covering the case in which the person was so convicted which
abstract must be certified by the person so required to prepare
the same to be true and correct.
   For the purposes of this section, a forfeiture of bail shall
be equivalent to a conviction.
    (b) The following violations are not required to be reported
under subdivision (a) of this section:
    (1) Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 22500) of Divi-
sion 11.
   (2) Division 12 (commencing with Section 24000), except
Sections 24002, 24004, 24250, 24409, 24604, 24800, 25103, Chap-
ter 3 (commencing with Section 26301), 26707, 27800, and
27801.
    (3) Division 15 (commencing with Section 35000), except
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 35550).
   (4) Violations for which a person was cited as a pedestrian
or while operating a bicycle.
   (c) If the court impounds a license or orders a person to
limit his driving pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 40508,
the court shall notify the department concerning the impound-
ment or limitation on an abstract prepared pursuant to sub-
division (a) of this section or on a separate abstract, which
shall be prepared within 10 days after the impoundment or
limitation was ordered and immediately forwarded to the de-
partment at its office in Sacramento.


                        CHAPTER 1249
An act to amend Sections 76.1, 77.3, 78.3, and 78.6 of the
  Harbors and Navigation Code, to amend Sections 101 and
  205 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to
  harbors and watercraft.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 76.1 of the Harbors and Navigation
Code is amended to read:
                       1969
Ch. 1249]                     REGULAR SESSION                     2439

   76.1. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following
 definitions shall govern the construction of this article:
    (a) " B r o k e r " refers to a person who, as a whole or partial
 vocation, sells or offers for sale, buys or offers to buy, lists,
solicits prospective purchasers of, negotiates the purchase or
sale or exchange of, charters, offers to charter, negotiates the
charter of, leases, rents, places for lease or rent, or negotiates
loans on, yachts or ships.
   A person shall be deemed to be a broker, within the mean-
ing of this section, if, he does any of the acts or participates
in any of the transactions herein defined, even though at some
subsequent time he may obtain title to, or procure in his own
name the certification or registration of, the yacht or ship in
question.
   (b) " D e p a r t m e n t " refers to the Department of Harbors
and Watercraft.
   (c) " D i r e c t o r " refers to the Director of Harbors and
Watercraft.
   (d) " P e r s o n " includes individual, copartnership, associa-
tion, and corporation.
   (e) "Salesman" refers to an individual who, as a whole or
partial vocation, for compensation, is employed by a licensed
broker to do any or all things that the broker may do under
this article.
    (f) " Y a c h t " and " s h i p " refer to any vessel for navigating
in water which is self-propelled or is propelled by sail, oars,
paddle, or other mechanical means.
   SEC. 2. Section 77.3 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
is amended to read:
   77.3. (a) Every applicant for a broker's license or renewal
thereof shall deposit with the department a good and suffi-
cient surety bond issued by a company authorized to do busi-
ness in this state in the amount of five thousand dollars
 ($5,000) and in such form and on such conditions as the de-
partment may require for the protection of persons with whom
such applicant may deal as a licensee, or in lieu thereof, bonds
of the United States government of a cash value of five thou-
sand dollars ($5,000).
   (b) Any person claiming to be injured by the fraud, deceit,
or willful negligence of any broker, or by the failure of any
broker to comply with the provisions of this article, may bring
an action upon the bond deposited with the department against
both the principal and the surety in any court of competent
jurisdiction to recover the damage caused by such fraud, deceit,
willful negligence, or failure to comply with the provisions
of this article. In the event that a broker fails to pay any sum
owed to any creditors arising out of any transaction in which
such broker acted in his capacity as a broker, the department
shall call and hold a hearing, as near as may be pursuant to
the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500)
of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to
2440               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r(Jfo 1249

 determine the names and addresses of all such creditors, to-
 gether with the amounts due and owing to them and each of
 them. The publication of one notice of the hearing in a maga-
 zine or newspaper of general circulation devoted to the yacht
 and ship business shall constitute sufficient notice of the hear-
 ing. Each creditor claiming that a sum is owed to him shall
 file with the department at the hearing a verified statement of
 his claim. Upon ascertaining all claims and statements in the
 manner herein set forth, the department may then make de-
 mand upon the bond on behalf of those claimants whose state-
 ments have been filed, and shall have the power to settle or
 compromise such claims with the surety company on the bond,
 and is empowered in such cases to execute and deliver a re-
 lease and discharge of the bond involved. Upon the refusal
 of the surety company to pay the demand, the department
 shall thereupon bring an action on the bond in behalf of such
 creditors. Upon any action being commenced on such bond the
 department may require the filing of a new bond and imme-
 diately upon the recovery in any action on such bond such
 broker shall file a new bond and upon failure to file the same
 within 10 days in either case, such failure shall constitute
 grounds for the suspension or revocation of his license.
     (c) Upon the filing of notice with the department by any
 surety of its withdrawal as surety for any licensee pursuant
 to Section 2851 of the Civil Code, the department shall forth-
 with give notice to the licensee of the withdrawal which notice
 shall be by registered mail with request for return receipt and
 shall be addressed to the licensee at his principal office as
 shown by the records of the department. The license of any
 licensee shall be suspended and shall be returned to the depart-
ment upon the termination of the bond of the surety as pro-
vided in Section 2851 of the Civil Code, unless, prior to the
termination, a new bond has been filed with the department.
    SEC. 3. Section 78.3 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
is amended to read:
    78.3. (a) During the month of December of each year,
each person licensed under this article shall file with the de-
partment an application for renewal of his license and shall
pay to the department the renewal fee required by this article,
whereupon the department shall renew his license. Every li-
cense not renewed in accordance with this subdivision shall
expire on January 1st of the year following the year for which
it was issued or renewed and shall forthwith be returned to the
department. Such license may thereafter be reinstated only
upon the filing of an application therefor and in the payment
of the renewal fee required by this article for the year in
which reinstatement is sought, together with a penalty fee
equal to 75 percent of the renewal fee. No examination shall
be required for the reinstatement of a license which has ex-
pired solely for nonpayment of the renewal fee as required
by this subdivision.
                     1969
Ch. 12491                   REGULAR SESSION                  2441

    (b) An application for reinstatement of a license which has
expired pursuant to subdivision (a) shall be on the form pro-
vided by the department and shall be affirmed or sworn to
before a notary public or other person authorized by law to
administer oaths and affirmations or shall be executed under
penalty of perjury. The department may refuse to grant re-
instatement if the applicant, after the expiration of his license,
has performed any act or participated in any transaction for
which a license is required by this article or during such
period has committed any offense or performed any act which
would be cause for the suspension or revocation of a license
under this article.
    (c) All fees charged and collected under this article shall
be paid by the department at least once a month, accompanied
by a detailed statement into the State Treasury to the credit
of the Harbors and Watercraft Eevolving Fund.
    All fees charged and collected under this article and paid
into the State Treasury are appropriated to carry out the
provisions of this article and shall be paid in the manner
provided by law.
    The department may establish a revolving fund in such an
amount as it may determine, subject to the approval of the
director.
    SEC. 4. Section 78.6 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
is amended to read:
    78.6. (a) The amount of fees prescribed by this article is
that fixed by the following schedule:
    (x) J.' or every original v>xoker s license tue j.ee is one uun-
dred dollars ($100), but the department may reduce the fee
to not less than fifty dollars ($50).
    (2) For the annual renewal of an original broker's license,
regardless of class, the fee is fifty dollars ($50), but the
department may reduce the fee to not less than twenty-five
dollars ($25).
    (3) For every original salesman's license the fee is twenty-
five dollars ($25) but the department may reduce the fee to
not less than ten dollars ($10).
    (4) For the annual renewal of an original salesman's li-
cense, regardless of class, the fee is twenty-five dollars ($25),
but the department may reduce the fee to not less than ten
dollars ($10).
     (b) The department shall charge and collect the following
 fees:
     (1) Five dollars ($5) for a salesman's temporary license.
     (2) Ten dollars ($10) for every license obtained by a broker
 for a branch office and for every renewal thereof.
     (3) Five dollars ($5) for changing the name or address of
 a broker on the records of the department.
     (4) Five dollars ($5) for every transfer of a salesman's
 license for every change of employment.
2442                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 TQJj ^ 2 4 9

     (5) Five dollars ($5) for a duplicate license.
     (6) Ten dollars ($10) for the substitution of a name in the
 license of a corporation or copartnership.
     (7) Ten dollars ($10) for the granting of a certificate of
 convenience under Section 79.
     (8) Fifteen dollars ($15) for an examination.
    SEC. 5. Section 101 of the Business and Professions Code
 is amended to read:
    101. The department is comprised of:
     (a) The Board of Dental Examiners of California.
     (b) The Board of Medical Examiners of the State of Cali-
 fornia.
     (c) The State Board of Optometry.
     (d) The California State Board of Pharmacy.
     (e) The Board of Examiners in Veterinary Medicine.
     (f) The State Board of Accountancy.
     (g) The California State Board of Architectural Examiners,
     (h) The State Board of Barber Examiners.
     (i) The State Board of Begistration for Civil and Profes-
 sional Engineers.
     (j) The Contractors' State License Board.
     (k) The State Board of Cosmetology.
    (J) The State Board of Funeral Directors and Embalmers.
     (m) The Structural Pest Control Board.
     (n) The Bureau of Furniture and Bedding Inspection.
    (o) The California Board of Nursing Education and Nurse
Begistration.
    (p) The State Board of Dry Cleaners.
     (q) The Board of Chiropractic Examiners.
    (r) The Board of Social Work Examiners of the State of
 California.
    (s) The State Athletic Commission.
    (t) The Cemetery Board.
    (u) The State Board of Guide Dogs for the Blind.
    (v) The Bureau of Private Investigators and Adjusters.
    (w) The Certified Shorthand Reporters Board.
    (x) The Board of Vocational Nurse and Psychiatric Techni-
cian Examiners of the State of California.
    (y) The California State Board of Landscape Architects.
    (z) The Collection Agency Licensing Bureau.
    (aa) The Bureau of Electronic Repair Dealer Registration.
    (ab) The Bureau of Employment Agencies.
    (ac) The Board of Osteopathic Examiners.
    (ad) Any other boards, offices, or officers subject to its juris-
diction by law.
    SEC. 6. Section 205 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   205. There is in the State Treasury the Professions and
Vocations Fund. The fund shall consist of the following special
funds:
                   1969
Ch. 1249]                 REGULAR SESSION                2443

   Accountancy Fund.
   California State Board of Architectural Examiners' Fund.
   Athletic Commission Fund.
   State Board of Barber Examiners' Fund.
   Cemetery Fund.
   Contractors' License Fund.
   Board of Cosmetology's Contingent Fund.
   State Dentistry Fund.
   Dry Cleaners' Fund.
   State Funeral Directors and Embalmers' Fund.
   Bureau of Furniture and Bedding Inspection Fund.
   State Board of Landscape Architects' Fund.
   Contingent Fund of the Board of Medical Examiners.
   Board of Nurse Examiners' Fund.
   State Optometry Fund.
   Pharmacy Board Contingent Fund.
   Physical Therapy Fund.
   Private Investigator and Adjuster Fund.
   Professional Engineers' Fund.
   Professional and Vocational Standards' Fund.
   Begistered Social Workers' Fund.
   Shorthand Reporters' Fund.
   Structural Pest Control Fund.
   Board of Veterinary Examiners' Contingent Fund.
   Vocational Nurse Examiners' Fund.
   For accounting and recordkeeping purposes, the Profes-
sions and Vocations Fund shall be deemed to be a single
special fund, and each of the several special funds therein
shall constitute and be deemed to be a separate account in the
Professions and Vocations Fund. Each such account or fund
shall be available for expenditure only for such purposes as
are now or may hereafter be provided by law.
   SEC. 7. On the operative date of Sections 1 and 3 of this
act, the assets, liabilities and surplus of the Yacht and Ship
Brokers Fund shall be transferred to and become a part of
the Harbors and Watereraft Revolving Fund. All existing
appropriations to the extent encumbered and also those which
had been made for particular projects from the Yacht and Ship
Brokers Fund shall continue to be available for the same pur-
poses and periods from the Harbors and Watereraft Bevolving
Fund. The assets of the Yacht and Ship Brokers F u n d are
appropriated to carry out the provisions of Article 5 (com-
mencing with Section 76) of Chapter 2, Division 1 of the Har-
bors and Navigation Code in the same manner as before this
fund was abolished.
2444              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      [Qfo J 2 5 0

                        CHAPTER 1250
An act to amend Section 1528.5 of the        Unemployment
  Insurance Code, relating to unemployment insurance, and
  making an appropriation therefor.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1528.5 of the Unemployment Insurance
Code is amended to read:
   1528.5. (a) Money credited to the account of this state in
the Unemployment Trust F u n d by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury of the United States of America pursuant to Section 903 of
the Social Security Act, as amended, may not be requisitioned
from this state's account or used except for the payment of
benefits and for the payment of expenses incurred for the
administration of this part. Such money may be requisitioned
pursuant to Section 1529 for the payment of benefits. Such
money may also be requisitioned and used for the payment of
expenses incurred for the administration of this part but only
pursuant to a specific appropriation by the Legislature and
only if the expenses are incurred and the money is requisi-
tioned after the enactment of an appropriation law which:
    (1) Specifies the purposes for which such money is appro-
priated and the amounts appropriated therefor.
   (2) Limits the period within which such money may be
obligated to a period ending not more than two years after the
date of the enactment of the appropriation law.
   (3) Limits the amount which may be obligated during a
fiscal year to an amount which does not exceed the amount by
which (i) the aggregate of the amounts credited to the account
of this state pursuant to Section 903 of the Social Security Act,
as amended, during the same fiscal year and the 14 pre-
ceding fiscal years, exceeds (ii) the aggregate of the amounts
obligated for administration and paid out for benefits and
charged against the amounts credited to the account of this
state during such 15 fiscal years.
   (b) Amounts credited to this state's account in the Unem-
ployment Trust F u n d under Section 903 of the Social Security
Act which are obligated for administration or paid out for
benefits shall be charged against equivalent amounts which
were first credited and which are not already so charged, ex-
cept that no amount obligated for administration during a
fiscal year specified herein may be charged against any amount
credited during such a fiscal year earlier than the 14th pre-
ceding such fiscal year.
   (c) Money appropriated pursuant to this section for the
payment of expenses of administration shall be requisitioned as
needed for the payment of obligations incurred under such
                       1969 R E G T J L A R
Ch. 12511                                     SESSION           2445

appropriation and, upon requisition, shall be deposited in the
Unemployment Administration Fund, but, until expended,
shall remain a part of the Unemployment Fund. The director
and the Controller shall maintain a separate record of the
deposit, obligation, expenditure, and return of funds so de-
posited. Any money so deposited which either will not be obli-
gated within the period specified by the appropriation law or
remains unobligated at the end of the period, and any money
which has been obligated within the period but will not be
expended shall be returned promptly to the account of this
state in the Unemployment Trust Fund.
   SEC. 2. There is hereby appropriated the sum of thirty-
five thousand nine hundred thirty-one dollars ($35,931) for
the payment of expenses incurred by the Department of Fi-
nance in examining the books of the Department of Employ-
ment, pursuant to Section 13294 of the Government Code, pay-
able from moneys credited to this state's account in the
Unemployment Trust Fund and made available to this state
under Section 903 of the Social Security Act, as amended, pro-
vided t h a t :
   (a) Such money is requisitioned from the Unemployment
Trust Fund pursuant to Section 1528.5 of the Unemployment
Insurance Code.
   (b) The period within which such money may be obligated
is specifically limited to the period beginning on the 61st day
after the final adjournment of the 1969 Regular Session of the
Legislature and ending June 30, 1970.
   (c) The total amount obligated pursuant to this act during
the 1969-70 fiscal year shall not exceed the amount by which
(1) the aggregate of the amounts credited to the account of
this state pursuant to Section 903 of the Social Security Act
during such fiscal year and the 14 preceding fiscal years, ex-
ceeds (2) the aggregate of the amounts obligated for adminis-
tration and paid out for benefits and charged against the
amounts credited to the account of this state during such 15
fiscal years.

                           CHAPTER 1251
An act to add Section 226.10 to the Civil Code, and to add
   Section 280 to the Penal Code, relating to adoption.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 226.10 is added to the Civil Code, to
read:
  226.10. During the pendency of an adoption proceeding, the
child proposed to be adopted shall not be concealed within the
county in which the adoption is pending; and shall not be
 2446              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQ^ ^ 2 5 1

 removed from such county, unless the petitioners or other
 interested persons first obtain permission for such removal
 from the court after giving advance written notice of intent
 to obtain such permission to the State Department of Social
 Welfare or to the licensed adoption agency responsible for the
investigation of the proposed adoption. Upon proof of the
 giving of the notice, permission may be granted by the court
 if, within a period of 15 days from and after the date of the
giving of the notice, no objections have been filed with the
court by the State Department of Social Welfare or the li-
censed adoption agency responsible for investigation of the
proposed adoption. If objections are filed within such period
by the department or the adoption agency, upon* the request
of the petitioners the court shall immediately set the matter
for hearing and give to the objector, the petitioners, and the
party or parties requesting permission for such removal rea-
sonable notice of such hearing by certified mail to the address
of each as shown in the records of the adoption proceeding.
Upon a finding that the objections are without good cause, the
court may grant the requested permission for removal of the
child, subject to such limitations as appear to be in the best
interests of the child.
    This section does not apply in any of the following situa-
 tions :
     (a) Where the child is absent for a period of not more than
 30 days from the county in which the adoption proceeding is
 pending, provided that a notice of recommendation of denial
 of petition has not been personally served on the petitioners
 or the court has not issued an order prohibiting the removal
 of the child from the county pending consideration of any of
 the following:
     (1) The suitability of the petitioners.
    (2) The care provided the child.
    (3) The availability of the legally required consents to the
 adoption.
    (b) In a proceeding for the adoption of a child by his step-
parent where one natural or adoptive parent retains his or
her custody and control of the child.
    (c) Where the child has been returned to and remains in
the custody and control of his or her natural parent or parents.
    (d) Where the child has been relinquished for adoption
pursuant to Section 224m and written consent for the removal
of the child is obtained from the State Department of Social
Welfare or the licensed adoption agency responsible for the
child.
   In no event, nor for any period of time, shall a child who
has been relinquished for adoption pursuant to Section 224m
be removed from the county in which the child was placed by
any person who has not petitioned to adopt the child without
first obtaining the written consent of the State Department
                       1969
Ch. 12531                     REGULAR SESSION                   2447

of Social Welfare or the licensed adoption agency responsible
for the child.
   A violation of this section constitutes a violation of Section
280 of the Penal Code.
   Neither this section nor Section 280 of the Penal Code shall
be construed to render lawful any act which is unlawful under
any other applicable provision of law.
   SEC. 2. Section 280 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
   280. Every person who willfully causes or permits the re-
moval or concealment of any child in violation of Section
226.10 of the Civil Code is punishable as follows:
   (a) By imprisonment in the county jail for not more than
one year ii the child is concealed within the county in which
the adoption proceeding is pending or in which the child has
been placed for adoption, or is removed from such county to a
place within this state; or
   (b) By imprisonment in the state prison for not less than
one year nor more than five years, or by imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than one year if the child is removed
from such county to a place outside of this state.


                          C H A P T E R 1252
An act to add Section 996.982 to the Military and Veterans
      Code, relating to the Veterans Bond Act of 1968.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1.    Section 996.982 is added to the Military and
Veterans Code, to read:
   996.982. The maximum rate of interest on the bonds au-
thorized by this article shall not exceed 7 percent per annum.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative only if Assembly
Constitutional Amendment No. 87 of the 1969 Regular Session
is adopted by the people, in which event it shall become opera-
tive at the same time as Assembly Constitutional Amendment
No. 87.

                          CHAPTER 1253
An act to amend Section 39052 of, to add Sections 39110 and
  39111 to the Health and Safety Code, and to amend Section
  27156 of the Vehicle Code, relating to air pollution, declar-
  ing the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed -with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2448              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQ n < J 2 5 3

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 39052 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   39052. The board shall:
   (a) Conduct studies and evaluate the effects of air pollution
upon human, plant, and animal life and the factors responsi-
ble for air pollution. The board may call upon the Department
of Public Health, Department of Agriculture, the University
of California, and such other state agencies it may deem nec-
essary.
    (b) Encourage a cooperative state effort in combating air
pollution.
   (c) Inventory sources of air pollution within the basins of
the state and determine the kinds and quantity of air pollut-
ants. The board shall use, to the fullest extent, the data of
local agencies in fulfilling this purpose.
   (d) Monitor air pollutants in cooperation with other agen-
cies to fulfill the purpose of this division.
    (e) Coordinate and collect research data on air pollution.
    (f) Review rules and regulations of local or regional author-
ities filed with it pursuant to Sections 39314 and 39461 to
assure that reasonable provision is made to control emissions
from nonvehicular sources and to achieve the air quality stand-
ards established by the board.
    (g) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Motor Vehicles, for making timely and de-
cisive mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution matters with
which both agencies are concerned, and submit a copy of
these procedures to the Legislature by January 1, 1969.
   (h) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Public Health, for the performance of services
required by the board and for evaluating and resolving air
pollution matters with which both agencies are concerned, and
submit a copy of these procedures to the Legislature by Janu-
ary 1, 1969.
   (i) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of the California Highway Patrol, for making
timely and decisive mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution
matters with which both agencies are concerned, and submit a
copy of these procedures to the Legislature by January 1, 1969.
   (j) Publish annually a report of the results of the tests
administered pursuant to subdivision (k) of this section, which
shall include all of the following:
   (1) The total number of motor vehicles tested.
   (2) The total number of each engine and transmission com-
bination tested.
   (3) The average emissions of all motor vehicles tested.
   (4) The average emissions of each engine and transmission
combination tested.
                    1969
Ch 1253]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2449-,

   (5) An analysis of the emissions of each engine and trans-
mission combination tested.
    (k) Adopt test procedures as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days after the effective date of the amend-
ments to this section enacted by the Legislature at the 1968
Regular Session, specifying the manner in which new motor
vehicles shall be approved based upon the emission standards
contained in Article 2 (commencing with Section 39100) of
Chapter 4 of this part. The board shall base its test procedures
on driving patterns typical in the urban areas of California,
and shall weight approval standards appropriately to reflect
normal engine deposit accumulation. The board shall admin-
ister the test for new motor vehicles in accordance with such
procedures.
   (I) Adopt regulations specifying the manner in which used
motor vehicles shall be accredited based upon their emissions.
These regulations are to be submitted to the Legislature by
January 1, 1969.
   (m) Adopt regulations specifying the manner in which mo-
tor vehicles on factory assembly lines are to be emission tested.
Such tests shall take into consideration the recommendations
of the Technical Advisory Panel to the Assembly Transporta-
tion and Commerce Committee as set forth in its report of
April 14, 1968. Board regulations shall require manufacturers
to submit copies of their test procedures and the test results
to the board. These regulations are to be submitted to the
Legislature by March 31, 1969.
   (n) Adopt exhaust emission standards for hydrocarbons,
carbon monoxide, and oxides of nitrogen for new diesel-pow-
ered vehicles, and diesel engines for vehicles first sold and
registered in this state, no later than January 1, 1971.
   (o) Adopt emission standards for motor vehicles which shall
be applicable only to motor vehicles for which emission stand-
ards have not been specified in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 39100) of Chapter 4 of this part.
   (p) Adopt low emission standards for the purpose of carry-
ing out Section 14808.1 of the Government Code and Section
6377 of the Revenue and Taxation Code for each model year
motor vehicle beginning in 1970.
   (q) The board shall adopt test procedures to establish that
motor vehicles which have been modified or altered to use a
fuel other than gasoline or diesel are in compliance with Sec-
tion 39110 giving consideration to relative reactivity and air-
fuel correction factor of the fuel being tested.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 39052 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   39052. The board shall:
   (a) Conduct studies and evaluate the effects of air pollution
upon human, plant, and animal life and the factors responsi-
ble for air pollution. The board may call upon the Department
of Public Health, Department of Agriculture, the University
2450              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Qh. 1253

of California, and such other state agencies it may deem nec-
essary.
   (b) Encourage a cooperative state effort in combating air
pollution.
   (c) Inventory sources of air pollution within the basins of
the state and determine the kinds and quantity of air pollut-
ants. The board shall use, to the fullest extent, the data of
local agencies in fulfilling this purpose.
   (d) Monitor air pollutants in cooperation with other agen-
cies to fulfill the purpose of this division.
   (e) Coordinate and collect research data on air pollution.
   (f) Review rules and regulations of local or regional author-
ities filed with it pursuant to Sections 39314 and 39461 to
assure that reasonable provision is made to control emissions
from nonvehicular sources and to achieve the air quality stand-
ards established by the board.
   (g) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Motor Vehicles, for making timely and de-
cisive mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution matters with
which both agencies are concerned, and submit a copy of
these procedures to the Legislature by January 1, 1969.
   (h) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Public Health, for the performance of services
required by the board and for evaluating and resolving air
pollution matters with which both agencies are concerned, and
submit a copy of these procedures to the Legislature by Janu-
ary 1,1969.
    (i) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of the California Highway Patrol, for making
timely and decisive mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution
matters with which both agencies are concerned, and submit a
copy of these procedures to the Legislature by January 1, 1969.
    (j) Publish annually a report of the results of the tests
administered pursuant to subdivision (k) of this section, which
shall include all of the following:
    (1) The total number of motor vehicles tested.
    (2) The total number of each engine and transmission com-
bination tested.
    (3) The average emissions of all motor vehicles tested.
   (4) The average emissions of each engine and transmission
combination tested.
    (5) An analysis of the emissions of each engine and trans-
mission combination tested.
    (k) Adopt test procedures as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days after the effective date of the amend-
ments to this section enacted by the Legislature at the 1968
Eegular Session, specifying the manner in which new motor
vehicles shall be approved based upon the emission standards
contained in Article 2 (commencing with Section 39100) of
Chapter 4 of this part. The board shall base its test procedures
on driving patterns typical in the urban areas of California,
                    1969
Ch. 12531                  REGULAR SESSION                   2451

and shall weight approval standards appropriately to reflect
normal engine deposit accumulation. The board shall admin-
ister the test for new motor vehicles in accordance with such
procedures.
    (I) Adopt regulations specifying the manner in which used
motor vehicles shall be accredited based upon their emissions.
These regulations are to be submitted to the Legislature by
January 1, 1969.
    (m) Adopt, by regulation, emission standards and test pro-
cedures applicable to motor vehicles manufactured for sale in
this state. Such regulations shall provide for the testing of
vehicles on factory assembly lines or in such other manner as
the board determines best suited to carry out the purposes of
this part. The standards established by the board may deviate
from the standards established as a condition of approval as
the board determines is necessary to implement this section.
The test procedures shall be adopted after consideration of the
recommendations of the Technical Advisory Panel to the As-
sembly Transportation and Commerce Committee of April 14,
1968. Any manufacturer or distributor failing to comply with
the standards or test procedures established under this subdi-
vision shall be subject to a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50)
for each vehicle which does not comply with the regulations
and which is first sold in this state. The payment of such pen-
alties shall be a condition to the further sale of motor vehicles
in this state.
   (n) Adopt exhaust emission standards for hydrocarbons,
carbon monoxide, and oxides of nitrogen for new diesel-pow-
ered vehicles, and diesel engines for vehicles first sold and
registered in this state, no later than J a n u a r y 1, 1971.
   (o) Adopt emission standards for motor vehicles which shall
be applicable only to motor vehicles for which emission stand-
ards have not been specified in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 39100) of Chapter 4 of this part.
   (p) Adopt low emission standards for the purpose of carry-
ing out Section 14808.1 of the Government Code and Section
6377 of the Revenue and Taxation Code for each model year
motor vehicle beginning in 1970.
   (q) The board shall adopt test procedures to establish that
motor vehicles which have been modified or altered to use a
fuel other than gasoline or diesel are in compliance with Sec-
tion 39110 giving consideration to relative reactivity and air-
fuel correction factor of the fuel being tested.
   SEC. 2. Section 39110 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   39110. The standards applicable under this division for
exhaust emissions for gasoline-powered motor vehicles shall
apply to motor vehicles which have been modified or altered to
use a fuel other than gasoline or diesel.
   SEC. 3. Section 39111 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
2452               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               mj1< ^253

   39111. The provisions of subdivision (q) of Section 39052
of, and Section 39110 of, the Health and Safety Code and of
Sections 4000.1 and 27156 of the Vehicle Code shall not be
applicable to an alteration or modification to use a fuel other
than gasoline or diesel completed prior to the effective date
of this section.
   SEC. 4. Section 27156 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   27156. No person shall operate or leave standing upon any
highway any motor vehicle which is required to be equipped
with a motor vehicle pollution control device under Chapter 4
 (commencing with Section 39080) of Part 1 of Division 26 of
the Health and Safety Code or any other certified motor ve-
hicle pollution control device required by any other state law
or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to such law, or
required to be equipped with a motor vehicle pollution control
device pursuant to the National Emissions Standards Act (42
U.S.C, Sees. 1857M to 1857f-7, inclusive) and the standards
and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the motor
vehicle is equipped with the required motor vehicle pollution
control device which is correctly installed and in operating
condition. No person shall disconnect, modify, or alter any
such required device.
    "When the court finds that a person has willfully violated this
section, he shall be fined the maximum amount that may be
imposed in the ease, and no part of the fine may be suspended.
    "Willfully," as used in this section, has the same meaning
as the meaning of that word prescribed in Section 7 of the
Penal Code.
   No person shall operate a vehicle after notice by a traffic
officer that such vehicle is not equipped with the required cer-
tified motor vehicle pollution control device correctly installed
in operating condition, except as may be necessary to return
the vehicle to the residence or place of business of the owner
or driver or to a garage, until the vehicle has been properly
equipped with such a device.
    The notice to appear issued or complaint filed for a viola-
tion of this section shall require that the person to whom the
notice to appear is issued or against whom the complaint is
filed produce proof of correction pursuant to Section 40150.
    This section shall not apply to an alteration or modification
to use a fuel other than gasoline or diesel found by the Air Re-
sources Board to result in emissions from such modified or
altered vehicle which are at levels which comply with existing
state or federal standards for that model year of the vehicle
being modified or converted.
    SEC. 4.5. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amend-
ments to Section 39052 of the Health and Safety Code pro-
posed by both this bill and A.B. 1985 are enacted, that both
amendments be given effect and incorporated in Section 39052
in the form set forth in Section 1.5 of this act. Therefore, in
                       1969
Ch. 12541                     REGULAR SESSION                   2453

the event A.B. 1985 is enacted and amends Section 39052, Sec-
tion 1.5 of this act shall become operative at the same time that
Section 39052 as amended by A.B. 1985 becomes operative,
and at that time, Section 39052 of the Health and Safety Code
as amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such ne-
cessity are:
   Uncertainty and confusion have arisen with respect to the
application of emission standards to motor vehicles which have
been modified or altered to use a fuel other than gasoline or
diesel. Such application would impose an unnecessary and se-
vere hardship upon the owners of such vehicles by requiring
reconversion to the original exhaust emission control system.
In order to resolve such uncertainty and confusion and to
avoid unnecessary litigation, it is necessary that this act go
into immediate effect.

                          C H A P T E E 1254
       An act to amend Section 10703 of the Education
               Code, relating to student funds.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10703 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   10703. The funds of any student body organization estab-
lished in the public schools of any school district shall, subject
to approval of the governing board of the school district, be
deposited or invested in one or more of the following ways:
   (a) Deposits in a bank or banks whose accounts are insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (b) Investment certificates or withdrawable shares in state
chartered savings and loan associations and savings accounts
of federal savings and loan associations provided such associa-
tions are doing business in this state and have their accounts
insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion.
   (c) Purchase of United States savings bonds (Series F and
G) as authorized for investment by subdivision (a) of Section
16430 of the Government Code.
   The funds shall be expended subject to such procedure as
may be established by the student body organization subject
to the approval of each of the following three persons which
shall be obtained each time before any of such funds may be
expended: an employee or official of the school district desig-
2454                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     TCh. 1 2 5 5

nated by the governing board, the certificated employee who is
the designated adviser of the particular student body organiza-
tion, and a representative of the particular student body or-
ganization.

                         CHAPTER 1255
An act to amend Sections 10960 and 10962 of the Welfare and
   Institutions Code, relating to public assistance appeals.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 10960 of the Welfare and Institutions
 Code is amended to read:
    10960. Within 30 days after receiving the proposed deci-
 sion of a referee adopted by the director or a decision issued
 by the director himself, the affected county or applicant or
 recipient may file a request with the director for a rehearing.
 The director shall immediately serve a copy of the request on
 the other party to the hearing and such other party may
 within five days of the service file with the director a written
 statement supporting or objecting to the request. The director
 shall grant or deny the request no earlier than the fifth nor
 later than the 15th day after the receipt of the request. If the
 director grants the request, the rehearing shall be conducted
 in the same manner and subject to the same time limits as the
 original hearing. If action is not taken by the director within
 the time allowed, the request shall be deemed denied.
    SEC. 2. Section 10962 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   10962. The applicant or recipient or the affected county,
within one year after receiving notice of the director's final
decision, may file a petition with the superior court, under the
provisions of Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
praying for a review of the entire proceedings in the matter,
upon questions of law involved in the case. Such review, if
granted, shall be the exclusive remedy available to the appli-
cant or recipient or county for review of the director's deci-
sion. The director shall be the sole respondent in such pro-
ceedings. Immediately upon being served the director shall
serve a copy of the petition on the other party entitled to judi-
cial review and such party shall have the right to intervene
in the proceedings.
   No filing fee shall be required for the filing of a petition
pursuant to this section. Any such petition to the superior
court shall be entitled to a preference in setting a date for
hearing on the petition. No bond shall be required in the case
of any petition for review, nor in any appeal therefrom. The
applicant or recipient shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's
fees and costs, if he obtains a decision in his favor.
                       1969
Ch. 1256]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2455

                          CHAPTER 1256
       An act to amend Section 1248 of the Code of Civil
           Procedure, relating to eminent domain.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 1248 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
    1248. The court, jury, or referee must hear such legal testi-
 mony as may be offered by any of the parties to the proceeding,
 and thereupon must ascertain and assess:
    1. The value of the property sought to be condemned, and
 all improvements thereon pertaining to the realty, and of each
 and every separate estate or interest therein; if it consists of
 different parcels, the value of each parcel and each estate or
interest therein shall be separately assessed;
    2. If the property sought to be condemned constitutes only
a part of a larger parcel, the damages which will accrue to the
 portion not sought to be condemned, by reason of its severance
from the portion sought to be condemned, and the construction
of the improvement in the manner proposed by the plaintiff;
    3. Separately, how much the portion not sought to be con-
demned, and each estate or interest therein, will be benefited,
if at all, by the construction of the improvement proposed by
the plaintiffs. If the benefit shall be equal to the damages
assessed under subdivision 2, the owner of the parcel shall be
allowed no compensation except the value of the portion taken.
If the benefit shall be less than the damages so assessed, the
former shall be deducted from the latter, and the remainder
shall be the only damages allowed in addition to the value.
If the benefit shall be greater than the damages so assessed,
the owner of the parcel shall be allowed no compensation ex-
cept the value of the portion taken, but the benefit shall in no
event be deducted from the value of the portion taken;
   4. If the property sought to be condemned be water or the
use of water, belonging to riparian owners, or appurtenant to
any lands, how much the lands of the riparian owner, or the
lands to which the property sought to be condemned is ap-
purtenant, will be benefited, if at all, by a diversion of water
from its natural course, by the construction and maintenance,
by the person or corporation in whose favor the right of emi-
nent domain is exercised, of works for the distribution and con-
venient delivery of water upon said lands; and such benefit, if
any, shall be deducted from any damages awarded the owner
of such property;
   5. If the property sought to be condemned be for a railroad,
the cost of good and sufficient fences, along the line of such
railroad, and the cost of cattle guards, where fences may cross
the line of such railroad; and such court, jury or referee shall
2456              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQ^   \256

also determine the necessity for and designate the number,
place and manner of making such farm or private crossings
as are reasonably necessary or proper to connect the parcels of
land severed by the easement condemned, or for ingress to or
egress from the lands remaining after the taking of the part
thereof sought to be condemned, and shall ascertain and as-
sess the cost of the construction and maintenance of such
crossings;
    6. If the removal, alteration or relocation of structures or
improvements is sought, the cost of such removal, alteration or
relocation and the damages, if any, which will accrue by rea-
son thereof;
    7. As far as practicable, compensation must be assessed for
each source of damages separately.
    8. When the property sought to be taken is encumbered by
a mortgage or other lien, and the indebtedness secured thereby
 is not due at the time of the entry of the judgment, the
 amount of such indebtedness may be, at the option of the
plaintiff, deducted from the judgment, and the lien of the
mortgage or other lien shall be continued until such indebted-
 ness is paid; except that the amount for which, as between
 the plaintiff and the defendant, the plaintiff is liable under
 Section 1252.1 may not be deducted from the judgment.
    9. "Where property is encumbered by a mortgage or other
 lien and only a portion of the encumbered property is sought
 to be taken, and where the property being taken, or some
 portion of it, is also encumbered by a mortgage or other lien
 which is junior to the first-mentioned lien and such junior
 mortgage or other lien is against only a portion of the prop-
 erty encumbered by the senior mortgage or other lien, it shall
 be determined whether the award is sufficient in amount so
 that the amounts owing to the holders of such senior and
 junior liens may be paid in full from the award.
    If it is determined that the award is not sufficient in
 amount to pay in full such senior and junior liens, the
 amount of indebtedness which is secured respectively by the
 senior and junior liens on the property taken, and which
 will be paid from the award or deducted from the judgment
 pursuant to subdivision 8, shall be determined as follows:
     (a) The total amount of the award which will be available
 for payment to the senior and junior lienholders shall be de-
 termined. Such amount shall tentatively be allocated first to
 the senior lien up to the full amount of the indebtedness se-
 cured by the senior lien, and the remainder, if any, shall ten-
 tatively be allocated to the junior lien.
     (b) It shall then be determined whether the payment to the
 junior lienholder of the amount tentatively allocated to the
  junior lien together with elimination of the junior lien on the
  property taken, would cause the junior lienholder's security
  remaining after the taking, if any, to be of less value in pro-
  portion to the indebtedness owing after the taking than was
                       1969
Ch. 12571                     REGULAR SESSION                   2457

the value of his security prior to the taking in proportion to
the indebtedness to him prior to the taking.
    (e) If it is determined that the proportionate security of
the junior lienholder would be reduced by the taking if only
the tentative amount allocated to the junior lien were paid to
the junior lienholder, the tentative allocations to the senior
and the junior liens shall be adjusted. To make such adjust-
ment there shall be deducted from the amount tentatively
allocated to the senior lien, and there shall be added to the
amount tentatively allocated to the junior lien, an amount
sufficient, considering the junior lienholder's remaining lien
on property not taken, to preserve the security of the holder
of the junior lien for amounts which will remain owing to
him after payment to him from the award. Deduction shall
not be made from the amount tentatively allocated to the
senior lien to the extent that the remaining amount allocated
to the senior lien, if paid to the senior lienholder, would
cause the security of the senior lienholder remaining after
the taking to be of less value in proportion to the amount
remaining owing to him after such payment, than the value
of his security prior to the taking, in proportion to the amount
secured by his lien before such payment.
    (d) No adjustment of the tentative allocations shall be
made if it is determined that the security of the junior lien-
holder which will remain after the taking appears to be suf-
ficient in value to satisfy the indebtedness which will remain
owing to the junior lienholder after the taking.
   The amounts tentatively allocated to such senior and junior
liens, adjusted by such deduction and addition, if any, are
the amounts of indebtedness owing to such senior and junior
lienholders which are secured by their respective liens on the
property taken, and any other indebtedness owing to the sen-
ior or junior lienholders shall not be considered as secured by
the property to be taken. If the amount of such indebtedness
payable to either the senior or to the junior lienholder is not
due at the time of entry of the judgment, and the plaintiff
makes the election provided in subdivision 8, the indebted-
ness which shall be deducted from the judgment is the in-
debtedness in the amount so determined, and the lien shall
continue until that amount of indebtedness is paid.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative on July 1, 1970.


                          CHAPTER 1257
     An act to add Section 5989.5 to the Education Code,
           relating to work experience education.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 81, 1969.]
2458              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      rf^   J258

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 5989.5 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   5989.5. The governing board of any school district which
establishes and supervises a work experience education pro-
gram in which mentally retarded pupils are employed in part-
time jobs may use funds derived from any source, to the
extent permissible by appropriate law or regulation, to pay
the wages of pupils so employed.
   The Legislature hereby finds and declares that the authority
granted by the provisions of this section is necessary to ensure
that the work experience education program will continue to
provide maximum educational benefit to students, particularly
mentally retarded pupils, and that such program is deemed
to serve a public purpose.

                        CHAPTBE 1258
An act to amend Section 31264 of the Education Code, relating
  to the College Opportunity Grant Program in junior col-
  leges, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect im-
  mediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31264 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  31264. To be eligible for a grant under this chapter, a
student shall meet all of the following:
   (a) Be a disadvantaged student under criteria to be
established by the State Scholarship and Loan Commission,
which shall take into consideration those financial, educational,
cultural, language, home, community, environmental, and other
conditions which tend to make difficult the gaining access to
and persisting in postsecondary programs.
   (b) Be in need of financial assistance to attend college.
   (c) Have demonstrated substantial potential for success-
fully participating at an institution of higher education and
for future leadership in the community.
   (d) Be a resident of the State of California, as defined in
subdivision (a) of Section 31203.
   (e) Be a citizen of the United States or have been admitted
to permanent residence.
   (f) Be admitted to and enroll in a California public com-
munity or junior college either accredited by or accepted as a
recognized candidate for accreditation by the "Western Asso-
ciation of Schools and Colleges, or be admitted to and enroll
in a California public or private college accredited by the
                       1969
Ch. 12591                     REGULAR SESSION                   2459

"Western Association of Schools and Colleges as a full-time un-
dergraduate student.
   (g) Maintain satisfactory progress toward a degree and eli-
gibility as denned by the State Scholarship and Loan Com-
mission.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article I V of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   There are several public community or junior colleges which
are in various stages of being accredited by the Western Asso-
ciation of Schools and Colleges. Such accreditation is immi-
nent, but may not be completed in time for students to be
eligible for the College Opportunity Grant Program during
the 1969-1970 school year. Therefore, it is necessary that this
act take immediate effect.

                          C H A P T E E 1259
An act to amend Sections 849, 853.6, 1278, 1287, 1295, 1305,
  1458, and 1459 of, and to add Section 1320 to, the Penal
  Code, relating to arrested persons.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 849 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
  849. (a) When an arrest is made without a warrant by
a peace officer or private person, the person arrested, if not
otherwise released, must, without unnecessary delay, be taken
before the nearest or most accessible magistrate in the county
in which the offense is triable, and a complaint stating the
charge against the arrested person, must be laid before such
magistrate.
   (b) Any peace officer may release from custody, instead of
taking such person before a magistrate, any person arrested
without a warrant whenever:
   (1) He is satisfied that there is no ground for making a
criminal complaint against the person arrested. Any record of
such arrest shall include a record of the release hereunder
and thereafter shall not be deemed an arrest but a detention
only.
   (2) The person arrested was arrested for intoxication only,
and no further proceedings are desirable.
   SEC. 2. Section 853.6 of the Penal Code is amended to
read :
   853.6. (a) In any case in which a person is arrested for
an offense declared to be a misdemeanor and does not demand
2460              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               \ Gh. 1259

to be taken before a magistrate, such person may, instead of
being taken before a magistrate, be released according to the
procedures set forth by this chapter. If the arresting officer or
his superior determines that the person should be released,
such officer or superior shall prepare in duplicate a written
notice to appear in court, containing the name and address
of such person, the offense charged, and the time and place
where and when such person shall appear in court. If the
person is not released prior to being booked and the officer in
 charge of the booking or his superior determines that the per-
son should be released, such officer or superior shall prepare
such written notice to appear in court.
    (b) Unless waived by the person, the time specified in the
notice to appear must be at least five (5) days after arrest.
    (c) The place specified in the notice shall be the court of
the magistrate before whom the person would be taken if the
requirement of taking an arrested person before a magistrate
were complied with, or shall be an officer authorized by such
court to receive a deposit of bail.
    (d) The officer shall deliver one copy of the notice to ap-
pear to the arrested person, and the arrested person, in order
to secure release, must give his written promise so to appear
in court by signing the duplicate notice which shall be re-
tained by the officer. Thereupon the arresting officer shall
forthwith release the person arrested from custody.
    (e) The officer shall, as soon as practicable, file the dupli-
cate notice with the magistrate specified therein. Thereupon
the magistrate may fix the amount of bail which in his
 judgment, in accordance with the provisions of Section 1275
 of the Penal Code, will be reasonable and sufficient for the
 appearance of the defendant and shall indorse upon the notice
a statement signed by him in the form set forth in Section
 815a of this code. The defendant may, prior to the date upon
 which he promised to appear in court, deposit with the magis-
trate the amount of bail thus set. Thereafter, at the time when
the case is called for arraignment before the magistrate, if
 the defendant shall not appear, either in person or by counsel,
the magistrate may declare the bail forfeited, and may in his
 discretion order that no further proceedings shall be had in
 such case.
    Upon the making of such order that no further proceedings
be had, all sums deposited as bail shall forthwith be paid into
the county treasury for distribution pursuant to Section 1463
 of this code.
    (f) No warrant shall issue on such charge for the arrest of
 a person who has given such written promise to appear in
 court, unless and until he has violated such promise or has
 failed to deposit bail, to appear for arraignment, trial or
 judgment, or to comply with the terms and provisions of the
 judgment, as required by law.
                     1969
Ch. 1259]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2461

    (g) The officer shall indicate on the notice to appear whether
he desires the arrested person to be booked as defined in sub-
division 21 of Section 7 of this code. In such event, the magis-
trate shall, before the proceedings are finally concluded, order
the defendant to be booked by the arresting agency.
    (h) A peace officer may use the written notice to appear
procedure set forth in this section for any misdemeanor offense
in which the officer has arrested a person pursuant to Section
836 or in which he has taken custody of a person pursuant to
Section 847.
    (i) If the arrested person is not released pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter prior to being booked by the arrest-
ing agency, then at the time of booking the arresting officer,
the officer in charge of such booking or his superior officer, or
any other person designated by a city or county for this purpose
shall make an immediate investigation into the background of
the person to determine whether he should be released pur-
suant to the provisions of this chapter. Such investigation
shall include, but need not be limited to, the person's name,
address, length of residence at that address, length of residence
within this state, marital and family status, employment,
length of that employment, prior arrest record, and such other
facts relating to the person's arrest which would bear on the
question of his release pursuant to the provisions of this chap-
ter.
    SEC. 3. Section 1278 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
    1278. Bail is put in by a written undertaking, executed
by two sufficient sureties (with or without the defendant, in
the discretion of the magistrate), and acknowledged before
the court or magistrate, in substantially the following form:
    An order having been made on the                        day of
           , 19     by            , a judge of the Justice Court of
             County (or as the case may be), that                 be
held to answer upon a charge of (stating briefly the nature of
the offense), upon which he has been admitted to bail in the
sum of                 dollars ($            ) ; we,            and
           , of             (stating their place of residence and
occupation), hereby undertake that the above-named
will appear and answer any charge in any accusatory pleading
based upon the acts supporting the charge above mentioned,
in whatever court it may be prosecuted, and will at all times
 hold himself amenable to the orders and process of the court,
and if convicted, will appear for pronouncement of judgment
 or grant of probation, or if he fails to perform either of these
 conditions, that we will pay to the people of the State of
 California the sum of               dollars ($         ) (inserting
the sum in which the defendant is admitted to bail). If the
 forfeiture of this bond be ordered by the court, judgment may
 be summarily made and entered forthwith against the said
  (naming the sureties), and the defendant if he be a party to
 the bond, for the amount of their respective undertakings
2462               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Q^ ^259

 herein, as provided by Sections 1305 and 1306 of the Penal
  Code.
     SEC. 4. Section 1287 of the Penal Code is amended to
 read:
     1287. The bail must be put in by a written undertaking,
 executed by two sufficient sureties (with or without the de-
 fendant, in the discretion of the court or magistrate), and
 acknowledged before the court or magistrate, in substantially
 the following form:
     An indictment having been found on the                 day of
            , 1 9 — , in the Superior Court of the County of
            , charging              with the crime of
  (designating it generally) and he having been admitted
 to bail in the sum of                   dollars ($         ), we,
         ^- and              , of             (stating their place
 of residence and occupation), hereby undertake that the
 above-named                will appear and answer any charge in
 any accusatory pleading based upon the acts supporting the
 indictment above mentioned, in whatever court it may be pros-
 ecuted, and will at all times render himself amenable to the
 orders and process of the court, and, if convicted, will appear
 for pronouncement of judgment or grant of probation; or, if
 he fails to perform either of these conditions, that we will pay
 to the people of the State of California the sum of
 dollars ($            ) (inserting the sum in which the defendant
 is admitted to bail). If the forfeiture of this bond be ordered
 by the court, judgment may be summarily made and entered
forthwith against the said (naming the sureties, and the de-
fendant if he be a party to the bond), for the amount of their
respective undertakings herein, as provided by Sections 1305
and 1306 of the Penal Code.
     SEC. 5. Section 1295 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
    1295. The defendant, or any other person, at any time
after an order admitting defendant to bail or after the arrest
and booking of a defendant for having committed a misde-
meanor, instead of giving bail may deposit with the clerk of
the court in which the defendant is held to answer or notified
to appear for arraignment, the sum mentioned in the order,
or if no order, in the schedule of bail previously fixed by the
judges of said court, and upon delivering to the officer in
whose custody defendant is a certificate of the deposit, de-
fendant must be discharged from custody.
    "Where more than one such deposit is made with respect to
any charge in any accusatory pleading based upon the acts
supporting the original charge as a result of which an earlier
deposit was made, the defendant shall receive credit in the
amount of any such earlier deposit.
    SEC. 6. Section 1305 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
    1305. If, without sufficient excuse, the defendant neglects
to appear for arraignment or for trial or judgment, or upon
any other occasion when his presence in court is lawfully re-
                     1969
Ch. 1259]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2463

 quired, or to surrender himself in execution of the judgment,
the court must direct the fact to be entered upon its minutes
and the undertaking of bail, or the money deposited instead
of bail, as the case may be, must thereupon be declared for-
feited, and, if the amount of the forfeiture exceeds fifty dollars
 ($50), the clerk of the court shall, promptly upon entering the
fact of such failure to appear in the minutes, mail notice of
the forfeiture to the surety on the bond or depositor of money
instead of a bond, and shall execute an affidavit of such mail-
ing and place it in the court's file in the case. If the surety is
an authorized corporate surety insurer, and if the bond has
plainly printed or stamped thereon the address of its principal
office in California, such notice shall be mailed to such surety
at such address, and mailing to the bail agent or solicitor who
posted the bond shall not constitute compliance with this
section; the clerk shall at the same time send a copy of such
notice to the bail agent or solicitor who posted the bond.
If the clerk fails to mail such notice within 30 days after such
entry, the surety or depositor shall be released from all obli-
gations under the bond. But if at any time within 180 days
after such entry in the minutes or, if mailing of notice of
forfeiture is required, within 180 days after mailing such
notice of forfeiture, the defendant and his bail appear, and
satisfactorily excuse the defendant's neglect or show to the
satisfaction of the court that the absence of the defendant was
not with the connivance of the bail, the court shall direct the
forfeiture of the undertaking or the deposit to be discharged
upon such terms as may be just. If within 180 days after
such entry in the minutes or mailing as the case may be, it
is made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that the
defendant is dead or is otherwise permanently unable to
appear in court due to illness, insanity, or detention by civil
or military authorities, and that the absence of the defendant
was not with the connivance of the bail, the court shall direct
the forfeiture of the undertaking or the deposit to be dis-
charged upon such terms as may be just. If within 180 days
after such entry in the minutes or mailing as the case may be,
it is made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that the
defendant is temporarily disabled by reason of illness, in-
sanity, or detention by civil or military authorities and is
therefore unable to appear in court at any time during the
remainder of such 180 days, and that the absence of the de-
fendant has not been with the connivance of the bail, then
the period of time during which the disability continues shall
not be deemed part of such 180 days. Upon a finding by the
court that a reasonable period of time is necessary in order to
return the defendant to court upon the termination of the dis-
ability, then such period of time, as fixed by the court, shall
not be deemed part of such 180 days. If at any time within
180 days after such entry in the minutes or mailing as the
case may be, the bail should surrender the defendant to the
court or to custody, the court shall direct the forfeiture of the

   78—1954
2464               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Ch. 1259

undertaking or the deposit to be discharged upon such terms
as may be just.
   No order discharging the forfeiture of the undertaking or
deposit shall be made without opportunity for hearing and the
filing of a notice of motion for such order setting forth the
basis for relief, with proof of service upon the district attor-
ney or other representative of the people at least 10 days prior
to the time set for hearing of the motion and otherwise in
compliance with the provisions of Section 1010 of the Code
of Civil Procedure. Such notice may be given by the surety
insurer, its bail agent, the surety, or depositor of money, any
of whom may give such notice and appear either in person
or by attorney. Such notice of motion must be filed within
180 days after such entry in the minutes or mailing as the
case may be, and must be heard and determined within 30
days after the expiration of such 180 days, unless the court
for good cause shown, shall extend the time for hearing and
determination.
    SEC. 7. Section 1320 is added to the Penal Code, to read:
    1320. Whenever a person is detained in custody on a crimi-
nal charge prior to conviction for want of bail, such person is
entitled to an automatic review of the order fixing the amount
of his bail by the judge or magistrate having jurisdiction of
the offense. Such review shall be held not later than five days
from the time of the original order fixing the amount of his
bail.
    SEO. 8. Section 1458 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
    1458. The provisions of this code relative to bail are appli-
cable to bail in cases triable in inferior courts. The defendant,
at any time after his arrest and before conviction, may be
admitted to bail. The undertaking of bail in such a case shall
be in substantially the following form:
   A complaint having been filed on the                      day of
           , 19     , in the          Court of             County of
              (stating title and location of court) charging
             (naming defendant) as defendant with the crime
of               (designating it generally) and he having been
admitted to bail in the sum of                 dollars ($           )
 (stating amount);
   We,              and          , of           (stating their places
of residence and occupation), hereby undertake that the above-
named defendant will appear and answer any charge in any
accusatory pleading based upon the acts supporting the com-
plaint above mentioned and all duly authorized amendments
thereof, in whatever court it may be prosecuted, and will at all
times hold himself amenable to the orders and process of the
court, and, if convicted, will appear for pronouncement of judg-
ment or grant of probation or if he fails to perform either of
these conditions, that we will pay to the people of the State of
California the sum of               dollars ($          ) (inserting
the sum in which the defendant is admitted to bail). If the for-
                     1969
Ch. 12591                   REGULAR SESSION                    2465

feiture of this bond is ordered by the court, judgment may be
summarily made and entered forthwith against the said
             (naming the sureties and the defendant if he is a
party to the bond) for the amount of their respective under-
takings herein, as provided by Sections 1305 and 1306 of the
California Penal Code.
    SEC. 9. Section 1459 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   1459. Undertakings of bail filed in inferior courts by ad-
mitted surety insurers shall meet all other requirements of law
and the obligation of the insurer shall be in the following
form:
               (stating the title and the location of the court).
   Defendant                (stating the name of the defendant)
having been admitted to bail in the sum of                    dollars
 ($           ) (stating the amount of bail fixed) and ordered to
appear in the above-entitled court on               , 19     (stating
the date for appearance in court), on                  (stating only
the word "misdemeanor" or the word "felony") charge/s;
   Now, the                (stating the name of admitted surety
insurer and state of incorporation) hereby undertakes that the
above-named defendant will appear in the above-named court
on the date above set forth to answer any charge in any ac-
cusatory pleading based upon the acts supporting the com-
plaint filed against him/her and all duly authorized amend-
ments thereof, in whatever court it may be prosecuted, and will
at all times hold him/herself amenable to the orders and pro-
cess of the court and, if convicted, will appear for pronounce-
ment of judgment or grant of probation or if he/she fails to
perform either of these conditions, that the                 (stating
the name of admitted surety insurer and state of incorpora-
tion) will pay to the people of the State of California the sum
of             dollars ($           ) (stating the amount of the un-
dertaking of the admitted surety insurer).
    If the forfeiture of this bond be ordered by the court, judg-
ment may be summarily made and entered forthwith against
the said               (stating the name of admitted surety in-
surer and state of incorporation) for the amount of its under-
taking herein, as provided by Sections 3305 and 1306 of the
California Penal Code.

                   (Stating the name of admitted surety in-
                    surer and state of incorporation),
                                    (Signature)
                  By
                                  Attorney in fact
                                   (Corporate seal)
(Jurat of notary public
or other officer authorized
to administer oaths.)
   SEC. 10. This act shall apply only prospectively.
2466              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. 1260

                        CHAPTEK 1260
An act to amend Section 1777.5 of the Labor Code, relating
  to public works, declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
  immediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 81, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1777.5 of the Labor Code is amended
to read:
   1777.5. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the employ-
ment of properly indentured apprentices upon public works.
   Every such apprentice shall be paid the standard wage paid
to apprentices under the regulations of the craft or trade at
which he is employed, and shall be employed only at the work
of the craft or trade to which he is indentured.
   Only apprentices, as defined in Section 3077, who are in
training under apprenticeship standards and written appren-
tice agreements under Chapter 4 (commencing at Section
3070), Division 3, of the Labor Code, are eligible to be em-
ployed on public works. The employment and training of each
apprentice shall be in accordance with the provisions of the
apprenticeship standards and apprentice agreements under
which he is training.
   When the contractor to whom the contract is awarded by the
state or any political subdivision, or any subcontractor under
him, in performing any of the work under the contract or
subcontract, employs workmen in any apprentieeable craft or
trade, the contractor and subcontractor shall apply in each
such case to the joint apprenticeship committee administering
the apprenticeship standards of the craft or trade in the area
of the site of the public work for a certificate approving the
contractor or subcontractor under the apprenticeship stand-
ards for the employment and training of apprentices in the
area of the site of the public work. The committee shall issue
a certificate fixing the number of apprentices or the ratio of
apprentices to journeymen who shall be employed in the craft
or trade on the public work. The ratio shall not exceed that
stipulated in the apprenticeship standards under which the
joint apprenticeship committee operates, but in no case shall
the ratio be less than one apprentice for each five journeymen,
except as otherwise provided in this section.
   The contractor or subcontractor, if he is covered by this
section, shall, upon the issuance of the approval certificate in
each such craft or trade, employ the number of apprentices
or the ratio of apprentices to journeymen fixed in the certifi-
cate issued by the joint apprenticeship committee. Upon
proper showing by the contractor that he employs appren-
tices in such craft or trade in the state on all of his contracts
on an annual average of not less than one apprentice to each
                     1969
Ch. 12601                   REGULAR SESSION                   2467

 eight journeymen, the Division of Apprenticeship Standards
 shall grant a certificate exempting the contractor from the
 l-to-5 ratio as set forth in this section.
    "Apprenticeable craft or t r a d e , " as used in this section,
 shall mean a craft or trade determined as an apprenticeable
 occupation in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed
 by the Apprenticeship Council. The joint apprenticeship com-
 mittee shall have the discretion to grant a certificate exempting
 a contractor from the l-to-5 ratio set forth in this section when
 it finds that any one of the following conditions is met:
     (a) In the event unemployment for the previous three-
 month period in such area exceeds an average of 15 percent, or
     (b) I n the event the number of apprentices in training in
such area exceeds a ratio of 1 to 5, or
     (c) If there is a showing that the apprenticeable craft or
trade is replacing at least one-thirtieth of its journeymen an-
nually through apprenticeship training, either (1) on a state-
wide basis, or (2) on a local basis.
     (d) If assignment of an apprentice to any work performed
under a public works contract would create a condition which
would jeopardize his life or the life, safety, or property of
 fellow employees or the public at large or if the specific task
 to which the apprentice is to be assigned is of such a nature
that training cannot be provided by a journeyman.
    "When such exemptions are granted to an organization which
represents contractors in a specific trade from the l-to-5 ratio
on a local or statewide basis the member contractors will not
be required to submit individual applications for approval to
local joint apprenticeship committees, provided they are al-
ready covered by the local apprenticeship standards.
    A contractor to whom the contract is awarded, or any sub-
contractor under him, who, in performing any of the work
under the contract, employs journeymen or apprentices in any
apprenticeable craft or trade and who is not contributing to a
fund or funds to administer and conduct the apprenticeship
program in any such craft or trade in the area of the site of
the public work, to which fund or funds other contractors in
the area of the site of the public work are contributing, shall
contribute to the fund or funds in each craft or trade in which
he employs journeymen or apprentices on the public work in
the same amount or upon the same basis and in the same man-
ner as the other contractors do. The contractor or subcontrac-
tor may add the amount of such contributions in computing
his bid for the contract. The Division of Labor Law Enforce-
ment is authorized to enforce the payment of such contribu-
tions to the fund or funds as set forth in Section 227.
    The body awarding the contract shall cause to be inserted
in the contract stipulations to effectuate this section.
    In the event a contractor willfully fails to comply with this
section, such contractor shall be denied the right to bid on a
 2468                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Q^. 1261

 public works contract for a period of six months from the date
 the determination is made.
   The interpretation and enforcement of this section shall be
 in accordance with the rules and procedures prescribed by the
 Apprenticeship Council.
   All decisions of the joint apprenticeship committee under
 this section are subject to the provisions of Section 3081.
    SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
 immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
 within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
 shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
 necessity are:
    The 1968 amendments to this section created difficulties in
 contract negotiations, the subject matter of which is vital to
 the public welfare, and in the ability of contractors to meet
 the requirements of this section. This act must take effect im-
 mediately to solve these difficulties.


                           CHAPTER 1261
        An act to amend Section 11583 of the Insurance Code,
              relating to payment of insurance claims.
             [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                    Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

 The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 11583 of the Insurance Code is amended
 to read:
    11583. No advance payment or partial payment of damages
 made by any person, or made by his insurer under liability in-
  surance as defined in subdivision (a) of Section 108, as an ac-
  commodation to an injured person or on his behalf to others or
 to the heirs at law or dependents of a deceased person because
  of an injury or death claim or potential claim against any per-
 son or insured shall be construed as an admission of liability by
 the person claimed against, or of that person's or the insurer's
 recognition of such liability, with respect to such injured or de-
 ceased person or with respect to any other claim arising from
 the same accident or event. Any such payments shall, however,
 constitute a credit and be deductible from any final settlement
 made or judgment rendered with respect to such injured or de-
 ceased person which does not expressly take into account such
 advance payments. Any person, including any insurer, who
 makes such an advance or partial payment, shall at the time
 of beginning payment, notify the recipient thereof in writing
 of the statute of limitations applicable to the cause of action
 which such recipient may bring against such person as a
result of such injury or death, including any time limitations
within which claims are required to be made against the state
                       1969
Ch. 1263]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2469

or any local public entity when such payments are made on
behalf of such public entities. Failure to provide such written
notice shall operate to toll any such applicable statute of limi-
tations or time limitations from the time of such advance or
partial payment until such written notice is actually given.


                          CHAPTER 1262
    An act to amend Section 13341 of the Education Code,
           relating to teacher-training institutions.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13341 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   13341. The governing board of any school district, a
county board of education, or the State Department of Educa-
tion may execute a contract with any California teacher-train-
ing institution whereby certificated personnel of the school
district, county, or the State Department of Education may
be assigned to the teacher-training institution for full-time or
part-time duty for a period not to exceed one year.
   Any teacher-training institution in California may execute a
contract with the governing board of any school district, a
county board of education, or the State Board of Education
whereby certificated personnel of the institution may be as-
signed to school districts, county boards of education, or the
State Department of Education for full-time or part-time duty
for a period not to exceed one year.
   Any such contract shall provide for the payment, by the
entity to which a person is assigned to the employer, of a sum
equivalent to the salary and other employment costs of any
such employee. In place of such payment, the contract may
provide for the exchange of certificated personnel between the
district, county, or State Department of Education and the
teacher-training institution. Any such employee shall retain
his status as an employee of the school district, county, State
Department of Education, or teacher-training institution from
which he is assigned in all respects during the period of such
assignment.

                          CHAPTER 1263

An act to amend Section 1110 of the Health and Safety Code,
  relating to the California Conference of Local Health Of-
  ficers.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.1
2470               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Q^   J264

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1110 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   1110. There is hereby established a California Conference
of Local Health Officers with which the board and the state
department shall consult in establishing standards as provided
in this chapter and may consult on other matters affecting
health. The conference may consult with, advise, and make
recommendations to the State Department of Public Health,
other departments, boards, commissions and officials of fed-
eral, state, and local government, the Legislature, and any
other organization or association on matters affecting health.
The conference shall consist of all legally appointed local
health officers in the state. It shall organize, adopt bylaws, and
shall annually elect officers.
   Actual and necessary expenses, including any necessary
registration fee, incident to attendance at not more than two
meetings per year of the conference shall be a legal charge
against the local governmental unit. Actual and necessary
expenses incident to attendance at special meetings of the
committees of the conference called by the director shall be
a legal charge against any funds available for administration
of this chapter.

                        CHAPTER 1264
An act to add Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 23700)
  to Division 1 of Title 3 of, and Chapter 3 (commencing with
  Section 34450) to Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 4 of, and to
  repeal Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 34450) of Part
  1, Division 2, Title 4 of, the Government Code, relating to
  codification of various provisions to he omitted from the
  California Constitution in its revision.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 23700) is
added to Division 1, Title 3 of the Government Code, to read:
               CHAPTER 5.      COUNTY CHARTERS

               Article 1. Proposing a Charter
   23700. Counties may propose charters or revise existing
charters according to the provisions of this chapter.
   23701. Proceedings to propose or revise a charter may be
initiated by ordinance, adopted by a majority vote of the
members of the governing body of each county. The ordinance
shall declare that the public interest requires the election of
                      1969
Ch. 1264]                    REGULAR SESSION                     2471

a charter commission composed of 15 qualified electors of the
county, to be elected by the qualified electors of the county,
at a general or special election. Proceedings to propose or re-
vise a charter may also be initiated by a petition of qualified
electors of the county as provided in this chapter.
   23702. Petitions to propose or revise a charter shall be
signed by at least 15 percent of the qualified electors of the
county, computed upon the total number of votes cast for all
candidates for Governor at the last preceding general election
at which a Governor was elected, and shall request the elec-
tion of a charter commission to prepare and propose or revise
a charter for the county. It shall be filed in the office of the
county clerk.
   23703. It shall be the duty of the county clerk, within 20
days after the filing of the petition, to examine the same, and
to ascertain from the record of the registration of electors
of the county, whether the petition is signed by the requisite
number of qualified electors. If required by the clerk, the gov-
erning body shall authorize him to employ persons specially
to assist him in the work of examining the petition, and shall
provide for their compensation.
   23704. Upon the completion of such examination, the
clerk shall attach to the petition his certificate, properly dated,
showing the result thereof; and if, by such certificate, it shall
appear that the petition is signed by the requisite number of
qualified electors, the clerk shall immediately present the pe-
tition to the governing body, if it be in session, otherwise
at its next regular meeting after the date of such certificate.
   23705. Upon the adoption of such ordinance, or the pres-
entation of such petition, the governing body shall order the
holding of a special election for the purpose of electing a
charter commission, which special election shall be held not
less than 20 days nor more than 60 days after the adoption
of the ordinance or the presentation of the petition to the
governing body. If a general election shall occur in the county
not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days after the adoption
of the ordinance, or the presentation of the petition to the
governing body, the charter commissioners may be elected at
such general election.
   23706. Candidates for election as members of the charter
commission shall be nominated substantially in the same man-
ner provided by general law for the nomination of candidates
for county offices.
   23707. At such election the electors shall vote first on the
question "Shall a charter commission be elected to propose
or revise a c h a r t e r ? " and secondly, for the candidates for the
office of charter commissioner. If the first question receives a
majority of the votes of the qualified voters voting at such elec-
tion, the 15 candidates for the office of charter commissioner
receiving the highest number of votes shall forthwith orga-
2472              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              m ^ . J264

nize as a charter commission, but if the first question receives
less than a majority of the votes of the qualified voters vot-
ing at such election, no charter commission shall be deemed
to have been elected.
   23708. It shall be the duty of the charter commission to
prepare and propose a charter or revised charter for the
county, which shall be signed in duplicate by the members of
the charter commission, or a majority of them, and be filed,
one copy in the office of the county clerk and the other in the
office of the county recorder.
   23709. The governing body shall cause the proposed char-
ter or revised charter to be published for at least 10 times
in a daily newspaper of general circulation, printed, published
and circulated in the county. In any county where no such
daily newspaper is printed, published and circulated, the pro-
posed or revised charter shall be published for at least three
times in at least one weekly newspaper of general circulation,
printed, published and circulated in the county. In any county
where neither a daily nor weekly newspaper is printed, pub-
lished and circulated, a copy of such proposed or revised char-
ter shall be posted by the county clerk in three public places
in the county, and on or near the entrance to at least one
public schoolhouse in each school district in the county. The
first publication or the posting of a proposed or revised char-
ter shall be made within 15 days after the filing of a copy
 thereof, in the office of the county clerk.
    23710. The proposed charter or revised charter shall be
submitted by the governing body to the qualified electors of
 the county at a special election held not less than 30 days nor
more than 60 days after the completion of the publication, or
posting provided for in Section 23709. If a general election
 shall occur in the county not less than 30 days nor more than
 60 days after the completion of the publication, or posting,
 then the proposed or revised charter may be submitted at the
general election.
   23711. As an alternative to the procedure provided for in
 Sections 23700 through 23710 of this article, the governing
body of any county, on its own motion may propose or cause
to be proposed or revise or cause to be revised, a proposed
charter and submit the proposal for adoption to the electors
at either a special election called for that purpose or at any
general or special election. Any charter so submitted shall be
advertised in the same manner as provided for the advertise-
ment of a charter proposed by a charter commission; and the
election on such charter shall be held at a date to be fixed by
the governing body of the county, which shall be not less than
40 nor more than 60 days after the completion of the adver-
tising in the official paper.
    23712. If the electors, voting at a general or special elec-
tion, shall vote in favor of the charter proposed or revised by
a charter commission or the governing body of a county, it
                      1969 R E < 3 t r L A K
Ch. 12641                                      SESSION        2473

shall be deemed to be ratified, and shall be forthwith submit-
ted to the Legislature, if it be in regular session, otherwise at
its next regular session, or it may be submitted to the Legisla-
ture in extraordinary session, for its approval or rejection as a
whole, without power of alteration or amendment. Such ap-
proval may be made by concurrent resolution, and if approved
by the majority vote of the members elected to each house,
such charter shall become the charter of such county and shall
become the organic law thereof relative to the matters provided
therein, and supersede any existing charter, and shall super-
sede all laws inconsistent with such charter relative to the mat-
ters provided in such charter.
   23713. A copy of the charter, certified and authenticated
by the chairman and clerk of the governing body under the
seal of the governing body and attested by the county clerk of
the county, setting forth the submission of the charter to the
electors of the county, and its ratification by them shall, after
the approval of the charter by the Legislature, be made in
duplicate, and filed, one in the office of the Secretary of State
and the other, after being recorded in the office of the recorder
of the county, shall be filed in the office of the county clerk, and
thereafter all courts shall take judicial notice of the charter.

         Article 2.     Charter Amendment and Eepeal
   23720. (a) A county charter may be amended by proposals
submitted by the governing body or by a petition signed by 10
percent of the qualified electors of the county, computed upon
the total number of votes cast in the county for all candidates
for Governor at the last general election at which a Governor
was elected, filed in the office of the county clerk of the county,
petitioning the governing body to submit a proposed amend-
ment or amendments to the charter of the county to the quali-
fied electors of the county, which amendment or amendments
are set forth in full in such petition.
   (b) A county charter may be repealed by proposals submit-
ted by the governing body or by a petition signed by 10 per-
cent of the qualified electors of the county computed upon the
total number of votes cast in the county for all candidates for
Governor at the last general election at which a Governor was
elected. Such petition, petitioning the governing body to sub-
mit the question of charter repeal to the qualified electors of
the county, shall be filed in the office of the county clerk of the
county.
   23721. The petition shall forthwith be examined and certi-
fied by the county clerk as provided in Section 23703 for peti-
tions for the election of a charter commission, and if signed by
the requisite number of qualified electors of the county, shall
be presented to the governing body, by the county clerk.
   23722. Upon the presentation of a petition, or upon its own
submission of a proposal to amend or repeal the charter, the
governing body shall submit the amendment or amendments
2474               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQJj J£64

 proposed or the question of the repeal of the charter to the
qualified electors of the county at a general or special election
held not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the
publication of such proposal in the same manner as that pro-
vided in Section 23709 for a proposed or revised charter. In
submitting the question of charter repeal or amendment, any
alternative article or proposition may be presented for the
choice of the electors, and may be voted on separately without
prejudice to others.
   23723. If the majority of electors voting, at a general or
special election, shall vote in favor of the proposed amendment
or amendments or in favor of charter repeal, the amendment
or amendments or charter repeal shall be deemed to be rati-
fied. Any charter amendment or amendments so ratified shall
be forthwith submitted to the Legislature, if it be in regular
session, otherwise at its next regular session, or may be sub-
mitted to the Legislature in extraordinary session, for approval
or rejection as a whole, without power of alteration or amend-
ment, and if approved by the Legislature, as provided in this
chapter for the approval of the charter, such charter shall be
amended accordingly.
   23724. A copy of the amendment or amendments shall,
after approval by the Legislature, be made in duplicate, and
shall be authenticated, certified, recorded and filed in the same
manner as provided in Section 23713 for the charter, and with
like force and effect.

                      Article 3.   Elections
   23730. Every special election held under the provisions of
this chapter, for the election of a charter commission or for the
submission of a proposed or revised charter, or any amendment
or amendments thereto, or repeal thereof, shall be called by the
governing body, by ordinance, which shall specify the purpose
and time of such election and shall establish the election pre-
cincts and designate the polling places therein, and the names
of the election officers for each such precinct.
   23731. Such ordinance, referred to in Section 23730, prior
to such election, shall be published five times in a daily news-
paper, or twice in a weekly newspaper, if there be no such
daily newspaper, printed, published and circulated in the
county. If no daily or weekly newspaper be printed or pub-
lished in such county, then a copy of such ordinance shall be
posted by the county clerk in three public places in the county
and in or near the entrance to at least one public sehoolhouse
in each school district. In all other respects, every such elec-
tion shall be held and conducted, the returns canvassed and the
result declared by the governing body in the same manner as
provided by law for general elections.
   23732. Whenever a charter commission shall be elected, or
any such proposed charter or revised charter, or amendment
                     1969
Ch. 1264]                   REGULAR SESSION                   2475

or amendments thereto, or repeal thereof, shall be submitted, at
a general election, the general laws applicable to the election
of county officers and the submission of propositions to the vote
of electors, shall be followed insofar as the same may be appli-
cable.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 34450) of
Part 1, Division 2, Title 4 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 34450) is
added to Part 1, Division 2, Title 4 of the Government Code,
to read:
                  CHAPTER 3.     CITY CHARTERS

    34450. Any city or city and county may propose or revise
a charter for its own government according to the provisions
of this article.
   34451. The charter may be proposed or revised by a charter
commission chosen by the electors of the city or city and
 county, at any general or special election, but no person shall
be eligible as a candidate for such commission unless he is an
elector of the city or city and county.
   34452. An election for choosing charter commissioners may
be called by a majority vote of the governing body of the city
or city and county, or on presentation of a petition signed by
not less than 15 percent of the registered electors of such city
or city and county. The governing body shall call such election
at any time not less than 30 nor more than 60 days from date
of the filing of the petition. Any such petition shall be verified
by the authority having charge of the registration records of
the city or city and county and the expenses of such verifica-
tion shall be provided by the governing body thereof.
   34453. At such election the electors shall vote first on the
question "Shall a charter commission be elected to propose a
new charter or to revise the c h a r t e r ? " and secondly for the
candidates of the office of charter commissioner. If the first
question receives a majority of the votes of the qualified voters
voting thereon at such election, the 15 candidates for the office
of charter commissioner receiving the highest number of votes
shall forthwith organize as a charter commission, but if the
first question receives less than a majority of the votes of the
qualified voters voting thereon at such election no charter com-
mission shall be deemed to have been elected.
   34454. Candidates for the office of charter commissioner
shall be nominated either in such manner as may be provided
for the nomination of officers of the municipal or city and
county government or by petition, substantially in the same
manner as may be provided by general laws for the nomination
by petition of electors of candidates for public offices to be
voted for at general elections.
   34455. The charter commissioners shall propose a charter
for the government of the city or city and county or revise a
charter. The charter so prepared shall be signed by a majority
of the charter commissioners and shall be filed in the office of
2476               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo 1264

the clerk of the governing body of the city or city and county.
The governing body of the city or city and county shall, within
15 days after such filing, cause such charter to be published
once in the official newspaper of said city or city and county
and in each edition thereof, during the day of publication. In
case there is no such official newspaper, the charter shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within such
city or city and county and in all the editions thereof issued
during the day of publication.
   34456. In any city or city and county with over 50,000
population, the governing body shall cause copies of the
charter to be printed in convenient pamphlet form and in type
of not less than 10-point and shall cause copies to be mailed to
each of the qualified electors of the city or city and county, and
shall, until the day fixed for the election upon the charter,
advertise in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
said city or city and county a notice that copies may be had
upon application therefor.
   34457. The proposed or revised charter shall be submitted
to the electors of the city or city and county at a date to be
fixed by the charter commission before its filing and desig-
nated on the charter, either at a special election held not less
than 60 days from the completion of the publication of the
charter as provided in this article, or at the general election
next following the expiration of said 60 days.
    34458. As an alternative to the procedure provided for in
 Sections 34450 through 34457 of this article, the governing
 body of any city or city and county, on its own motion may
 propose or cause to be proposed or revise or cause to be re-
vised, a charter and submit the proposal for the adoption or
revision thereof to the electors at either a special election
 called for that purpose or at any general or special election.
Any charter so submitted shall be advertised in the same
manner as provided for the advertisement of a charter pro-
posed by a charter commission; and the election on such
 charter shall be held at a date to be fixed by the governing
 body of the city or city and county, which shall be not less
 than 40 nor more than 60 days after the completion of the
 advertising in the official paper.
    34459. The charter of any city or city and county may be
 amended or repealed by proposals submitted by the governing
body on its own motion or by petition signed by 15 percent
 of the registered electors, or both. Such proposals shall be sub-
mitted to the electors at either a special election called for that
 purpose or at any general or special election.
    34460. Petitions for the submission of any amendment or
petitions for the repeal of a charter shall be filed with the
 governing body of the city or city and county not less than
 60 days prior to the general election next preceding a regular
 session of the Legislature. The signatures on such petitions
 shall be verified by the authority having charge of the regis-
                       1969
Ch. 1265]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2477

tration records of the city or city and county, and the expenses
of such verification shall be provided by the governing body
thereof.
   34461. If the petitions have a sufficient number of signa-
tures the governing body of the city or city and county shall
submit the amendment or amendments proposed or the pro-
posal for charter repeal to the electors. Amendments proposed
by the governing body and amendments proposed by petition
of the electors may be submitted at the same election. The
amendments so submitted or the proposal for charter repeal
shall be advertised in the same manner as provided for the
advertisement of a proposed or revised charter, and the elec-
tion on the proposed amendments or the proposal for charter
repeal shall be held at a date to be fixed by the governing body
of the city or city and county, which is not less than 40, and
not more than 60, days after the completion of the advertising
in the official paper.
   34462. The percentages of the registered electors required
for the election of charter commissioners or the submission of
amendments to charters or the proposal for charter repeal
shall be calculated upon the total vote cast for all candidates
for Governor in the city or city and county at the last preced-
ing general state election at which a Governor was elected;
and the qualified electors shall be those whose names appear
upon the registration records of the same or preceding year.
The election laws of such city, or city and county shall, so
far as applicable, govern all elections held under the authority
of this section.
   34463. One copy of the charter ratified and approved in
accordance with the provisions of this article shall be filed
with the Secretary of State, one with the recorder in the
county in which such city is located, and one in the archives
of the city, and in the case of a city and county one copy shall
be filed with the recorder thereof, and one in the archives of
such city and county; and thereafter the courts shall take
judicial notice of the provisions of such charter.
   SEC. 4. This act shall become operative only if Assembly
Constitutional Amendment No. 29 of the 1969 Regular Ses-
sion is adopted by the people, in which event it shall become
operative at the same time as Assembly Constitutional Amend-
ment No. 29.

                          CHAPTER 1265
An act to amend Sections 1052 and 10604 of, and to add
  Section 10604.3 to, the Education Code, relating to school
  government.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 81, 1969.]
2478               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Qfo. 1 2 6 6

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 1052 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   1052. The governing board of any school district shall pre-
scribe rules not inconsistent with law or with the rules pre-
scribed by the State Board of Education, for the government
and discipline of the schools under its jurisdiction.
   SEC. 2. Section 10604 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   10604. It is unlawful for any pupil, enrolled in any ele-
mentary or secondary school of this state, to join or become a
member of any secret fraternity, sorority, or club, wholly or
partly formed from the membership of pupils attending the
public schools, or to take part in the organization or formation
of any fraternity, sorority, or secret club. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent any pupil from joining
the order of the Native Sons of the Golden "West, Native
Daughters of the Golden West, Foresters of America, or other
kindred organizations not directly associated with the public
schools of the state.
   SEC. 3. Section 10604.3 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   10604.3. Any governing board may enforce the provisions
of Section 1052 by suspending, or, if necessary, expelling a
pupil in any elementary or secondary school who refuses or
neglects to obey any rules prescribed pursuant to that section.


                        CHAPTER 1266
An act to amend Section 6650 of the Government Code, relat-
          ing to state-supported bands or orchestras.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 6650 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   6650. (a) Any marching band organized by or maintained
by any educational institution supported in whole or in part
by public funds or granted any tax exemption as an educa-
tional institution may furnish music at any athletic event
where an admission is charged by any private person, partner-
ship operating for profit, or corporation organized for profit
only under the following conditions:
   (1) The performance is authorized by the governing body
of the institution;
   (2) A band or orchestra of not less than the number of pro-
fessional musicians customarily engaged for the athletic event
                       1969
Ch. 1267]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2479

in the particular auditorium, stadium, or place of performance
or 15 professional union musicians, whichever is greater, is em-
ployed to furnish music at the event; and
   (3) Neither the person, partnership, or corporation, nor the
agent thereof, advertises or makes known to the public by any
means or through any medium the pending performance of
such marching band as an added attraction to the event itself;
provided, however, that any person by any means or through
any medium including radio or television may identify such
marching band to the public at the actual moment of perform-
ance or thereafter.
   (b) Any band or orchestra organized by or maintained by
any institution supported in whole or in part by public funds
or granted any tax exemption as an educational institution may
furnish music at any activity of any other such institution
when authorized by its governing board.
   It is the intention of the Legislature to encourage the musi-
cianship of California's student bandsmen in marching bands
but in no way to reduce employment opportunities for pro-
fessional musicians. Private employers of professional musi-
cians are to be advised that the Legislature intends to encour-
age such employers to invite California's student marching
bands to perform but not to regard such specialized marching
performances as providing a substitute for the performance of
regularly employed professional musicians which would ordi-
narily be required by such employers for such admission-paid
events, in the absence of any performance at the same event
by a student marching band.


                          CHAPTER 1267
        An act to add Section 163.1 to the Military and
              Veterans Code, relating to records.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 163.1 is added to the Military and
Veterans Code, to read:
   163.1. All records of any special proceedings of any
board of inquiry convened by the commanding general of the
state military forces to investigate the causes of any accidents
involving National Guard aircraft, the purpose of which in-
vestigation is prevention of future accidents, shall not be ad-
missible for any purpose in evidence in any court of this state.
  Whenever any such accident involves property damage or
personal injury, a collateral investigation shall be conducted
to ascertain the causes of such accidents and the records of
any collateral investigations shall be discoverable under the
appropriate sections of the Code of Civil Procedure.
2480               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     r Q n J268

                        CHAPTER 1268
An act to add Section 21301 to the Government Code, relating
       to the retirement of public officers and employees.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 81, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 21301 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   21301. Upon retirement for disability, any state miscel-
laneous member with 20 or more years of state service may
elect to receive credit as state service for purposes of com-
puting his disability retirement allowance, any continuous pe-
riod of military service not in excess of three years terminating
within 10 days of the date he entered state service if (a) he
was employed by a federal or local public agency within 30
days of the time of the commencement of such military service,
 (b) he is not entitled to retirement benefits with respect to
such service in any other public retirement system and (c)
he makes payment at times and in the manner prescribed by
the board of an amount equal to the contributions which
would have been made by him to the system on the basis of
his compensation earnable at the commencement of his state
service.

                        CHAPTER 1269
    An act to amend Section 3501 of the Government Code,
                   relating to firefighters.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 81, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3501 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   3501. As used in this chapter:
   (a) "Employee organization" means any organization
which includes employees of a public agency and which has
as one of its primary purposes representing such employees in
their relations with that public agency.
   (b) "Recognized employee organization" means an em-
ployee organization which has been formally acknowledged by
the public agency as an emploj^ee organization that represents
employees of the public agency.
   (c) Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, "pub-
lic agency" means the State of California, every governmental
subdivision, every district, every public and quasi-public cor-
poration, every public agency and public service corporation
                        1969
Ch   12701                     REGULAR SESSION                   2481

and every town, city, county, city and county and municipal
corporation, whether incorporated or not and whether char-
tered or not. As used in this chapter, "public agency" does
not mean a school district or a county board of education or a
county superintendent of schools or a personnel commission in
a school district having a merit system as provided in Chapter
3 (commencing with Section 13580) of Division 10 of the
Education Code.
   (d) "Public employee" means any person employed by any
public agency, including employees of the fire departments
and fire services of the state, counties, cities, cities and
counties, districts, and other political subdivisions of the state,
excepting those persons elected by popular vote or appointed
to office by the Governor of this state.
   (e) "Mediation" means effort by an impartial third party
to assist in reconciling a dispute regarding wages, hours and
other terms and conditions of employment between representa-
tives of the public agency and the recognized employee organi-
zation or recognized employee organizations through interpre-
tation, suggestion and advice.


                           CHAPTER 1270
An act to amend the title of Chapter 10 (commencing with
  Section 6950) of Division 6 and Sections 6950, 6957, 10507,
  and 10508 of the Education Code, relating to education.
             [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                    Secretary of State August 81, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The title of Chapter 10 (commencing with Sec-
tion 6950), Division 6 of the Education Code is amended to
read:

CHAPTER 10.   EDUCATION OF NONIMMIGRANT CHILDREN, N O N -
  CITIZEN CHILDREN WITHOUT IMMIGRATION STATUS, AND C H I L -
  DREN RESIDING IN CHILDREN'S INSTITUTIONS

  SEC. 2. Section 6950 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
  6950. Whenever a school district provides education in
kindergarten or grades 1 through 12 for nonimmigrant chil-
dren or noncitizen children without immigration status, the
district shall be reimbursed for the actual cost of educating
each such nonimmigrant child or noncitizen child without im-
migration status by the county or city and county in which the
school district is located. For the purposes of this chapter, such
nonimmigrant child or noncitizen child without immigration
2482                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Ch. 1270

 status shall be deemed to be a resident of such county or city
 and county.
    For the purpose of this section a "nonimmigrant child" is
 defined as an alien having a residence in a foreign country
 which he has no intention of abandoning, who is legally ad-
 mitted to the United States as a nonimmigrant student or
 visitor, and who seeks to pursue a course of study in the pub-
 lic schools of this state. For the purpose of this section a "non-
 citizen child without immigration s t a t u s " is defined as a child
living in the United States who is not a citizen of the United
 States, who is without documentary evidence of United States
 immigration status, and who seeks to pursue or is pursuing a
 course of study in the public schools of this state.
    SEC. 3. Section 6957 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
    6957. The State Superintendent of Public Instruction may
furnish the forms and shall prescribe the procedures required
 of school districts and county superintendents of schools under
this chapter, and shall adopt all rules and regulations neces-
sary for carrying out its provisions.
    Such rules and regulations shall require the county superin-
tendent of schools to list the nonimmigrant children and non-
citizen children without immigration status by name and
 address and submit such list to the board of supervisors. The
board of supervisors shall forward a copy of such list to the
appropriate regional office of the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service.
    SEC. 4. Section 10507 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
    10507. Any person, otherwise eligible for admission to any
class or school of a school district of this state, whose parents
are or are not citizens of the United States, whose actual
and legal residence is in a foreign country adjacent to this
state, and who regularly returns within a 24-hour period to
said foreign country may be admitted to the class or school of
the district by the governing board of the district.
    SEC. 5. Section 10508 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    10508. The governing board of the district shall, as a
condition precedent to the admission of any person, under Sec-
tion 10507, require the parent or guardian of such person to
pay to the district an amount not more than sufficient to reim-
burse the district for the total cost of educating the person,
including the total of the amounts expended per pupil for the
current expenses of education, the use of buildings and equip-
ment, the repayment of local bonds and interest payments and
state building loan funds, capital outlay, and transportation
to and from school. The per pupil cost attributable to capital
outlay shall be on the basis of an average expenditure for
the preceding five years. The cost of transportation shall not
exceed ten dollars ($10) per month. Tuition payments shall be
                       1969
Ch. 12711                     REGULAR SESSION                   2483

made in advance for each month or semester during the period
of attendance. If the amount paid is more or less than the total
cost of education and transportation, adjustment shall be made
for the following semester or school year. The attendance of
the pupils shall not be included in computing the average daily
attendance of the class or school for the purpose of obtaining
apportionment of state funds. The school district shall not be
eligible for nonimmigrant or noncitizen reimbursement under
the provisions of Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 6950)
of Division 6 of this code for these students.


                          CHAPTER 1271
   An act to amend Section 31691 of the Government Code,
     relating to the County Employees Retirement Law.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State Augtist 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31691 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   31691. The board of supervisors of any county by ordi-
nance or the governing body of any district under the County
Employees Retirement Law may by ordinance or resolution
provide for the contribution by the county or district from its
funds and not from the retirement fund toward the payment
of all or a portion of the premiums on a policy or certificate of
life insurance or disability insurance issued by an admitted
insurer, or toward the payment of all or part of the consid-
eration for any hospital service or medical service corporation,
including any corporation lawfully operating under Section
9201 of the Corporations Code, contract, or for any combina-
tion thereof, for the benefit of any member heretofore or
hereafter retired or his dependents. At least one of these plans
shall include free choice of physician and surgeon.
   The benefits provided by this section are in addition to any
other benefits provided by this chapter (commencing with
Section 31450).
   The board of retirement may provide on behalf of a member
who has retired for the benefits enumerated herein from the
earnings of the retirement fund which are in excess of the
total interest credited to contributions and reserves plus 1 per-
cent of the total assets of the retirement fund. The board may
provide for the benefits enumerated from like sources when
the board of supervisors or the governing body of a district
has elected to provide these benefits to its active employees,
even though they are not provided to those who have retired
from the service of the county or district.
2484                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQ^   J272

                         CHAPTER 1272
An act to amend Section 5008 of the Penal Code and to amend
  Sections 1752.8 and 4125 of the Welfare and Institutions
  Code, relating to state trust moneys.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filefl with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1752.8 of the "Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   1752.8. The Director of the Youth Authority may deposit
any funds of wards committed to the authority in his posses-
sion in trust with the Treasurer pursuant to Section 16305.3,
Government Code, or, subject to the approval of the Depart-
ment of General Services, may deposit such funds in interest-
bearing bank accounts or invest and reinvest such funds in
any of the securities which are described in Article 1 (com-
mencing with Section 16430), Chapter 3, P a r t 2, Division 4,
Title 2 of the Government Code and for the purposes of de-
posit or investment only may mingle the funds of any ward
with the funds of other wards. The director may deposit the
interest or increment accruing on such funds in a special fund,
to be designated the "Benefit F u n d , " of which he shall be the
trustee. The director may expend the moneys of any such fund
for the education or entertainment of the wards of the Youth
Authority. The funds of a ward committed to the Youth Au-
thority or a person on parole from the Youth Authority shall
not be deposited in interest-bearing bank accounts or invested
and reinvested pursuant to this section, except when author-
ized as follows:
    (a) By a ward over age 21 years;
    (b) By the parent or guardian of a minor ward;
   (c) By the Department of General Services on behalf of a
minor ward who has no parent or guardian.
   Interest shall be paid from the "Benefit F u n d " on the funds
of a ward or person on parole from the Youth Authority upon
the withdrawal of such funds from his account, at a rate not
exceeding 6 percent, and under such conditions, as specified in
the regulations of the Youth Authority.
   SEC. 2. Section 4125 of the "Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   4125. The Director of Mental Hygiene may deposit any
funds of patients in the possession of each hospital admin-
istrator of a state hospital in trust with the Treasurer pur-
suant to Section 16305.3, Government Code, or, subject to the
approval of the Department of General Services, may deposit
such funds in interest-bearing bank accounts or invest and re-
invest such funds in any of the securities which are described
in Article 1 (commencing with Section 16430), Chapter 3,
                       1969
Ch. 12731                     REGULAR SESSION                   2485

Part 2, Division 4, Title 2 of the Government Code and for the
purposes of deposit or investment only may mingle the funds
of any patient with the funds of other patients. The hospital
administrator with the consent of the patient may deposit the
interest or increment on the funds of a patient in the state
hospital in a special fund for each state hospital, to be desig-
nated the "Benefit F u n d , " of which he shall be the trustee.
He may, with the approval of the Director of Mental Hygiene,
expend the moneys in any such fund for the education or
entertainment of the patients of the institution.
   On and after December 1, 1970, the funds of a patient in a
state hospital or a patient on leave of absence from a state hos-
pital shall not be deposited in interest-bearing bank accounts
or invested and reinvested pursuant to this section except
when authorized by the patient; any interest or increment
accruing on the funds of a patient on leave of absence from
a state hospital shall be deposited in his account; any in-
terest or increment accruing on the funds of a patient in a
state hospital shall be deposited in his account, unless such
patient authorizes their deposit in the state hospital's "Bene-
fit F u n d . "
   Any state hospital charges for patient care against the funds
of a patient in the possession of a hospital administrator or
deposited pursuant to this section and which are used to pay
for such care, shall be stated in an itemized bill to the patient.
   SEC. 3. Section 5008 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
   5008. The Director of Corrections shall deposit any funds
of inmates in his possession in trust with the Treasurer pur-
suant to Section 16305.3, Government Code, except that
the Director of Corrections, when specifically authorized on
a separate written form by the inmate and subject to the
approval of the Department of General Services, may deposit
such funds in interest-bearing bank accounts or invest or re-
 invest such funds in any of the securities which are described
 in Article 1 (commencing with Section 16430), Chapter 3, P a r t
 2, Division 4, Title 2 of the Government Code and for the
purposes of deposit or investment only may mingle the funds
 of any inmate with the funds of other inmates. The director
shall deposit the interest or increment accruing on such funds
in the Inmates' Welfare Fund. Any interest or increment
accruing on the funds of a parolee shall be deposited in his
account.


                          C H A P T E R 1273
An act authorizing the conveyance of all lands included within
  Puddingstone State Recreation Area to the County of Los
  Angeles, and stating terms and conditions of such convey-
  ance.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 81, 1969.]
2486               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qfo ^ 2 7 4

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Director of Parks and Eecreation is author-
ized to grant to the County of Los Angeles, all the right, title
and interest of the State of California to all lands included
within the Puddingstone State Recreation Area upon such
conditions as are set forth in Sections 2, 3 and 4 of this act.
   SEC. 2. Within two years from the effective date of this
act, the County of Los Angeles shall cause a master plan for
the development of such land to be prepared, which plan shall
be subject to the approval of the Director of Parks and
Eecreation.
   SEC. 3. The County of Los Angeles shall develop such
land in accordance with the approved master plan.
   SEC. 4. The land conveyed hereunder shall be wholly de-
voted to park and recreational uses.
   SEC. 5. Upon breach of any of the conditions set forth
in Sections 2, 3 and 4 of this act, all right, title, and interest
of the County of Los Angeles in and to all lands granted
by this act shall cease and the lands shall revert and rest in
the state under the administration of the Department of Parks
and Recreation.
   SEC. 6. The provisions of Sections 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this act
shall not apply to any land transferred by the Department of
Parks and Recreation or by the County of Los Angeles to the
Department of Public "Works.


                        CHAPTER 1274
An act to amend Section 14105 of the "Welfare and             Institutions
             Code, relating to medical assistance.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14105 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   14105. The director shall prescribe the policies to be fol-
lowed in the administration of this chapter and the scope of
the services to be provided, and may limit the rates of pay-
ment for such services, and shall adopt such rules and regula-
tions as are necessary for carrying out, not inconsistent with,
the provisions thereof.
   Such policies and regulations shall include rates for pay-
ment for services not rendered under a contract pursuant to
Section 14104. Standards for costs shall be based on payments
of the reasonable cost for such services. Cost reports and other
data submitted by providers to a state agency for the pur-
pose of determining reasonable costs for services or establish-
                       1969
Ch. 1275]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2487

ing rates of payment shall he considered true and correct un-
less audited within eighteen (18) months after July 1, 1969,
the close of the period covered by the report, or after the date
of submission of the original or amended report by the pro-
vider, whichever is later.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the cor-
rection of cost reports or rates of payment when inaccuracies
are determined to be the result of intent to defraud, or when
a delay in the completion of an audit is the result of willful
acts by the provider or inability to reach agreement on the
terms of final settlement.
   Insofar as practical, consistent with the efficient and eco-
nomical administration of this part, the department shall af-
ford recipients of public assistance free choice of arrangements
under which they shall receive health care.
   In establishing the scope of services to be provided, the
director shall provide for recipients at least for a minimum
coverage as defined in Section 14056, and insofar as possible
shall include other health care and related remedial or pre-
ventive services giving priority to those services which are
considered to have the greatest value in preventing or reduc-
ing the likelihood of future high cost medical services.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph,
and in accordance with the intent of this chapter, the director,
with respect to medically indigent persons, may limit, by ap-
propriate classifications, the number of medically indigent
persons eligible, and may limit the scope and kinds of health
care to which such persons are entitled, to the extent necessary
to operate programs under this chapter within the limits of
appropriated funds. When and if necessary, such action shall
be taken by the director with the advice of the Health Review
and Program Council and in ways consistent with the require-
ments of the Federal Social Security Act.


                          CHAPTBE 1275
An act to add Article 4.7 (commencing with Section 1215) to
  Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 1 of the Insurance Code,
  relating to insurance holding companies.
            [Approved by Governor August 30. 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 4.7 (commencing with Section 1215)
is added to Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 1 of the Insurance
Code, to read:
2488                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Qfo 2 2 7 5

           Article 4.7. Insurance Holding Company
                     System Eegulatory Act
    1215. As used in this article, the following terms shall have
the respective meanings hereinafter set forth, unless the con-
text shall otherwise require:
    (a) An "affiliate" of, or person "affiliated" with, a spe-
cific person, is a person that directly, or indirectly, through
one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is
under common control with, the person specified.
    (b) The term " c o n t r o l " includes the terms "controlling,"
"controlled b y , " and "under common control with," and
means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct
or cause the direction of the management and policies of a
person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by
contract other than a commercial contract for goods or non-
management services, or otherwise, unless the power is the re-
sult of an official position with or corporate office held by the
person. Control shall be presumed to exist if any person, di-
rectly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to
vote, or holds proxies representing, more than 10 percent of
the voting securities of any other person. This presumption
may be rebutted by a showing that control does not exist in
fact in accordance with subdivision (i) of Section 1215.4. The
commissioner may, after furnishing all persons in interest
notice and opportunity to be heard, determine that control
exists in fact, notwithstanding the absence of a presumption
to that effect.
    (c) An "insurance holding company system" consists of
two or more affiliated persons, one or more of which is an
insurer.
    (d) " I n s u r e r " shall have the same meaning as set forth
in Section 826 of this code, excluding subdivision (f) of such
section.
    (e) " P e r s o n " is an individual, a corporation, a partnership,
an association, a joint stock company, a business trust, an un-
incorporated organization, or any similar entity, or any com-
bination thereof acting in concert.
    (f) A "subsidiary" of a specified person is an affiliate con-
trolled by such person directly, or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries.
   1215.1. (a) Any domestic insurer, either by itself or in
cooperation with one or more persons, may organize or acquire
one or more subsidiaries subject to the limitations of this sec-
tion.
    (b) In addition to investments in common stock, preferred
stock, debt obligations, and other securities permitted under
all other sections of this chapter, a domestic insurer may also
do one or more of the following:
    (1) Invest, in common stock, preferred stock, debt obliga-
tions, and other securities of one or more subsidiaries, amounts
which do not exceed the lesser of 5 percent of such insurer's
                     1969
Oh. 1275]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2489

assets or 50 percent of such insurer's surplus as regards policy-
holders. However, after such investments, the insurer's surplus
as regards policyholders shall be reasonable in relation to the
insurer's outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial
needs. In calculating the amount of such investments, there
shall be included (A) total net moneys or other consideration
expended and obligations assumed in the acquisition or for-
mation of a subsidiary, including all organizational expenses
and contributions to capital and surplus of such subsidiary
whether or not represented by the purchase of capital stock
or issuance of other securities, and (B) all amounts expended
in acquiring additional common stock, preferred stock, debt
obligations, and other securities and all contributions to the
capital or surplus, of a subsidiary subsequent to its acquisi-
tion or formation;
    (2) If the insurer's total liabilities, as calculated for Na-
tional Association of Insurance Commissioners' annual state-
ment purposes, are less than 10 percent of assets, invest any
amount in common stock, preferred stock, debt obligations,
and other securities of one or more subsidiaries. However,
after such investment the insurer's surplus as regards policy-
holders, considering such investment as if it were a disallowed
asset, shall be reasonable in relation to the insurer's outstand-
ing liabilities and adequate to its financial needs;
    (3) Invest any amount in common stock, preferred stock,
 debt obligations, and other securities of one or more subsidi-
 aries, provided, that each such subsidiary agrees to limit its in-
vestments in any asset so that such investments will not cause
the amount of the total investment of the insurer to exceed any
 of the investment limitations specified in paragraph (1) of this
 subdivision or in this chapter applicable to the insurer. For the
purpose of this paragraph, " t h e total investment of the in-
 surer" shall include (i) any direct investment by the insurer
 in an asset, and (ii) the insurer's proportionate share of any
 investment of an asset by any subsidiary of the insurer, which
 shall be calculated by multiplying the amount of the subsidi-
 ary's investment by the percentage of the insurer's ownership
of such subsidiary.
    (4) With the approval of the commissioner, invest any
amount in common stock, preferred stock, debt obligations, or
other securities of one or more subsidiaries, provided that after
such investment the insurer's surplus as regards policyholders
shall be reasonable in relation to the insurer's outstanding
 liabilities and adequate to its financial needs;
    (5) Invest any amount in the common stock, preferred
stock, debt obligations, or other securities of any subsidiary
 exclusively engaged in holding title to or holding title to and
 managing or developing real or personal property, if after
 considering as a disallowed asset so much of the investment
 as is represented by subsidiary assets which if held directly
 by the insurer would be considered as a disallowed asset, the
2490               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Ch. 1275

 insurer's surplus as regards policyholders shall be reasonable
 in relation to the insurer's outstanding liabilities and adequate
 to its financial needs.
    (c) Investments in common stock, preferred stock, debt ob-
 ligations, or other securities of subsidiaries made pursuant to
 subdivision (b) of this section shall neither limit nor be subject
 to any of the otherwise applicable authorizations, restrictions,
 or prohibitions contained in this part applicable to such in-
 vestments of insurers.
     (d) Whether any investment pursuant to subdivision (b) of
 this section meets the applicable requirements thereof is to be
 determined immediately after such investment is made, taking
 into account the then outstanding principal balance on all pre-
 vious investments in debt obligations, and the value of all
 previous investments in equity securities as of the date they
 were made.
     (e) If an insurer ceases to control a subsidiary, it shall dis-
pose of any investment therein made pursuant to this section
 within three years from the time of the cessation of control, or
within such further time as the commissioner may prescribe,
unless at any time after such investment shall have been made,
such investment shall have met the requirements for investment
 under any other section of this part.
    1215.2. (a) No person shall make a tender offer for, or a
request or invitation for tenders of, or enter into an agree-
ment to exchange securities for or acquire in the open market,
any voting security, or any security convertible into a voting
security, of a domestic insurer or of any other person con-
trolling a domestic insurer, if such other person is not sub-
stantially engaged either directly or through its affiliates in
any businesses other than that of insurance, if, as a result of
the consummation thereof, such person would, directly or in-
directly, acquire control of such insurer, and no person shall
enter into an agreement to merge with or otherwise to acquire
control of a domestic insurer, unless, at the time copies of the
offer or purchase or request or invitation are first published or
sent or given to security holders or the agreement or transac-
tion is entered into, as the case may be, such person has filed
with the commissioner, and has sent to such insurer, a state-
ment containing such of the following information, and such
additional information, as the commissioner may by rule or
regulation prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public
interest or for the protection of policyholders or shareholders:
    (1) The background and identity of all persons by whom or
on whose behalf the purchases or the exchange, merger, or
other acquisition of control are to be effected;
    (2) The source and amount of the funds or other considera-
tion used or to be used in making the purchases or in effecting
the exchange, merger, or other acquisition of control, and, if
any part of such funds or other consideration has been or is to
be borrowed or otherwise obtained for the purpose of making
                     19G9
Oh. 1275]                   REGULAR SESSION                 2491

 the purchases or effecting the exchange, merger, or other ac-
 quisition of control, a description of the transaction and the
names of the parties thereto. However, where a source of funds
is a loan made in the lender's ordinary course of business, if
the person filing such statement so requests, the name of the
lender shall not be made available to the public;
    (3) Any plans or proposals which such persons may have to
liquidate such insurer, to sell its assets or merge it with any
person, or to make any other major change in its business or
corporate structure or management;
   (4) The amount of each class of voting securities or securi-
ties which may be converted into voting securities of such in-
surer or such controlling person which are beneficially owned,
and the amount of each class of voting securities or securities
which may be converted into voting securities of such insurer
or such controlling person concerning which there is a right to
acquire beneficial ownership, by each such person and by each
affiliate of each such person, together with the name and ad-
dress of eaeh such affiliate;
   (5) Information as to any contracts, arrangements, or un-
derstandings with any person with respect to any securities of
such insurer or such controlling person, including, but not
limited to, transfer of any of the securities, joint ventures,
loan or option arrangements, puts or calls, guarantees of loans,
guarantees against loss or guarantees of profits, division of
losses or profits, or the giving or withholding of proxies, nam-
ing the persons with whom such contracts, arrangements, or
understandings have been entered into, and giving the details
thereof.
   All requests or invitations for tenders or advertisements
making a tender offer or requesting or inviting tenders of such
voting securities of such insurer or such controlling person
made by or on behalf of any such person, and a copy of any
such agreement to exchange or otherwise acquire securities or
to merge with or otherwise to acquire control of such insurer,
 shall be filed with the commissioner and sent to such insurer as
a part of such statement and shall contain such of the informa-
tion contained in such statement as the commissioner may by
rule or regulation prescribe. Copies of any additional material
soliciting or requesting such tender offers subsequent to the
initial solicitation or request, and copies of any amendment to
any such agreement, shall contain such information as the
commissioner may by rule or regulation prescribe as necessary
or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
policyholders or shareholders, and shall be filed with the com-
missioner and sent to such insurer not later than the time
 copies of such material are first published or sent or given to
 security holders or such amendment is entered into.
    (b) If the person required to file the statement referred to
 in subdivision (a) of this section is a partnership, limited
 partnership, syndicate, or other group, the commissioner may
2492               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo 1275

require that the information called for by paragraphs (1) to
 (5), inclusive, of subdivision (a) shall be given -with respect
to: (1) each partner of such partnership or limited partner-
ship, (2) each member of such syndicate or group, and (3)
each person who controls such partner or member. If a person
referred to in (1), (2), or (3) of this subdivision is a corpora-
tion or the person required to file the statement referred to in
subdivision (a) is a corporation, the commissioner may require
that the information called for by paragraphs (1) to (5), in-
 clusive, of subdivision (a) shall be given with respect to such
corporation and each officer and director of such corporation
 and each person who is directly or indirectly the beneficial
owner of more than 10 percent of the outstanding voting
 securities of such corporation.
    (c) If any tender offer, request, or invitation for tenders,
 or agreement to exchange or otherwise acquire securities or to
merge or otherwise acquire control referred to in subdivision
 (a) of this section, is proposed to be made by means of a
registration statement under the federal Securities Act of
 1933, or in circumstances requiring the disclosure of similar
information under the federal Securities Exchange Act of
1934, or under a state law requiring similar registration or
disclosure, the person required to file the statement referred
to in subdivision (a) may file that registration statement with
the commissioner as full satisfaction of the requirement in
subdivision (a).
    (d) The purchases, exchanges, mergers, or other acquisi-
tions of control referred to in subdivision (a) of this section
may not be made until the commissioner either approves the
purchases, exchanges, mergers, or other acquisitions of control
within 60 days after the statement required by subdivision (a)
has been filed with him or fails to disapprove such purchases,
exchanges, mergers, or other acquisitions of control within
such 60-day period. The commissioner may disapprove any
such transaction within such 60-day period if he finds any of
the following:
    (1) After the change of control the domestic insurer re-
ferred to in subdivision (a) could not satisfy the requirements
for the issuance of a license to write the line or lines of insur-
ance for which it is presently licensed;
   (2) The purchases, exchanges, mergers, or other acquisi-
tions of control would substantially lessen competition in insur-
ance in this state or create a monopoly therein;
   (3) The financial condition of an acquiring person is such
as might jeopardize the financial stability of the insurer, or
prejudice the interests of its policyholders;
   (4) The plans or proposals which the acquiring person has
to liquidate the insurer, to sell its assets, or to merge it with
any person, or to make any other major change in its business
or corporate structure or management, are not fair and reason-
able to policyholders;
                    1969
Ch. 12751                  REGULAR SESSION                  2493

   (5) The competence, experience, and integrity of those per-
sons who would control the operation of the insurer indicate
that it would not be in the interest of policyholders, or the
public to permit them to do so.
   (e) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
offer for or request or invitation for tenders of any voting
securities, or any agreement to exchange securities for or other-
wise acquire control, if, and to the extent that, the commis-
sioner, by rule or regulation or by order, shall exempt the same
from the provisions of this section as not comprehended within
the purposes thereof.
   1215.3. The following shall be violations of this article:
   (a) The failure to file the statement required under subdi-
vision (a) of Section 1215.2.
   (b) Effectuation or any attempt to effectuate an acquisi-
tion or control of, or merger with, a domestic insurer either
within the 60-day period referred to in subdivision (d) of
Section 1215.2, unless the commissioner has given his approval
thereto, or after disapproval of such acquisition of control or
merger.
   1215.4. (a) Every insurer which is authorized to do busi-
ness in this state and which is a member of an insurance hold-
ing company system shall register with the commissioner, ex-
cept a foreign insurer subject to disclosure requirements and
standards adopted by statute or regulation in the jurisdiction
of its domicile which are substantially similar to those con-
tained in this section. Any insurer which is subject to registra-
tion under this section shall register within 60 days after the
effective date of this article or 15 days after it becomes subject
to registration, whichever is later, unless the commissioner for
good cause shown extends the time for registration, and then
within such extended time. The commissioner may require a
holding company system which is not subject to registration
under this section to furnish a copy of the registration state-
ment or other information filed by such insurance company
with the insurance regulatory authority of domiciliary juris-
diction.
    (b) Every insurer subject to registration shall file a regis-
tration statement on a form provided by the commissioner,
which shall contain current information about the following:
   (1) The capital structure, general financial condition, own-
ership, and management of the insurer and any person con-
trolling such insurer;
   (2) The following agreements in force, relationships subsist-
ing, and transactions currently outstanding between such in-
surer and its affiliates:
    (i) Loans, other investments, or purchases, sales, or ex-
 changes of securities of the affiliates by the insurer or of the
 insurer by its affiliates;
    (ii) Purchases, sales, or exchanges of assets;
    (iii) Transactions not in the ordinary course of business;
2494              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              fQn   J275

   (iv) Guarantees or undertakings for the benefit of an affili-
ate which result in an actual contingent exposure of the in-
surer's assets to liability, other than insurance contracts en-
tered into in the ordinary course of the insurer's business;
   (v) All management and service contracts and all cost-shar-
ing arrangements, other than cost allocation arrangements
based upon generally accepted accounting principles;
   (vi) Reinsurance agreements covering all or substantially
all of one or more lines of insurance of the ceding company.
   (3) Other matters as may be included in registration forms
adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commis-
sioners, to the extent required by the commissioner.
   (e) No information need be disclosed on the registration
statement filed pursuant to subdivision (b) of this section if
such information is not material for the purposes of this arti-
cle. Unless the commissioner by rule, regulation, or order pro-
vides otherwise, sales, purchases, exchanges, loans or exten-
sions of credit, or investments, involving one-half of 1 percent
or less of an insurer's admitted assets, as of the 31st day of
December next preceding, shall not be deemed material for
purposes of this section.
   (d) Each registered insurer shall keep current the informa-
tion required to be disclosed in its registration statement by
reporting all material changes or additions on amendment
forms provided by the commissioner within 15 days after the
end of the month in which it learns of each such change or
addition. However, subject to this subdivision, each registered
insurer shall so report all dividends and other distributions
to shareholders promptly upon the declaration thereof.
   (e) The commissioner shall terminate the registration of
any insurer which demonstrates that it no longer is a member
of an insurance holding company system.
   (f) The commissioner may require or allow two or more
affiliated insurers subject to registration hereunder to file a
consolidated registration statement or consolidated reports
amending their consolidated registration statement or their
individual registration statements.
   (g) The commissioner may allow any insurer which is au-
thorized to do business in this state and which is part of an
insurance holding company system to register on behalf of
any affiliated insurer which is required to register under sub-
division (a) of this section and to file all information and ma-
terial required to be filed under this article.
   (h) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any in-
surer, information, or transaction if and to the extent that the
commissioner by rule, regulation, or order shall exempt the
same from the provisions of this section as not comprehended
within the purposes of this section.
   (i) Any person may file with the commissioner a disclaimer
of affiliation with any authorized insurer or such a disclaimer
may be filed by such insurer or any member of an insurance
                    1969
Ch 12751                   REGULAR SESSION                 2495

holding company system. The disclaimer shall fully disclose all
material relationships and bases for affiliation between such
person and such insurer, as well as the basis for disclaiming
such affiliation. After a disclaimer has been filed, the insurer
shall be relieved of any duty to register or report under this
section which may arise out of the insurer's relationship with
such person unless and until the commissioner disallows such
a disclaimer. The commissioner shall disallow such a disclaimer
only after furnishing all parties in interest with notice and
opportunity to be heard and after making specific findings of
fact to support such disallowance.
   (j) The failure to file a registration statement or any
amendment thereto required by this section within the time
specified for such filing shall be a violation of this article.
   1215.5. (a) Material transactions by registered insurers
with their affiliates shall be subject to each of the following
standards:
   (1) The terms shall be fair and reasonable;
   (2) The books, accounts, and records of each party shall be
so maintained as to clearly and accurately disclose the precise
nature and details of the transactions;
   (3) The insurer's surplus as regards policyholders follow-
ing any dividends or distributions to shareholder affiliates
shall be reasonable in relation to the insurer's outstanding
liabilities and adequate to its financial needs.
   (b) For purposes of this article, in determining whether an
insurer's surplus as regards policyholders is reasonable in re-
lation to the insurer's outstanding liabilities and adequate to
its financial needs, the following factors, among others, shall
be considered:
   (1) The size of the insurer as measured by its assets, capi-
tal and surplus, reserves, premium writings, insurance in force,
and other appropriate criteria;
   (2) The extent to which the insurer's business is diversified
among the several lines of insurance;
   (3) The number and size of risks insured in each line of
business;
   (4) The extent of the geographical dispersion of the in-
surer's insured risks;
   (5) The nature and extent of the insurer's reinsurance pro-
gram;
   (6) The quality, diversification, and liquidity of the in-
surer's investment portfolio;
   (7) The recent past and projected future trend in the size
of the insurer's surplus as regards policyholders;
   (8) The surplus as regards policyholders maintained by
other, comparable insurers ;
   (9) The adequacy of the insurer's reserves;
   (10) The quality and liquidity of investments in subsidi-
aries made pursuant to Section 1215.2. The commissioner may

   79—1954
2496               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQ^. 1 2 7 5

 treat any such investment as a disallowed asset for purposes
 of determining the adequacy of surplus as regards policy-
 holders whenever in his judgment such investment so warrants.
     (c) No insurer subject to registration under Section 1215.4
 shall pay any extraordinary dividend or make any other ex-
 traordinary distribution to its stockholders until 30 days after
 the commissioner has received notice of the declaration thereof
 and has not within such period disapproved such payment, or
 the commissioner shall have approved such payment within
 such 30-day period.
    For purposes of this section, an extraordinary dividend or
 distribution is any dividend or distribution which, together
 with other dividends or distributions made within the preced-
 ing 12 months, exceeds the greater of (1) 10 percent of such
 insurer's company's surplus as regards policyholders as of the
 31st day of December next preceding, or (2) the net gain from
 operations of such insurer company, if such insurer is a life
 insurer or the net investment income, if such insurer is not a
 life insurer, for the 12-month period ending the 31st day of
December next preceding; provided, that the payment of any
 dividend by a title insurer which is not prohibited from
making such payment by the provisions of Section 12373 shall
not be deemed an extraordinary dividend or distribution.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an insurer may
 declare an extraordinary dividend or distribution which is
 conditional upon the commissioner's approval thereof, and
 such a declaration shall confer no rights upon stockholders
 until the commissioner has approved the payment of such divi-
 dend or distribution or until the commissioner has not dis-
 approved such payment within the 30-day period referred in
this subdivision.
    1215.6. (a) Subject to the limitation contained in this sec-
tion, and in addition to the powers which the commissioner has
under Article 4 (commencing with Section 730) of Chapter 1
of this part relating to the examination of insurers, the com-
missioner shall also have the power to order any insurer regis-
tered under Section 1215.4 to produce such records, books, or
other information or papers in the possession of the insurer
or its affiliates as shall be necessary to ascertain the financial
condition or legality of conduct of such insurer.
    (b) The commissioner shall exercise his power under sub-
division (a) only if the examination of the insurer under
Article 4 (commencing with Section 730) of Chapter 1 of this
part is inadequate or the interests of the policyholders of such
insurer are being adversely affected.
    (c) The commissioner may retain at the registered insurer's
expense such attorneys, actuaries, accountants, and other ex-
perts not otherwise a part of the commissioner's staff as shall
be reasonably necessary to assist in the conduct of the exami-
nation under subdivision (a) of this section. Any persons so
                    196
Ch. 1275]                 ° rtEGULiAR SESSION              2497

retained shall be under the direction and control of the com-
missioner and shall act in a purely advisory capacity.
    (d) Each registered insurer producing for examination
records, books, and papers pursuant to subdivision (a) of this
section shall be liable for, and shall pay the expense of, such
examination in accordance with Section 736 of this code.
    1215.7. All information, documents and copies thereof ob-
tained by or disclosed to the commissioner or any other person
in the course of an examination or investigation made pursuant
to Section 1215.4, and all information reported pursuant to
Section 1215.4, shall be given confidential treatment and shall
not be subject to subpoena and shall not be made public by
the commissioner or any other person except to insurance de-
partments of other states without the prior written consent of
the insurance company to which it pertains, unless the com-
missioner, after giving the insurer and its affiliates who would
be affected thereby notice and opportunity to be heard, deter-
mines that the interests of policyholders, shareholders, or the
public will be served by the publication thereof, in which
event he may publish all or any part thereof in such manner
as he may deem appropriate.
    1215.8. The commissioner may, upon notice and opportu-
nity for all interested persons to be heard, issue such rules,
regulations, and orders as shall be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this article.
    1215.9. (a) Whenever it appears to the commissioner that
any insurer or any director, officer, employee, or agent thereof
has committed or is about to commit a violation of this article
or of any rule, regulation, or order issued by the commissioner
hereunder, the commissioner may apply to the superior court
for the county in which the principal office of the insurer is
located, or if such insurer has no such office in this state,
then to the Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles,
or for the City and County of San Francisco, for an order
 enjoining such insurer or such director, officer, employee, or
 agent thereof from violating or continuing to violate this ar-
 ticle or any such rule, regulation, or order, and for such other
 equitable relief as the nature of the case and the interests of
 the insurer's policyholders, creditors, and shareholders or the
 public may require.
     (b) No security which is the subject of any agreement or
 arrangement regarding acquisition, or which is acquired or to
 be acquired in contravention of the provisions of this article
 or of any rule, regulation, or order issued by the commissioner
 hereunder, may be voted at any shareholders' meeting, or may
 be counted for quorum purposes, and any action of share-
 holders requiring the vote of an affirmative percentage of
 shares may be taken as though such securities were not issued
 and outstanding. If an insurer or the commissioner has reason
 to believe that any security of the insurer has been or is about
2498               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ J275

 to be acquired in contravention of the provisions of this article
 or of any rule, regulation, or order issued by the commissioner
 hereunder, the insurer or the commissioner may apply to the
 Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles or for the City
 and County of San Francisco or to the superior court for the
 county in which the insurer has its principal place of business
 for equitable relief to enjoin the voting of any such security
 or to void any vote of such security already cast, at any meet-
 ing of shareholders.
    1215.10. Whenever it appears to the commissioner that any
 insurer or any director, officer, employee or agent thereof has
 committed a willful violation of this article, the commissioner
 may cause criminal proceedings to be instituted in the county
 in which the principal office of the insurer is located, or if
 such insurer has no such office in the state then by the Attor-
 ney General against such insurer or the responsible director,
 officer, employee, or agent thereof. Any insurer which willfully
 violates this article shall be fined not more than ten thousand
 dollars ($10,000). Any individual who willfully violates this
 article shall be fined not more than three thousand dollars
  ($3,000) or, if such willful violation involves the deliberate
 perpetration of a fraud upon the commissioner, imprisoned
 not more than two years, or both.
    1215.11. Whenever it appears to the commissioner that any
 person has committed a violation of this article which so im-
 pairs the financial condition of a domestic insurer as to
 threaten insolvency or make the further transaction of busi-
 ness by it hazardous to its policyholders, creditors, share-
 holders, or the public, then the commissioner may proceed as
 provided in Article 14 (commencing with Section 1010) of
 Chapter 1 of this part to take possession of the property of
 such domestic insurer and to conduct the business thereof.
    1215.12. Whenever it appears to the commissioner that any
person has committed a violation of this article which makes
the continued operation of an insurer contrary to the interests
of policyholders or the public, the commissioner may, after
giving notice and an opportunity to be heard, suspend, revoke,
or refuse to renew such insurer's license or authority to do
business in this state for such period as he finds is required
for the protection of policyholders or the public.
    1215.13. All laws and parts of laws of this state incon-
sistent with this article are hereby superseded with respect to
matters covered by this article.
    1215.14. If any provision of this article or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the in-
validity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this article which can be given effect without the invalid pro-
vision or application, and for this purpose the provisions of
this article are separable.
                      196D
Ch 1277]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2490

                         CHAPTER 1276
    An act to authorize the transfer and retention of units
        and portions thereof of the state park system.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. The Director of Parks and Recreation is hereby-
authorized to transfer fee title or any lesser interest in the
park units or portions thereof described in Sections 2, 3, 4,
 5 and 6 of this act upon such terms and conditions as the
Director of Parks and Recreation determines are in the best
interest of the state park system.
   SEC. 2. Lummis Home State Historical Monument may be
transferred to the City of Los Angeles.
   SEC. 3. All or a portion of Redondo State Beach may be
transferred to the City of Redondo Beach.
   SEC. 4. A portion of San Clemente State Beach may be ex-
changed for lands owned by the San Clemente Inn.
   SEC. 5. A portion of Doheny State Beach may be ex-
changed for lands owned by the Orange County Harbor Dis-
trict.
   SEC. 6. A portion of Palomar Mountain State Park may
be exchanged for adjacent privately owned lands.
   SEC. 7. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Director of Parks and Recreation is authorized to retain all
real property presently within the San Francisco Maritime
State Historic Park within the state park system for a period
of two years from the effective date of this act.


                         CHAPTER 1277
 An act to add Sections 23358.2 and 24070.5 to the Business
    and Professions Code, relating to alcoholic beverages.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 23358.2 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
   23358.2. Notwithstanding any other provision of this divi-
sion, a winegrower or brandy manufacturer, at his licensed
premises where the sale of wine or brandy for consumption off
the premises is authorized or permitted, may sell only wine or
brandy which is produced or bottled by such licensee, or wine
or brandy which is produced for or is produced and packaged
for such licensee, and which is sold under a brand name owned
2500              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      \Ch. 1278

bj such licensee. This section shall become operative on July
1,1970.
   SEC. 2. Section 24070.5 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   24070.5. When a winegrower has failed to carry on busi-
ness actively, pursuant to a winegrower's license, for a period
of one year, such winegrower's license, without regard to when
it was originally issued, may be transferred only to a person
who qualifies as a winegrower, as denned in Sections 23013
and 23358 of this code.

                        CHAPTER 1278
 An act to amend Section 1427 of the Penal Code, relating to
                       vehicle offenses.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1427 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   1427. (a) When a complaint is presented to a judge of an
inferior court of the commission of a public offense appearing
to be triable in his court, he must, if satisfied therefrom that
the offense complained of has been committed and that there
is reasonable ground to believe that the defendant has com-
mitted it, issue a warrant, for the arrest of the defendant.
   (b) Such warrant of arrest and proceedings upon it shall
be in conformity to the provisions of this code regarding war-
rants of arrest, and it may be in the following form:
   County of
   The people of the State of California, to any peace officer
in this state:
   Complaint upon oath having been this day made before me
that the offense of             (designating it generally) has
been committed and accusing                (name of defendant)
thereof you are therefore commanded forthwith to arrest the
above-named defendant and bring him forthwith before the
           court of            (stating full title of court) at
            (naming place).
   Witness my hand and the seal of said court this
day of           , 19__.
             (Signed).

                                 Judge of said court
  If it appears that the offense complained of has been com-
mitted by a corporation, no warrant of arrest shall issue, but
the judge must issue a summons substantially in the form pre-
scribed in Section 1391. Such summons must be served at the
time and in the manner designated in Section 1392 except that
                        1869
Ch. 1279]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2501

if the offense complained of is a violation of the Vehicle Code
or a local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Vehicle Code,
such summons may be served by deposit by the clerk of the
court in the United States mail of an envelope enclosing the
summons, which envelope shall be addressed to a person au-
thorized to accept service of legal process on behalf of the de-
fendant, and which envelope shall be mailed by registered mail
or certified mail with a return receipt requested. Promptly
upon such mailing, the clerk of the court shall execute a cer-
tificate of such mailing and place it in the file of the court for
that case. At the time stated in the summons the corporation
may appear by counsel and answer the complaint. If it does
not appear, a plea of not guilty must be entered, and the same
proceedings had therein as in other cases.


                           CHAPTER 1279
An act to amend Section 40000 of the Vehicle Code, to add
  Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 3901) to Division 2
  of the Public Utilities Code, to add Chapter 6 (commencing
  with Section 16560) to Division 7 of the Vehicle Code, and
  to repeal Sections 3810, 3811, and 3812 of the Public Utili-
  ties Code, relating to highway carriers.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 3810 of the Public Utilities Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 2. Section 3811 of the Public Utilities Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 3. Section 3812 of the Public Utilities Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 4. Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 3901) is
added to Division 2 of the Public Utilities Code, to read:
         CHAPTER 2.        INTERSTATE HIGHWAY CARRIERS

       Article     1.    General Provisions and Definitions
   3901. This chapter may be cited as the "Interstate High-
way Carriers' Eegistration A c t . "
   3902. This chapter shall not be construed as adopting
requirements for the registration of interstate highway car-
riers in excess of the standards for registration promulgated
under the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act.
   3903. I n the administration of this chapter the commission
shall adhere to the standards promulgated pursuant to Section
202(b)(2) of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 United States
Code, Sec. 3021(b) ( 2 ) ) .
2502               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              rQfa 1 2 7 9

  3904. Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions
and general provisions set forth in Chapter 1 shall govern the
construction of this chapter.

                    Article 2.   Eegistration
     3910. (a) No highway carrier shall engage in any inter-
 state transportation of property for compensation by motor
 vehicle on any public highway in this state without first having
 registered such operation with the commission as follows:
     (1) When the operation requires authority from the In-
 terstate Commerce Commission under the Interstate Com-
 merce Act, a copy of such authority pertaining to this state
 shall be filed with the application for registration.
     (2) If the operation does not require authority from the
 Interstate Commerce Commission under the Interstate Com-
 merce Act, an affidavit of such exempt status shall be filed
 with the application for registration.
     (b) Registration shall be granted for one year upon the fil-
 ing of such application and the payment of the fee as re-
 quired by this article, conditioned upon compliance with the
 other provisions of this chapter.
     (c) Eegistration shall be renewed annually upon the filing
 of an application for renewal and the payment of the renewal
 fee as required by this article, conditioned upon continued com-
 pliance with the other provisions of this chapter.
     3911. A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be paid to
 the commission for the filing of the initial registration and a
 fee of ten dollars ($10) shall be paid to the cdmmission for
 filing the annual renewal application. These fees may be
 waived pursuant to any agreement or arrangement of the
Reciprocity Commission made pursuant to Section 8000 of the
 Vehicle Code.
    3912. Highway carriers engaged in interstate transporta-
tion of property for compensation by motor vehicle upon any
public highway in this state who, prior to the effective date of
this act, have registered their authority from the Interstate
Commerce Commission with the commission pursuant to Sec-
tion 3810 shall not be required to file another initial applica-
tion as prescribed in subsection (1) of subdivision (a) of
Section 3910, but shall only be required to file an application
for renewal as prescribed in subdivision (c) of Section 3910,
but such renewal application shall not be granted until the
applicant shall have complied with all other provisions of
this chapter.
                       Article 3. Insurance
   3920. Registration shall not be granted to any carrier
exempt from regulation by the Interstate Commerce Com-
mission until there is filed with and accepted by the commis-
sion, in such form as it may prescribe, a currently effective
                    1969
Ch. 1279]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2503

certificate or certificates of insurance or a surety bond or
bonds evidencing bodily injury, property damage and cargo
liability coverage not less than the minimum prescribed for
intrastate highway carriers regulated by the commission, or
such evidence of qualification of the carrier as a self-insurer
as may be authorized by the commission under the provisions
of Section 3632.

        Article 4. Agent to Receive Service of Process
   3930. Registration shall not be granted to any carrier
exempt from regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commis-
sion until there is filed with and accepted by the commission,
in such form as it may prescribe, a currently effective designa-
tion of a local agent to receive service of process.

                  Article 5.    Identification
  3940. The commission shall prescribe or adopt suitable
means of identification of the vehicles operated by carriers
granted registration under this chapter.

               Article 6. Fines and Penalties
   3950. Any person or corporation who violates the pro-
visions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is
punishable as provided in Chapter 6 (commencing with Sec-
tion 16560) of Division 7 of the Vehicle Code.
   3951. The Department of Motor Vehicles and the Board of
Equalization shall furnish information from their records to
assist the Public Utilities Commission and the Department
of the California Highway Patrol in the effective enforcement
of this act.
   SEC. 5. Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 16560) is
added to Division 7 of the Vehicle Code, to read:

         CHAPTER 6.    INTERSTATE HIGHWAY CARRIERS

   16560. Any person or corporation who operates or causes
to be operated on the highways of this state any motor vehicle
in the transportation of property for compensation in inter-
state commerce without having first complied with the require-
ments of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 3901) of Divi-
sion 2 of the Public Utilities Code is guilty of a misdemeanor,
and is punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dol-
lars ($500), or by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than three months, or both.
   SEC. 6. Section 40000 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   40000. I t is unlawful and constitutes an infraction for any
person to violate, or to fail to comply with, any provision of
this code, or any local ordinance adopted pursuant to this code,
except:
2504               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Q^ J279

   (a) A violation expressly declared to be a felony, or a public
offense which is punishable either as a felony or misdemeanor.
   (b) A violation of any of the following provisions, which
shall constitute a misdemeanor:
   Section 20, relating to false statements.
   Section 27, relating to impersonating a member of the Cali-
fornia Highway Patrol.
   Section 31, relating to giving false information.
   Section 2800, relating to failure to obey an officer's lawful
order or submit to a lawful inspection.
   Section 2801, relating to failure to obey a fireman's lawful
order.
   Section 2803, relating to unlawful vehicle or load.
   Section 5901, relating to dealers giving notice.
   Section 10501, relating to false report of vehicle theft.
   Sections 10750 and 10751, relating to altered or defaced
vehicle identifying numbers.
   Section 10851.5, relating to theft of binder chains.
   Sections 10852 and 10853, relating to injuring or tampering
with a vehicle.
   Section 10854, relating to unlawful use of stored vehicle.
   Division 5 (commencing with Section 11100), relating to
occupational licensing and business regulations.
   Section 12500(a), relating to unlicensed drivers.
   Section 12951(b), relating to refusal to display license.
   Section 13004, relating to unlawful use of identification card.
   Section 14601, relating to driving when suspended.
   Section 14601.1, relating to driving when suspended.
   Section 14610, relating to unlawful use of driver's license.
   Section 15501, relating to use of false or fraudulent license
by minor.
   Section 16560, relating to interstate highway carriers.
   Section 20002, relating to duties at accidents.
   Division 11 (commencing with Section 21000) except Chap-
ters 1 (commencing with Section 21000), 9 (commencing with
Section 22500), 10 (commencing with Section 22650), and 11
 (commencing with Section 22950).
   Division 14 (commencing with Section 31600), relating to
transportation of explosives.
   Division 14.5 (commencing with Section 33000), relating to
transportation of radioactive materials.
   Division 14.7 (commencing with Section 34001), relating t<?
flammable liquids.
   Section 34506(a), relating to transportation of hazardous
materials.
   Section 40005, relating to owner's responsibility.
   Section 40504, relating to false signatures.
   Section 40508, relating to failure to appear or to pay fine.
   Section 40519, relating to failure to appear.
   Section 42003, relating to violation of a written promise.
   Section 42005, relating to failure to attend traffic school.
                     1969
Ch. 12791                   REGULAR SESSION                  2505

    SEC. 7. Section 40000 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
    40000. It is unlawful and constitutes an infraction for any
person to violate, or to fail to comply with, any provision of
this code, or any local ordinance adopted pursuant to this code,
except -.
    (a) A violation expressly declared to be a felony, or a public
offense which is punishable either as a felony or misdemeanor.
    (b) A violation of any of the following provisions, which
shall constitute a misdemeanor •.
    Section 20, relating to false statements.
    Section 27, relating to impersonating a member of the Cali-
fornia Highway Patrol.
    Section 31, relating to giving false information.
    Section 2800, relating to failure to obey an officer's lawful
order or submit to a lawful inspection.
    Section 2801, relating to failure to obey a fireman's lawful
order.
    Section 2803, relating to unlawful vehicle or load.
    Section 2815, relating to failure to obey a crossing guard's
traffic signal or direction.
    Section 5901, relating to dealers giving notice.
    Section 10501, relating to false report of vehicle theft.
    Sections 10750 and 10751, relating to altered or defaced
vehicle identifying numbers.
    Section 10851.5, relating to theft of binder chains.
    Sections 10852 and 10853, relating to injuring or tampering
with a vehicle.
    Section 10854, relating to unlawful use of stored vehicle.
    Division 5 (commencing with Section 11100), relating to
occupational licensing and business regulations.
    Section 12500(a), relating to unlicensed drivers.
    Section 12951(b), relating to refusal to display license.
    Section 13004, relating to unlawful use of identification card.
    Section 14601, relating to driving when suspended.
    Section 14601.1, relating to driving when suspended.
    Section 14610, relating to unlawful use of driver's license.
    Section 15501, relating to use of false or fraudulent license
 by minor.
    Section 16560, relating to interstate highway carriers.
     Section 20002, relating to duties at accidents.
     Division 11 (commencing with Section 21000) except Chap-
 ters 1 (commencing with Section 21000), 9 (commencing with
 Section 22500), 10 (commencing with Section 22650), and 11
  (commencing with Section 22950).
     Division 14 (commencing with Section 31600), relating to
 transportation of explosives.
     Division 14.5 (commencing with Section 33000), relating to
 transportation of radioactive materials.
     Division 14.7 (commencing with Section 34001), relating to
 flammable liquids.
2506                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     r ^   J£80

   Section 34506(a), relating to transportation of hazardous
materials.
   Section 40005, relating to owner's responsibility.
   Section 40504, relating to false signatures.
   Section 40508, relating to failure to appear or to pay fine.
   Section 40519, relating to failure to appear.
   Section 42003, relating to violation of a written promise.
   Section 42005, relating to failure to attend traffic school.
   SEC. 8. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 40000 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this bill
and S.B. 937 are enacted, that both amendments be given ef-
fect and incorporated in Section 40000 in the form set forth in
Section 7 of this act. Therefore, in the event S.B. 937 is en-
acted and amends Section 40000, Section 7 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 40000 as
amended by S.B. 937 becomes operative, and at that time, Sec-
tion 40000 of the Vehicle Code as amended by Section 6 of
this act is repealed.

                          CHAPTER 1280
An act to amend Section 110 and the title of Chapter 4 (com-
  mencing with Section 500) of Division 1 of, and to add
  Article 3 (commencing with Section 540) to Chapter 4 of
  Division 1 of, the Financial Code, relating to banks.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 110 of the Financial Code is amended
to read:
   110. "Office" includes head office, branch office, and any
other authorized place of business of a bank.
  " H e a d office" means the principal place of business of a
bank.
  SEC. 2. The title of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
500) of Division 1 of the Financial Code is amended to read:
       CHAPTER 4.    BRANCH OFFICES AND OTHER PLACES
                         OF BUSINESS

   SEC. 3. Article 3 (commencing with Section 540) is added
to Chapter 4 of Division 1 of the Financial Code, to read:

             Article 3.    Other Places of Business
   540. As used in this article, "place of business" means any
place of business of a bank other than a head office, a branch
office, or a place of business consented to by the superintendent
pursuant to Section 1110 of this code.
                        1969
Ch. 1281]                      REGULAR SESSION                  £507

   541. No bank shall establish or maintain a place of business
unless it is authorized to do so by the superintendent.
   542. An application for authority to establish and maintain
 a place of business shall be in such form and contain such in-
formation as the superintendent may prescribe, and shall be
accompanied by a fee of one hundred dollars ($100).
   543. The superintendent may give or withhold his approval
of an application in his discretion, but he shall not approve the
application until he has ascertained to his satisfaction that the
public convenience and advantage will be promoted by the
proposed place of business.
   544. When the superintendent has approved an application
and the applicant bank has paid an additional fee of fifty dol-
lars ($50), the superintendent shall issue a certificate in dupli-
cate authorizing such bank to establish and maintain the place
of business. Such certificate shall specify the conditions, if
any, under which the place of business may be established and
maintained and the place where it will be located. The superin-
tendent shall place one copy of such certificate on file with the
department. The superintendent shall transmit one copy of
such certificate to the applicant bank, and such bank shall dis-
play such copy in a conspicuous place in the place of business.
   545. The approval of an application to establish and main-
tain a place of business shall be revoked by operation of law if
the applicant bank does not establish and maintain such place
of business within one year after the date of such approval.
However, for good cause on written application made before
such approval is revoked and accompanied by a fee of fifty
dollars ($50), the superintendent may extend for additional
periods not in excess of one year each the time within which
such place of business may be established and maintained.
   546. With the prior written approval of the superintendent,
a bank may change the location of a place of business from one
location to another in the same vicinity. An application for
such approval shall be accompanied by a fee of fifty dollars
 ($50).
   547. With the prior written approval of the superintend-
ent, a bank may close or discontinue the operation of a place
of business.

                          CHAPTER 1281
An act to amend Section 1756 of, and to add Section 1756.2
  to, the Financial Code, relating to foreign banking corpora-
  tions.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION    1.   Section 1756 of the Financial Code is amended
to read:
2508                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                 rQJj X281

    1756. (a) A foreign corporation which is authorized by li-
cense under Section 1754 may transact in this state the business
of buying, selling, paying, or collecting bills of exchange, of
 issuing letters of credit, of receiving money for transmission
 by draft, check, cable or otherwise, and of making loans.
     (b) A foreign corporation organized under the laws of an-
 other state of the United States of America shall not accept
 deposits in this state.
     (c) A foreign corporation organized under the laws of a
foreign country may transact in this state the business of
accepting deposits if under the laws of such foreign country
a bank or trust company (organized under the laws of the
United States or a state thereof) may be authorized to main-
tain either a branch or agency or may be authorized to own
all the shares (except for directors' qualifying shares) of a
banking organization organized under the laws of such foreign
country and if it has complied with all of the requirements
 of Section 1751 and 1756.1. In this subdivision "foreign coun-
t r y " includes, but is not limited to, any territory of the
United States, Puerto Kico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
    SEC. 2. Section 1756.2 is added to the Financial Code,
 to read:
    1756.2. (a) In this section:
     (1) "Foreign s t a t e " means any foreign government or any
 department, district, province, county, possession, or other
 similar governmental organization or subdivision of a foreign
 government, and any agency or instrumentality of any such
 foreign government or of any such organization or subdivision.
     (2) " P e r s o n " means any person, firm, partnership, associa-
 tion, corporation, company, syndicate, estate, trust, business
 trust, or organization of any kind, or any branch or division
 thereof.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 1756 and
1756.1 of this code, a foreign banking corporation organized
under the laws of a foreign state may transact in this state
the business of accepting deposits from any foreign state or
from any person which resides, is domiciled, and maintains
its principal place of business in a foreign state, if:
    (1) Such foreign banking corporation has complied with all
of the requirements of Section 1751 of this code; and
    (2) Such foreign banking corporation has received from
the superintendent his written approval to transact such busi-
ness in this state.
    (c) A foreign banking corporation which transacts such
business in this state shall, with respect to business transacted
by it in this state, comply with and be subject to the provisions
of Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 750), Chapter 7 (com-
mencing with Section 850), Chapter 8 (commencing with Sec-
tion 952), and Article 2 (commencing with Section 3370) of
Chapter 18 of this division applicable to banks, the provisions
of Article 1 (commencing with Section 1200), except Sections
                       1969
Ch. 1282]                     REGULAR SESSION                     2509

1207 and 1209, of Chapter 10 of this division applicable to
commercial banks, and the provisions of Article 2 (commenc-
ing with Section 1310), Article 3 (commencing with Section
1330), Article 4 (commencing with Section 1335), and Article
5 (commencing with Section 1340) of Chapter 10a of this divi-
sion applicable to nondepartmental banks.


                          CHAPTEK 1282
An act to amend Section 16643 of the Education              Code, and
  to amend Section 16151 of the Welfare and                 Institutions
  Code, relating to preschool programs.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 16643 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   16643. The governing board of any school district, or the
county superintendent of schools with the approval of the
county board of education, may establish and maintain pre-
school educational programs for all children between the ages
of three and six years who are not currently enrolled in the
public schools residing within the district or within the juris-
diction of a county superintendent of schools. If a preschool
educational program authorized by Chapter 2.5 (commencing
with Section 16150) of Part 4 of Division 9 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code has been established in the district, a
preschool educational program established under this section
may be operated in conjunction with that program, provided
that the minimum educational standards prescribed pursuant
to Section 16641 are met.
   The governing board of a school district operating and main-
taining a preschool educational program pursuant to this sec-
tion may include in its budget any amount which it deems
necessary for the operation of the program.
   SEC. 2. Section 16151 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   16151. The State Department of Social Welfare shall enter
into a contract with the Department of Education to provide
for a statewide system of preschool programs of an educa-
tional value, to be established by any eligible local public or
private nonprofit agency which submits an application there-
for.
   The State Department of Social Welfare shall, in coopera-
tion and consultation with the Department of Education, de-
termine the areas of the state in which the approval and es-
tablishment of such preschool educational programs is most
likely to fulfill the intent of this chapter.
2510               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     fQk. 1283

   Any application to operate and maintain a preschool edu-
cational program pursuant to this chapter may include a pro-
vision for the use of facilities owned and maintained by an
eligible local nonprofit private agency, when such facilities
may be necessary for the provision of a preschool educational
program in the area to be served. Children between the ages
of three and six years who are not currently enrolled in the
public schools shall be eligible to participate in these preschool
programs, provided that such instruction is deemed to be in the
best interests of the child. Special priority shall be given to
children from families of low income. Special priority shall
also be given to children from families in which English is not
the language primarily used in the home in order that they
may develop that degree of English facility necessary to
profit from school instruction.
   All local preschool educational programs operated pursuant
to any contract herein authorized shall be available to any
child otherwise eligible pursuant to the procedures established
by this chapter and by the contract regardless of race, reli-
gion or ethnic background; and no such local preschool pro-
gram shall be used, in whole or in part, for religious worship
or instruction. No funds herein provided may be used for the
general support of any private or sectarian school system.


                        CHAPTEE 1283
An act to add Part 2.5 (commencing with Section 19800) to
  Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and to amend
  Sections 10557, 10605, 10801, and 10803 of, and to repeal
  Sections 10901, 10902, 10903, and 10904 of, the Welfare
  and Institutions Code, relating to the State Personnel Board.
          tApproved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Part 2.5 (commencing with Section 19800) is
added to Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to read:

       PART 2.5. F E D E R A L GRANT-IN-AID MERIT
                SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
                 CHAPTER 1.      ADMINISTRATION

   19800. The State Personnel Board is hereby vested with the
jurisdiction and responsibility of establishing and maintaining
personnel standards on a merit basis and administering merit
systems for local government agencies where such merit sys-
tems of employment are required by statute as a condition of a
state-funded program or a federal grant-in-aid program estab-
lished under the following federal laws: Social Security Act, as
                     1969
Ch. 1283]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2511

 amended; the Public Health Service Act; and the Federal Civil
 Defense Act, as amended.
   19801. For the purposes of administration of state or fed-
 erally supported programs under Section 19800, the State
 Personnel Board shall, by regulation, establish and maintain
 personnel standards on a merit basis for local agencies (in-
 cluding therein standards of qualifications, competency, edu-
 cation, experience, tenure, and compensation) necessary for
proper and efficient administration, and to assure state con-
 formity with applicable federal requirements.
   19802. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any local
agency from establishing its own merit system and determin-
 ing thereunder the personnel standards to be applicable to its
employees, but as to employees engaged in administering state
and federally supported programs under Section 19800, such
local systems and standards shall be subject to approval and
review by the board to the extent necessary to qualify for
federal funds.
   19803. The merit system for employees engaged in admin-
istering programs under Section 19800 in a local agency not
administering its own merit system approved under this chap-
ter shall be administered by the board. This may include, but
is not limited to, recruitment, examination, certification, ap-
pointment and other transactions, position classification, com-
pensation standards, and disciplinary actions. As part of such
administration, the board shall hear and decide appeals of any
applicant for employment or officer or employee from the deci-
sion of a local agency or the board's executive officer affecting
the employment rights of such persons. Any decision rendered
in such an appeal shall be binding upon the local agency.
   19804. In the exercise of functions under this chapter, the
board shall exercise no authority with respect to the selection,
tenure of office and compensation of any individual employed
in accordance with established standards.
   19805. The board shall by regulation, establish and admin-
ister procedures, including provisions for investigations and
hearings, to determine whether a particular merit system is in
conformity with the -standards established or approved by the
board pursuant to Section 19801. In conducting any hearing
provided by such procedures, or in conducting an appeal hear-
ing under Section 19803, the board shall have the same author-
ity as it does in conducting hearings pursuant to Sections
18671 to 18680, inclusive, of this code.
   19806. "When the board, after hearing, determines that a
local merit system is not in conformity with the established
standards, it shall notify such local agency and appropriate
state officer in writing of its decision. If the governing body
of the local agency does not bring the system into conformity
within 60 days of notification of the board's decision, or within
such longer period as the board determines, the board shall
certify to the state officer having responsibility for the overall
2512              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQfa 1 2 8 3

administration of the program, pursuant to which the grant-in-
aid requiring such merit system was made, that the particular
merit system is not in conformity with established standards.
   19807. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, upon
receiving certification of the board, pursuant to Section 19806,
the appropriate state officer shall take such action against the
local agency as permitted by law or as necessary to obtain
compliance without an additional administrative hearing being
held by such officer.
   19808. Local agencies shall provide such information and
reports relating to merit system administration as are required
by the board.
   19809. State departments having responsibility for the
overall administration of grant-in-aid programs under Section
19800 shall reimburse the board for all costs incurred by the
board in administering this chapter. The board may equitably
prorate such costs among such departments.
   19810. As used in this chapter, "local agency" means any
city, county, city and county, district, or other subdivision of
the state, or any independent instrumentality thereof.
   SEC. 2. Section 10557 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   10557. No person, while holding the office of director or
member of the State Social Welfare Board, shall be a trustee,
manager, director, or other officer or employee of any agency
performing any function supervised by the department or any
institution which is subject to examination, inspection, or su-
pervision by the department; nor shall any member of the
State Social Welfare Board hold any other office or employ-
ment in the department.
   SEC. 3. Section 10605 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   10605. If the director considers a county director to be
failing, in a substantial manner, to comply with any provision
of this code or any regulation, he shall put the county director
on written notice to that effect, and shall give a copy of the
notice to the board of supervisors.
   If within 60 days the county director fails to give reasonable
assurance that he is complying and will continue to comply
with the laws and regulations, the director shall order the
county to appear at a hearing, before the director, with the
State Social Welfare Board, to show cause why the department
should not take action to secure compliance. The county shall
be given at least 30 days' notice of such hearing. The di-
rector shall consider the case on the record established at the
hearing, and the advice of the State Social Welfare Board,
and, within 30 days, shall render proposed findings and a
proposed decision on the issues. The proposed findings and
decision shall be submitted to the county, and the county shall
have an opportunity to appear within 10 days at such time #nd
place as may be fixed by the director, for the purpose of pre-
                    1969
Ch   1283]                 REGULAR SESSION                   2513

senting oral arguments respecting the proposed findings and
 decision. Thereupon the director shall make his final findings
and decision.
    If the director determines that there is a failure on the
 part of the county to comply with the provisions of this code
or the established regulations, or if the State Personnel Board
 certifies to the director that a county is not in conformity
with established merit system standards under P a r t 2.5 (com-
mencing with Section 19800) of Division 5 of Title 2 of the
Government Code, and that administrative sanctions are nec-
essary to secure compliance, the department may invoke any of
the following sanctions:
    (a) Withhold part or all of state and federal funds from
such county until the county shall make a showing to the di-
rector of compliance; or
    (b) Assume, temporarily, direct responsibility for the ad-
ministration of any or all state-aided public social service pro-
grams in such county until the county shall provide reasonable
assurance to the director of its intention and ability to comply
with such laws and regulations. During such period of state
administrative responsibility for county programs, the director
or his authorized representative shall have all of the powers
and responsibilities of the county director, with the exception
that he shall not be subject to the authority of the board of
supervisors; or
    (c) Bring an action in mandamus or such other action in
court as may be appropriate to compel compliance. Any such
action shall be entitled to a preference in setting a date for
a hearing.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving the
board of supervisors of the responsibility to provide funds
necessary for the continued public social services required by
law.
   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as pre-
venting a county from seeking judicial review of action taken
by the director pursuant to this section under Section 1094.5
of the Code of Civil Procedure or, except in cases arising
under Sections 10962 and 10963, from seeking injunctive re-
lief when deemed appropriate.
   SEC. 4. Section 10801 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   10801. A county director shall be appointed in each county
by the board of supervisors or other agency designated by
county charter, subject to either local merit system standards
or to standards prescribed under the merit system adminis-
tered by the State Personnel Board.
   The county director shall at all times be under the general
direction and supervision of the board of supervisors, unless
otherwise provided by county charter.
   SEC. 5. Section 10803 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
2514               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     rQfo. 1 2 8 4

   10803. The county director shall:
   (a) Serve as the executive and administrative officer of the
county department. The county director may delegate his
powers and functions to any member of his staff.
   (b) Establish such administrative units as he may deem
necessary or desirable for the proper and efficient administra-
tion of the county department, and employ such personnel
as may be authorized subject to merit system regulations and
the state standards established pursuant to Section 19801 of
the Government Code.
   (c) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law,
and, except for Section 10801, such other administrative and
executive duties pertaining to the public social services as may,
by other provisions of law, be imposed upon the board of su-
pervisors.
   (d) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
board of supervisors.
   SEC. 6. Section 10901 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 10902 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 10903 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 10904 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 10. Any officers and employees of the Department of
Social Welfare performing a function on the effective date of
this section that is transferred to the State Personnel Board,
shall, pursuant to Section 19370 of the Government Code, be
transferred to the State Personnel Board.
   SEC. 11. All regulations heretofore adopted by the State
Department of Social Welfare under Welfare and Institutions
Code Section 10901 shall remain in effect and shall be enforce-
able by the State Personnel Board until amended, repealed, or
otherwise superseded by regulations adopted by the State Per-
sonnel Board.
   SEC. 12. This act shall become operative January 1, 1970.


                        CHAPTER 1284
          An act to add Section 12656.7 to the Water
                Code, relating to flood control.
          [Approved by Governor August 80, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION   1.   Section 12656.7 is added to the Water Code, to
read:
                       1969
Oh. 1285]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2515

   12656.7. The Eeclamation Board is authorized to provide
any assurances to the Secretary of the Army which may be
required in connection with the accomplishment of flood con-
trol or clearing work on the channel of the Sacramento and
San Joaquin Eivers and their tributaries, pursuant to Section
208 of Public Law 780, 83rd Congress, 2nd Session, approved
September 3,1954, or any acts amending or adding to the same
now or hereafter adopted, or with the accomplishment of any
federal emergency flood control work on state-owned property.
This authorization is subject to the provisions of Section 12828.


                          CHAPTER 1285
An act to amend Sections 3036, 3080, 3651 and 3652 of, and
  to repeal Sections 3082, 3653, 3658 and 3659 of, the Fish and
  Game Code, relating to pheasant license tags.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3036 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read:
   3036. A veteran, having 70 percent or greater service-
connected disability, of any war in which the United States
has been, or may be engaged, upon the presentation of proof
of an honorable discharge from service, is entitled to the li-
censes provided for in this article upon application to the
Department of Fish and Game, Headquarters Office, Sacra-
mento, free of charge, and is entitled to receive, free of charge,
deer tags and a pheasant license stamp provided for in Sec-
tions 3652 and 4332.
   Proof of such disability shall be required and shall be by
certification from the Veterans Administration or, if the vet-
eran is over 55 years of age, by proof that he was issued a
license under this section in the previous year.
   As used in this section, " w a r " means that period of time
commencing when Congress declares war or when the armed
forces of the United States are engaged in active military
operations against any foreign power, whether or not war has
been formally declared, and ending upon the termination of
hostilities as proclaimed by the President of the United States.
   As used in this section, " v e t e r a n " includes any member of
the armed forces of the United States, having 70 percent or
greater service-connected disability, and whose service-con-
nected disability is certified by the appropriate military au-
thority.
   SEC. 2. Section 3080 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
2516              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      TQJ]_ J 2 8 6

   3080. Any game bird or mammal may be possessed during
a period other than the open season where taken and 10 days
thereafter, if the carcass, or part thereof, is tagged in con-
formity with the regulations of the commission. The commis-
sion shall prescribe the type of tag to be used, which shall
be of such construction and method of attachment that it can-
not be removed without mutilating or defacing an essential
part thereof.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the posses-
sion of deer or deer meat.
   Meat tagged in conformity with Section 3081 may be pos-
sessed at any time.
   Not more than the possession limit for the species in the
area where taken may be possessed at one time by any person
under the provisions of this section which provide for the
tagging of birds and mammals.
   Nothing in this section authorizes the possession of game
birds or carcasses or parts thereof contrary to regulations
issued pursuant to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.
   SEC. 3. Section 3082 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 3651 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   3651. Except as provided in Sections 3270 to 3291 and in
Sections 3509 and 3510, it is unlawful to take any wild pheas-
ants without first procuring a pheasant license stamp.
   SEC. 5. Section 3652 of the Fish and Game Code is amended
to read:
   3652. Any person who possesses a valid hunting license
may, upon payment of two dollars ($2), procure a pheasant
license stamp. The stamp shall be affixed to the hunting license.
   SEC. 6. Section 3653 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 3658 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 3659 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 9. This act shall become operative on July 1, 1970.


                        CHAPTER 1286
An act to amend Section 27122 of the Streets and Highways
        Code, relating to bridge and highway districts.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 27122 of the Streets and Highways
Code is amended to read:
                       l969
Ch. 1288]                     REGULAR SESSION                   251?

   27122. The composition of the board of directors of the
 district shall be as follows:
    (a) One director, representing Del Norte County, one di-
 rector, representing Mendocino County, and one director, rep-
resenting Napa County, appointed by the board of supervisors
of the respective represented county.
    (b) Three directors, representing Marin County, appointed
by the board of supervisors thereof. One of such directors shall
be an elected member of said board of supervisors, and another
of such directors shall be an elected member of a city council
of a city within Marin County, and shall be designated by the
Marin Council of Mayors and Couneilmen.
   (c) Three directors, representing Sonoma County, appointed
by the board of supervisors thereof. One of such directors shall
be an elected member of said board of supervisors, and an-
other of such directors shall be an elected member of a city
council of a city within Sonoma County, and shall be desig-
nated by the Mayors' and Couneilmen's Association of Sonoma
County. The requirement that one representative of Sonoma
County be a member of the Board of Supervisors of Sonoma
County shall not be operative until December 12, 1970.
   (d) Nine directors, representing the City and County of
San Francisco, eight of which shall be appointed by the board
of supervisors thereof, and one of which shall be appointed by
the mayor thereof by an order of appointment, a certified copy
of which shall be immediately forwarded to the Secretary of
State. Four of such directors shall be elected members of said
board of supervisors.

                          CHAPTER 1287
An act to add Section 21385.1 to the Government Code, relat-
      ing to the Public Employees' Retirement  System.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 21385.1 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   21385.1. Notwithstanding Section 21385, members, who
were employees of a contracting agency when the agency be-
came subject to this article and elected not to be subject to
it, may elect to be subject to this article.


                          CHAPTER 1288
An act to amend Sections 23802, 23803, 23805, and 24054 of,
  to add Sections 24055, 24056, and 24057 to, and to repeal
  Section 23619 of, the Education Code, relating to state col-
2518                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     m ^ J288

  lege auxiliary organizations, and making an appropriation
  therefor, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
  immediately.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
    SECTION 1. Section 23619 of the Education Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 1.2. Section 23802 of the Education Code is amended
 to read:
    23802. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the con-
 trary, student body organization membership fees authorized
 under the provisions of Section 23801 hereof shall be collected
 by the officials of the college, together with all tuition and ma-
terial and service fees, at the time of registration. All
 unexpended funds and money collected on behalf of or by stu-
 dent body organizations, except funds and money collected
 from commercial services as provided in Section 24057, shall
be deposited in a local trust account by the chief fiscal officer
of the state college and such money shall, subject to the ap-
 proval of the trustees, be deposited or invested in one or more
of the following ways:
    (a) Deposits in a bank or banks whose accounts are in-
 sured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
    (b) Investment certificates or withdrawable shares in state-
 chartered savings and loan associations and savings accounts
 of federal savings and loan associations, provided such asso-
ciations are doing business in this state and have their ac-
 counts insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance
 Corporation.
    (c) Purchase of any of the securities authorized for invest-
ment by Section 16430 of the Government Code.
   All money received by a state college from any agency of
the state or federal government for the payment of student
body organizations membership fees of students attending the
 college shall be deposited or invested as provided above.
   SEC. 1.3. Section 23803 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   23803. All money collected by a state college on behalf of a
student body organization under Sections 23801, 23802, 24051,
24101, and 24102 shall be available for such purposes of the
student body organization as are approved by the trustees.
   These funds shall be maintained in local trust accounts by
the college, and the chief fiscal officer of the college shall be
custodian of these accounts and provide the necessary account-
ing records and controls for such funds.
   These funds may be expended by the custodian only upon
the submission of an appropriate claim schedule by officers of
the student body organization.
                      1969
 Ch. 12881                   REGULAR SESSION                  2519

     The state college shall be reimbursed by the student body
  organization an amount to cover the cost of the custodial and
  accounting services provided by the college in connection with
  these funds.
     Student body funds used for scholarships, grants-in-aid, sti-
  pends, loans, and similar expenditures shall conform to the
 regulations of the trustees, which shall be adopted within 180
  days after the effective date of the amendment to this section
  enacted at the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature, and
 shall be approved by the College Financial Aids Office before
 such funds are expended and shall be reflected on the student's
 record kept in that office. The student's financial aid record
 shall include all such funds received by the student.
    SEC. 1.4. Section 23805 of the Education Code is amended
 to read:
    23805. Upon the favorable vote of two-thirds of the stu-
 dents voting in an election held for the purpose at a state col-
 lege, in such manner as the trustees shall prescribe, and open
 to all regular students enrolled in the college, the trustees
 are authorized to fix, in addition to any other student fee the
 trustees are authorized to fix, a building and operating fee not
 to exceed twenty dollars ($20) per student per academic year
 which shall be required of all students attending the college.
 All unexpended funds and money collected by a state college
 on behalf of a student body organization under this section
shall be deposited in a local trust account by the chief fiscal
officer of the state college. Such money shall be available for
financing, operating and constructing the student body center,
 and until so used, shall, subject to the approval of the trustees,
 be deposited or invested in one or more of the following ways:
    (a) Deposits in a bank or banks whose accounts are in-
sured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; pro-
vided, that any money so deposited shall be in an account or
accounts fully covered by such insurance.
    (b) Investment certificates or withdrawable shares in state-
chartered savings and loan associations and savings accounts
of federal savings and loan associations; provided such associa-
tions are doing business in this state and have their accounts
insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion; and provided further that any money so invested or
deposited is invested or deposited in certificates, shares, or ac-
counts fully covered by such insurance.
    (c) Purchase of any of the securities authorized for invest-
ment by Section 16430 of the Government Code.
    These funds shall be maintained in local trust accounts by
the college, and the chief fiscal officer of the college shall be
custodian of these accounts and provide the necessary account-
ing records and controls for such funds.
    These funds may be expended by the custodian only upon
the submission of an appropriate claim schedule by officers of
the student body organization.
2520               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1288

   The state college shall be reimbursed by the student body
organization an amount to cover the cost of the custodial and
accounting services provided by the college in connection with
these funds.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 24054 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   24054. A certified public accountant selected by the organi-
zations or funds hereafter described and in accordance with
procedures prescribed by the Department of Finance, shall
annually audit any and all state college auxiliary funds and
funds of organizations using the name of the state, state col-
lege, or representing an official relationship with the college,
or funds in which college officials participate as directors as
part of their official position, whether such funds be main-
tained on campus or not. The organizations or funds shall
contract for and receive such audit annually, and shall submit
such audit to the trustees and to the Director of Finance.
Auxiliary organizations shall annually publish an audited
statement of their financial condition which shall be dissemi-
nated as widely as feasible on the campus and be available to
any person on request. Publication in the campus student
newspaper shall be deemed compliance with this requirement.
   The president shall be responsible for ascertaining that all
expenditures are in accordance with policies of the trustees,
the propriety of all expenditures, and the integrity of the
financial reporting, made by auxiliary organizations.
   The operation of state college auxiliary organizations shall
be conducted in conformity with regulations established by the
trustees, and the accounting procedures of such state college
auxiliary organizations shall be approved by the Director of
Finance. The regulations shall include provisions requiring
the governing board of each auxiliary organization to provide
salaries, working conditions and benefits, exclusive of retire-
ment and permanent status benefits, for the full-time em-
ployees of each auxiliary organization, except alumni asso-
ciations, which are comparable to those provided state college
employees performing similar services. For those employees
whose duties are not comparable to classes in state college
employment the salaries established shall be at least equal to
the salaries prevailing in other educational institutions in the
area.
   SEC. 2. Section 24055 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   24055. Each auxiliary organization formed pursuant to
this article, shall have a board of directors composed, both as to
size and categories of membership, in accordance with regula-
tions established by the Trustees of the California State Col-
leges.
   Each governing board shall, during each fiscal year, hold at
least one business meeting each quarter. The board shall have
the benefit of the advice and counsel of at least one attorney
Ch. 1288]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                   2521

 admitted to practice law in this state and at least one licensed
 certified public accountant. Neither the attorney at law nor the
 certified public accountant need be members of the board.
    No auxiliary organization shall accept any grant, contract,
 bequest, trust, or gift, unless it is so conditioned that it may
 be used only for purposes consistent with policies of the
 trustees.
    SEC. 3. Section 24056 is added to the Education Code, to
 read:
    24056. All expenditures and fund appropriations of aux-
 iliary organizations described in Section 24055 shall be ap-
proved by the governing board of the auxiliary organization.
Appropriations of funds for use outside of the normal business
operations of the auxiliary organization shall be approved in
accordance with trustee policy and regulations by an officer
designated by the trustees.
    The trustees in consultation with the Department of Fi-
nance and the governing boards of the various auxiliary or-
ganizations described in Section 24055, on or before the be-
ginning of the 1970-1971 fiscal year, shall:
    (a) Institute a standard system wide accounting and re-
porting system for businesslike management of the operation
of such auxiliary organizations.
    (b) Implement financial standards which will assure the
fiscal viability of such various auxiliary organizations. Such
standards shall include proper provision for professional man-
agement, adequate working capital, adequate reserve funds
for current operations and capital replacements, and adequate
provisions for new business requirements.
    (c) Institute procedures to assure that transactions of the
auxiliary organizations are within the educational mission of
the state colleges.
    (d) Develop policies for the appropriation of funds derived
from indirect cost payments not required to implement sub-
division (b). Uses of such funds shall be regularly reported
to the trustees.
    SEC. 4. Section 24057 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
    24057. Operations of commercial services on a state college
campus, such as a food service or bookstore, or such commer-
cial services as may be provided in a college union, shall, when
operated by an auxiliary organization, be self-supporting.
    Any surplus funds from commercial operations shall be
used for such purposes as are consistent with regulations of
the trustees.
    SEC. 5. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund the sum of seventeen thousand one hundred ninety-
seven dollars ($17,197) to the California State Colleges to
provide for a special projects coordinator to give systemwide
policy direction and exercise supervision over the auxiliary
organizations of the California State Colleges for the fiscal
year 1969-1970.
2522                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      [ Q ^ 1289

   SEC. 6. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such neces-
sity are:
   There is a need to implement certain state college adminis-
trative and fiscal control improvements as soon as possible. For
the convenience of the state colleges, these improvements
should be implemented before the start of the 1969-1970 aca-
demic year.

                          CHAPTER 1289
       An act to amend Section 8211 of the Government Code,
             relating to depositions and notaries public.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State- of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 8211 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   8211. The fees of a notary public are:
   (a) For every protest for the nonpayment of a promissory
note or for the nonpayment or nonacceptance of a bill of ex-
change, draft, or check, two dollars ($2).
   (b) F o r serving every notice of nonpayment of a promis-
sory note or of nonpayment or nonacceptance of a bill of ex-
change, order, draft, or check, one dollar ($1).
   (c) For recording every protest, one dollar ($1).
   (d) For copying an affidavit, or other paper for which pro-
vision is not made herein, ten cents ($0.10) for each folio.
   (e) For all services rendered in connection with the taking
of any deposition, the sum of five dollars ($5), and in addition
thereto, the sum of one dollar ($1) for administering the oath
to the witness and the sum of one dollar ($1) for the certificate
to such deposition.
   The fees herein provided for are exclusive of any fees for
services rendered either by a notary public or another in con-
nection with the reporting or transcription of depositions.
   For his services transcribing a deposition the reporter shall
receive from the party purchasing the original sixty-five cents
 ($0.65) per 100 words, and for each copy made at the same
time ten cents ($0.10) per 100 words,- from all other parties
purchasing the same the reporter shall receive for each copy
made at the same time as the original twenty cents ($0.20) per
100 words for the first copy, and ten cents ($0.10) per 100
words for additional copies.
   In any county having a population of 5,000,000 or over, for
services in reporting a deposition, a reporter shall receive not
less than thirty-five dollars ($35) for one-half day nor more
                       1969
Ch. 1290]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2523

than the fees of a reporter pro tempore in the superior court
of the county. For services in transcribing a deposition, the
reporter shall receive from the party purchasing the original
and one copy not less than two dollars ($2) per 28-line 8-J x 11-
inch page, and, for each additional copy made at the same
time or from all other parties purchasing a copy, the reporter
sball receive not less than fifty cents ($0.50) per page.
   If a deposition is transcribed, the reporter shall not receive
the compensation provided in this subdivision for reporting
the deposition.
   (f) For taking an acknowledgment or proof of a deed, or
other instrument, to include the seal and the writing of the
certificate, for the first two signatures, one dollar ($1) each,
and for each additional signature, fifty cents ($0.50).
   (g) For administering an oath or affirmation, fifty cents
 ($0.50).
   (h) For every certificate, to include writing the same, and
the seal, one dollar ($1).

                          CHAPTER 1290
  An act to amend Sections 959.1 and 960.3 of the Streets and
         Highways Code, relating to county highways.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 959.1 of the Streets and Highways
Code is amended to read:
   959.1. In any proceeding for the abandonment of any
county highway or part thereof, the board may in its order:
   (a) Reserve and except from the abandonment the easement
and right at any time, or from time to time, to construct,
maintain, operate, replace, remove and renew sanitary sewers
and storm drains and appurtenant structures in, upon, over
and across any highway or part thereof proposed to be aban-
doned and pursuant to any existing franchise or renewals
thereof, or otherwise, to construct, maintain, operate, replace,
remove, renew and enlarge lines of pipe, conduits, cables,
wires, poles, and other convenient structures, equipment and
fixtures for the operation of gas pipelines, telegraphic and
telephone lines, railroad lines and for the transportation or
distribution of electric energy, petroleum and its products,
ammonia, water, and for incidental purposes, including access
to protect the property from all hazards in, upon and over
the highway or part thereof proposed to be abandoned.
    (b) Reserve and except from abandonment an easement for
a future public road.
   SEC. 2. Section 960.3 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
2524               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Qh. 1291

   960.3. On abandonment of an easement or the vacation
of a highway, when the county owns only an easement, title
thereto reverts to the owner of the underlying fee except as
otherwise provided in Section 959.1. Where the county owns
the property on which the vacated highway was located in fee,
the board of supervisors may dispose of the property as pro-
vided in Section 960.4.

                        CHAPTER 1291
An act to convey certain tide and submerged lands to the City
  of Santa Cruz, in furtherance of navigation, commerce and
  fisheries upon certain trusts and conditions, and providing
  for the government, management, use, and control thereof,
  and reserving rights to the state.
          [Approved by Governor August SO, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. There is hereby granted to the City of Santa
 Cruz a municipal corporation of the State of California, and
-to its successors, all the right, title and interest of the State
 of California, held by the state by virtue of its sovereignty in
and to all tide and submerged lands, whether filled or unfilled,
lying between Santa Cruz Point and the west jetty of the
small craft harbor, more particularly described as follows:
   Beginning at a station in the Bay of Monterey from which
 a granite monument at the Northwestern corner of lands con-
veyed by Almus L. Eountree and Elizabeth E. Rountree, his
wife, to the United States of America by deed dated May 16,
 1868, and recorded in Volume 11 of Deeds at Page 495, Santa
 Cruz County Records, bears North 38° West 1000.00 feet
distant; thence from said point of beginning Northeasterly in
a direct line to a station from which an " X " cut in the con-
crete at the intersection of the Eastern line of 4th Avenue with
the Northern line of Atlantic Avenue, as said intersection is
shown on "Record of Survey Map of the Lands of Russell
 Giffin E t U x " , filed in Volume 37 of Maps at Page 62, Santa
 Cruz County Records, bears North 22° 45' West 1618.00 feet
distant; thence due East 100 feet, a little more or less, to the
line of low tide on the Western side of the Western jetty at the
entrance to the Santa Cruz Small Craft Harbor; thence North-
erly along said low tide line to its intersection with the low
tide line of the Bay of Monterey; thence Westerly along said
last mentioned low tide line to the Eastern boundary of the
tidelands conveyed to the Town of Santa Cruz by the People
of the State of California, as described in Section 2 of an act
entitled '' An Act supplementary to and amendatory of an Act
to incorporate the Town of Santa Cruz, approved March
thirty-first, eighteen hundred and sixty-six", approved March
                      1969
 Ch. 1291]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2525

  21, 1872, as Chapter CCCXLIL of the Statutes of California
  of the Nineteenth Session of the Legislature of the State of
  California; thence Westerly along the Southern boundary of
  said last mentioned lands to a station from which the place of
  beginning bears due East; thence due Bast about 100 feet to
 the place of beginning.
     To be forever held by such city and by its successors in trust
 for the uses and purposes, and upon the express conditions fol-
 lowing, to wit:
     (a) That the lands shall be used by the city and its suc-
 cessors for purposes in which there is a general statewide in-
 terest as follows:
     (1) For the establishment, improvement and conduct of a
 harbor, and for the construction, reconstruction, repair, main-
 tenance, and operation of wharves, docks, piers, slips, quays,
 and all other works, buildings, facilities, utilities, structures
 and appliances incidental, necessary or convenient for the
 promotion and accommodation of commerce and navigation.
     (2) For the construction, reconstruction, repair and main-
 tenance of highways, streets, roadways, bridges, parking facili-
 ties, power, telephone, telegraph or cable lines or landings,
 water and gas pipelines, and all other transportation and
 utility facilities or betterments incidental, necessary or con-
venient for the promotion and accommodation of any of the
uses set forth in this section.
    (3) For the construction, reconstruction, repair, mainte-
nance and operation of public buildings, public assembly and
meeting places, convention centers, parks, playgrounds, bath-
houses and bathing facilities, recreation and fishing piers,
public recreation facilities, including but not limited to public
golf courses, and for all works, buildings, facilities, utilities,
structures and appliances incidental, necessary or convenient
for the promotion and accommodation of any such uses.
    (4) For the establishment, improvement and conduct of
small boat harbors, marinas, aquatic playgrounds and similar
recreational facilities, and for the construction, reconstruction,
repair, maintenance and operation of all works, buildings,
facilities, utilities, structures and appliances incidental, nec-
essary or convenient for the promotion and accommodation
of any of such uses, including but not limited to snackbars,
cafes, restaurants, launching ramps and hoists, storage sheds,
boat repair facilities with cranes and marine ways, admin-
istration buildings, public restrooms, bait and tackle shops,
chandleries, boat sales establishments, service stations and fuel
docks, yacht club buildings, parking areas, roadways, pedes-
trian ways and landscaped areas.
    (b) The city, or its successors shall not at any time, grant,
convey, give or alienate such lands, or any part thereof, to
any individual, firm or corporation for any purposes what-
ever; provided, that the city, or its successors, may grant
franchises thereon for limited periods, not exceeding 66 years,
2526               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                tQJlg J291

  for wharves and other public uses and purposes, and may lease
 the lands, or any part thereof, for limited periods, not ex-
 ceeding 66 years, for purposes consistent with the trusts upon
 which the lands are held by the state, and with the require-
 ments of commerce and navigation, and collect and retain
 rents and other revenues from such leases, franchises and priv-
  ileges. Such lease or leases, franchises and privileges may be
 for any and all purposes which shall not interfere with com-
 merce and navigation. Nothing contained in this paragraph
  (b) shall be deemed to affect the validity or term of any fran-
 chise granted by said city under the Franchise Act of 1937,
  and any such franchise shall be effective with respect to the
 lands.
     Any plan for development involving filling, dredging or
  other improvements must first be approved by the State Lands
  Commission 90 days prior to commencement of work thereon.
  In the event that the commission does not respond within 90
 days of receipt, approval of the project is deemed to be given.
 The purpose of this provision is to insure that the provisions
 of Chapter 1642, Statutes of 1967, are being carried out and
 that any developments by local agencies pursuant to legisla-
 tive grants or otherwise will be in accord with policies and
 plans included in the California Comprehensive Ocean Area
 Plan.
      (c) Within 10 years from the effective date of this act, the
 lands shall be substantially improved by the city without
 expense to the state, and if the State Lands Commission deter-
 mines that the city has failed to improve the lands as herein
 required, all right, title, and interest of the city in and to all
 lands granted by this act shall cease and the lands shall revert
 and rest in the state.
    Nothing contained in this act, however, shall preclude ex-
penditures for the development of the lands for any public
purpose not inconsistent with commerce, navigation and fish-
ery, by the state, or any board, agency or commission thereof,
when authorized or approved by the city, nor by the city of
any funds received for such purpose from the state or any
board, agency or commission thereof.
     (d) In the management, conduct, operation and control of
said lands or any improvements, betterments, or structures
thereon, the city or its successors shall make no discrimination
in rates, tolls or charges for any use or service in connection
therewith.
     (e) The state shall have the right to use without charge any
transportation, landing or storage improvements, betterments
or structures constructed upon the lands for any vessel or
other watercraft, aircraft, or railroad OAvned or operated by
the state.
     (f) There is hereby reserved to the people of the state the
right to fish in the waters on the lands with the right of con-
venient access to the water over the lands for such purpose.
                        1969
Ch. 1292]                      REGULAK SESSION                  2527

   (g) There is hereby excepted and reserved in the state all
deposits of minerals, including oil and gas, in the lands, and
to the state, or persons authorized by the state, the right to
prospect for, mine, and remove such deposits from the lands.
   (h) Such lands are granted subject to the express reserva-
tion and condition that the state may at any time in the future
use the lands or any portion thereof for highway purposes
without compensation to the city, its successors or assigns, or
any person, firm or public or private corporation claiming
under it, except that in the event improvements, betterments
or structures have been placed upon the property taken by
the state for such purposes, compensation shall be made to
the person entitled thereto for the value of his interest in the
improvements, betterments or structures taken or the damages
to such interest.
   (i) The State Lands Commission shall, at the cost of the
city, survey and monument the granted lands and record a
description and plat thereof in the office of the County Re-
corder of Santa Cruz County.
   (j) The city shall cause to be made and filed with the De-
partment of Finance, annually, a detailed statement of re-
ceipts and expenditures by it of all rents, revenues, issues and
profits in any manner hereafter arising from the granted lands
or any improvements, betterments or. structures thereon.


                           CHAPTER 1292
   An act to amend Section 14115 of the Welfare and Insti-
              tutions Code) relating to payments.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 14115 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
  14115. Bills for service under this chapter shall be sub-
mitted not more than two months after the month in which
the service is rendered, and shall be in the form prescribed by
the director, except that in the event the patient does not
identify himself to the provider as a Medi-Cal beneficiary, the
provider shall be entitled to submit his statement at any time
within 60 days after that date certified by the provider as the
date said patient was first identified as a Medi-Cal benefici-
ary, provided, however that such date certified by the provider
as the date the patient was first so identified shall be not later
than one year after the month in which the service was ren-
dered. Further, the director may, where he finds that delay
in the submission of bills was caused by circumstances beyond
the control of the provider, extend the period for submission of
bills for a period not to exceed one year.
    80—1954
2528              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     r ^ h . J 293

                        CHAPTER 1293
    An act to amend Section 4534 of the Agricultural         Code,
                      relating to fairs.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4534 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   4534. (a) The committee shall investigate, study, and
analyze, when it deems it necessary, any or all facts and
matters relating to the operation and financing of fairs which
are subject to this division and the effect and operation of the
laws relating thereto.
   (b) The committee shall review regularly the administration
of the Fair and Exposition F u n d by the Division of Fairs and
Expositions, or its successor in the department, and make
recommendations to improve efficiency and economy in the
operation of all fairs.
   (c) The committee shall seek methods whereby private fi-
nancing can be secured for support of all local fairs.
   (d) The committee shall review regularly the capability of
the Division of Fairs and Expositions, or its successor in the
department, to administer and supervise the allocation of
moneys from the Fair and Exposition Fund to all local fairs.
   (e) The committee shall make recommendations to the Leg-
islature regarding the establishment of new district agricul-
tural associations or local fairs.
   (f) The committee shall review regularly the criteria for
the classification of fairs specified by Section 4507 and make
recommendations for changes whenever appropriate.
   (g) The committee shall encourage, where feasible, the con-
duct on a regular basis of joint or combined fairs pursuant
to Section 4441.

                        CHAPTER 1294
An act to amend Sections 5271, 5272, and 5325 of the Business
    and Professions Code, relating to outdoor advertising.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 5271 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   5271. No person shall place any advertising display unless
there is securely fastened upon the front thereof an identifica-
tion number plate of the character specified in Section 5272.
                       1969
Ch. 1295]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2529

The placing of any advertising display without having affixed
thereto an identification number plate is prima facie evidence
that the advertising display has been placed and is being
maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, and
any such display shall be subject to removal as provided in
Section 5312.
   SEC. 2. Section 5272 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   5272. Identification number plates shall be furnished by
the director. Identification number plates shall bear the iden-
tification number of the advertising display to which they are
assigned.
   SEC. 3. Section 5325 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read :
   5325. (a) The permit fee for each advertising sign is fifty
cents ($0.50) for an original permit and for each annual re-
newal thereof, except where the applicant has placed or main-
tained any such sign without a valid, unrevoked and unexpired
permit therefor, the fee for any issuance of the first permit
thereafter is one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50), one dollar ($1)
of which is the penalty.
    (b) For calendar year 1970, the permit fee for an ad-
vertising structure for the original permit and for each an-
nual renewal thereof is seven dollars ($7), except where the
applicant has placed or maintained such structure without a
valid, unrevoked and unexpired permit therefor, the fee for
any issuance of the first permit thereafter is eight dollars ($8),
one dollar ($1), of which is the penalty.
    (c) For calendar year 1971 and each calendar year there-
after, the permit fee for an advertising structure for the orig-
inal permit and for each annual renewal thereof is six dollars
 ($6), except where the applicant has placed or maintained such
structure without a valid, unrevoked and unexpired permit
therefor, the fee for any issuance of the first permit thereafter
is seven dollars ($7), one dollar ($1), of which is the penalty.


                           CHAPTEK 1295
An act to amend Sections 6502, 6503, and 6508 of the Educa-
            tion Code, relating to special schools.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6502 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6502. The governing board of any school district, or the
county board of education, may establish schools or may set
2530               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQ^ ] 296

apart public school buildings or may set apart in public school
buildings a room or rooms for pupils in grades 1 through 12,
inclusive, as described in Section 6500. The school building so
established or set apart shall be known as an opportunity
school and the room or rooms set apart in a public school
building shall be known as opportunity class or classes.
   SEC. 2. Section 6503 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6503. Any governing board or county board of education
establishing and maintaining an opportunity school or oppor-
tunity classes may make such special rules and regulations for
its government and administration as are consistent with the
provisions and purposes of this article, and not contrary to
law.
   SEC. 3. Section 6508 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6508. The governing board of a school district or school
districts, as the case may be, or county board of education
maintaining an opportunity school or opportunity class may
accept and expend grants from the federal government or from
other public or private sources for the purposes of this article.


                         CHAPTER 1296
An act to amend Section 2 of the Burton Act (Chapter 1333
  of the Statutes of 1968), relating to the Harbor of San
  Francisco.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2 of the Burton Act (Chapter 1333 of
the Statutes of 1968) is amended to read:
   Sec. 2. The Director of Finance is hereby authorized to
negotiate with the City and County of San Francisco for the
transfer, in conformity with the provisions of this act, to the
City and. County of San Francisco, a municipal corporation
of the State of California, or to its successor, in trust for
purposes of commerce, navigation, and fisheries and subject
to the terms and conditions specified in this act, all of the
right, title and interest held by the State of California and
acquired by virtue of its sovereignty or otherwise, in and
to the real property located in the City and County of
San Francisco and presently under the jurisdiction and
control of the San Francisco Port Authority, together with
all improvements, rights, privileges, easements and appur-
tenances connected therewith or in anywise appertaining
thereto, and any and all personal property of every kind
and description owned or controlled by the State of Cali-
Ch. 1296]            3 969 REGULAR SESSION                    2531

fornia and used in connection with the operation and
maintenance of San Francisco Harbor and including any de-
posits of funds held by or for the San Francisco Port Author-
 ity; excepting and reserving unto the State of California all
subsurface mineral deposits, including oil and gas deposits, to-
gether with the right of ingress and egress on the properties
conveyed to the City and County of San Francisco for explo-
ration, drilling and extraction of such mineral, oil and gas
deposits, subject, however, to the provision that during the
term of any lease, franchise, permit or license of such prop-
 erty pursuant to Section 3 of this act, such mineral rights
herein reserved to the State of California, including the right
of ingress and egress, shall not be exercised so as to disturb or
otherwise interfere with the leasehold estate or the rights or en-
cumbrances to which any such lease, franchise, permit or license
may be subject; provided, however, that any lease, franchise,
permit or license of such property pursuant to Section 3 of this
act must contain a provision specifying at least one point from
which and the manner in which the right of ingress or egress
to said subsurface deposits may be exercised, which said point
or points may be outside the area of the leasehold, franchise,
permit or license, providing the point or points are adequate
to permit the rights reserved to the state to be exercised;
and also reserving to the people of the State of California the
right to hunt and fish in and over the waters of San Francisco
Harbor. The negotiations shall be concluded by October 21,
1968, unless such time is extended by mutual agreement.
Within three years after the effective date of this act, the State
Lands Commission shall, at the cost of the Harbor Commission
of the City and County of San Francisco, survey and monu-
ment the transferred lands, and record a description and plat
thereof in the office of the recorder of the city and county. This
act shall not apply to any property or interest in property,
whether real or personal, owned by or under the jurisdiction
or control of the Department of Public Works, Division of
Highways, Division of Bay Toll Crossings, or the California
Toll Bridge Authority. All that property described in Section
1770 of the Harbors and Navigation Code and transferred to
the City and County of San Francisco by this act shall remain
subject to any requirements of the Department of Public
Works, Division of Bay Toll Crossings, Division of Highways,
or the California Toll Bridge Authority for future right-of-
way, or easement, or material for the construction, location,
realignment, expansion and maintenance of bridges, highways
or other transportation facilities without compensation to the
City and County of San Francisco, except that in the event
improvements, betterments or structures have been placed
upon the property transferred, compensation shall be made to
the City and County of San Francisco, and to any third party
entitled thereto, for the value of the improvements, better-
ments, or structures taken, and except property that was orig-
2532              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     rQn_ ^297

inally acquired for valuable consideration, in which case
compensation shall be made to the City and County of San
Francisco. The Director of Finance shall be assisted in such
negotiations by the Secretary for Agriculture and Services and
the San Francisco Port Authority.


                        CHAPTEE 1297
An act to amend Section 11655.5 of the Health and               Safety
           Code, relating to marijuana and drugs.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 11655.5 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
   11655.5. The Legislature finds that there is a need to en-
courage further research into the nature and effects of mari-
juana (Cannabis sativa) and hallucinogenic drugs and to
coordinate research efforts on such subjects.
   There shall be established a Research Advisory Panel which
shall consist of a representative of the State Department of
Public Health, a representative of the Department of Mental
Hygiene, the Chairman of the Interagency Council on Drug
Abuse, a representative of the California State Board of Phar-
macy, a representative of the Attorney General, a representa-
tive of the University of California who shall be a pharmacol-
ogist or physician or a person holding a doctorate degree in
the health sciences, a representative of a private university in
this state who shall be a pharmacologist or physician or a per-
son holding a doctorate degree in the health sciences. The
Governor shall annually designate the private university rep-
resented on the panel. Members of the panel shall be appointed
by the heads of the entities to be represented, and they shall
serA^e at the pleasure of the appointing power.
   The panel may hold hearings on, and in other ways study,
research projects concerning marijuana (Cannabis sativa) or
hallucinogenic drugs in this state. Members of the panel shall
serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for any
actual and necessary expenses incurred in connection with the
performance of their duties.
   The panel may approve research projects into the nature
and effects of marijuana (Cannabis sativa) or hallucinogenic
drugs, and shall inform the Chief of the Bureau of Narcotic
Enforcement of the head of such approved research projects
which are entitled to receive quantities of marijuana (Cannabis
sativa) pursuant to Section 11655.
   The panel may withdraw approval of a research project at
any time, and when approval is withdrawn shall notify the
                    1969
Ch. 12971                  REGULAR SESSION                2533

head of the research project to return any quantities of mari-
juana (Cannabis sativa) or hallucinogenic drugs to the Chief
 of the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement.
    The panel shall report annually to the Legislature and the
 Governor those research projects approved by the panel, the
nature of each research project, and, where available, the con-
clusions of the research project.
    SEC. 2. Section 11655.5 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   11655.5. The Legislature finds that there is a need to en-
courage further research into the nature and effects of mari-
juana (Cannabis sativa) and hallucinogenic drugs and to co-
ordinate research efforts on such subjects.
   There shall be established a Research Advisory Panel which
shall consist of a representative of the State Department of
Public Health, a representative of the Department of Mental
Hygiene, the Chairman of the Interagency Council on Drug
Abuse, a representative of the California State Board of Phar-
macy, a representative of the Attorney General, a representa-
tive of the University of California who shall be a pharmacolo-
gist or physician or a person holding a doctorate degree in the
health sciences, and a representative of a private university
in this state who shall be a pharmacologist or physician or a
person holding a doctorate degree in the health sciences. The
Governor shall annually designate the private university repre-
sented on the panel. Members of the panel shall be appointed
by the heads of the entities to be represented, and they shall
serve at the pleasure of the appointing power.
   The panel may hold hearings on, and in other ways study,
research projects concerning marijuana (Cannabis sativa) or
hallucinogenic drugs in this state. Members of the panel shall
serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for any
actual and necessary expenses incurred in connection with the
performance of their duties.
   The panel may approve research projects into the nature
and effects of marijuana (Cannabis sativa) or hallucinogenic
drugs, and shall inform the Chief of the Bureau of Narcotic
Enforcement of the head of such approved research projects
which are entitled to receive quantities of marijuana (Can-
nabis sativa) pursuant to Section 11655.
   The panel may withdraw approval of a research project at
any time, and when approval is withdrawn shall notify the
head of the research project to return any quantities of mari-
juana (Cannabis sativa) to the Chief of the Bureau of Nar-
cotic Enforcement.
   The panel shall report annually to the Legislature and the
Governor those research projects approved by the panel, the
nature of each research project, and, where available, the con-
clusions of the research project.
   SEC. 3. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 11655.5 of the Health and Safety Code proposed by
2534               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     TQJj J 2 9 8

both this bill and A.B. 1264 are enacted, that both amendments
be given effect and incorporated in Section 11655.5 in the form
set forth in Section 2 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B.
1264 is enacted and amends Section 11655.5, Section 2 of this
act shall become operative on the effective date of this act and
Section 1 of this act shall not take effect


                         CHAPTER 1298
An act to amend Section 39052 of, and to add Section 39068,
  39100.3, and 39155 to, the Health and Safety Code, relating
  to air pollution, and making an appropriation   therefor.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 39052 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
   39052. The board shall:
   (a) Conduct studies and evaluate the effects of air pollution
upon human, plant, and animal life and the factors responsi-
ble for1 air pollution. The board may call upon the Department
of Public Health, Department of Agriculture, the University
of California, and such other state agencies it may deem nec-
essary.
    (b) Encourage a cooperative state effort in combating air
pollution.
    (c) Inventory sources of air pollution within the basins of
the state and determine the kinds and quantity of air pollu-
tants. The board shall use, to the fullest extent, the data of
local agencies in fulfilling this purpose.
    (d) Monitor air pollutants in cooperation with other agen-
cies to fulfill the purpose of this division.
    (e) Coordinate and collect research data on air pollution.
    (f) Review rules and regulations of local or regional author-
ities filed with it pursuant to Sections 39314 and 39461 to
assure that reasonable provision is made to control emissions
from nonvehicular sources and to achieve the air quality stand-
ards established by the board.
    (g) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Motor Vehicles, for making timely and de-
cisive mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution matters with
which both agencies are concerned, and submit a copy of
these procedures to the Legislature by January 1,1969.
    (h) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Public Health, for the performance of services
required by the board and for evaluating and resolving air
 pollution matters with which both agencies are concerned, and
                     19M
Ch. 1298]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2535

 submit a copy of these procedures to the Legislature by Janu-
 ary 1, 1969.
    (i) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
 Department of the California Highway Patrol, for making
 timely and decisive mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution
 matters with which both agencies are concerned, and siibmit a
 copy of these procedures to the Legislature by January 1,1969.
    (j) Publish annually a report of the results of the tests
 administered pursuant to subdivision (k) of this section, which
 shall include all of the following:
    (1) The total number of motor vehicles tested.
    (2) The total number of each engine and transmission com-
 bination tested.
    (3) The average emissions of all motor vehicles tested.
    (4) The average emissions of each engine and transmission
 combination tested.
    (5) An analysis of the emissions of each engine and trans-
mission combination tested.
    (k) Adopt test procedures as soon as possible, but in no
 event later than 45 days after the effective date of the amend-
ments to this section enacted by the Legislature at the 1968
Regular Session, specifying the manner in which new motor
vehicles shall be approved based upon the emission standards
contained in Article 2 (commencing with Section 39100) of
 Chapter 4 of this part. The board shall base its test procedures
on driving patterns typical in the urban areas of California,
and shall weight approval standards appropriately to reflect
normal engine deposit accumulation. The board shall admin-
ister the test for new motor vehicles in accordance with such
procedures.
   {I) Adopt regulations specifying the manner in which used
motor vehicles shall be accredited based upon their emissions.
These regulations are to be submitted to the Legislature by
January 1,1969.
   (m) Adopt, by regulation, emission standards and test pro-
cedures applicable to motor vehicles manufactured for sale in
this state. Such regulations shall provide for the testing of
vehicles on factory assembly lines or in such other manner as
the board determines best suited to carry out the purposes of
this part. The standards established by the board may deviate
from the standards established as a condition of approval as
the board determines is necessary to implement this section.
The test procedures shall be adopted after consideration of the
recommendations of the Technical Advisory Panel to the As-
sembly Transportation and Commerce Committee of April 14,
1968. Any manufacturer or distributor failing to comply with
the standards or test procedures established under this subdi-
vision shall be subject to a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50)
for each vehicle which does not comply with the regulations
and which is first sold in this state. The payment of such pen-
alties shall be a condition to the further sale of motor vehicles
in this state.
2536               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               T Qfo J298

     (n) Adopt exhaust emission standards for hydrocarbons,
 carbon monoxide, and oxides of nitrogen for new diesel-pow-
 ered vehicles, and diesel engines for vehicles first sold and
 registered in this state, no later than January 1, 1971.
     (o) Adopt emission standards for motor vehicles which shall
 be applicable only to motor vehicles for which emission stand-
 ards have not been specified in Article 2 (commencing with
 Section 39100) of Chapter 4 of this part.
     (p) Adopt low emission standards for the purpose of carry-
 ing out Section 14808.1 of the Government Code and Section
 6377 of the Revenue and Taxation Code for each model year
 motor vehicle beginning in 1970.
    SEC. 1.5. Section 39052 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
    39052. The board shall:
     (a) Conduct studies and evaluate the effects of air pollution
 upon human, plant, and animal life and the factors responsi-
 ble for air pollution. The board may call upon the Department
 of Public Health, Department of Agriculture, the University
 of California, and such other state agencies it may deem nec-
 essary.
    (b) Encourage a cooperative state effort in combating air
pollution.
    (c) Inventory sources of air pollution within the basins of
 the state and determine the kinds and quantity of air pollu-
 tants. The board shall use, to the fullest extent, the data of
local agencies in fulfilling this purpose.
    (d) Monitor air pollutants in cooperation with other agen-
 cies to fulfill the purpose of this division.
    (e) Coordinate and collect research data on air pollution.
    (f) Review rules and regulations of local or regional author-
ities filed with it pursuant to Sections 39314 and 39461 to
 assure that reasonable provision is made to control emissions
from nonvehicular sources and to achieve the air quality stand-
ards established by the board.
    (g) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Motor Vehicles, for making timely and decisive
mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution matters with which
both agencies are concerned, and submit a copy of these pro-
cedures to the Legislature by January 1, 1969.
    (h) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of Public Health, for the performance of services
required by the board and for evaluating and resolving air
pollution matters with which both agencies are concerned, and
submit a copy of these procedures to the Legislature by Janu-
ary 1,1969.
    (i) Adopt formal procedures, after consultation with the
Department of the California Highway Patrol, for making
timely and decisive mutual agreements on vehicle air pollution
matters with which both agencies are concerned, and submit a
copy of these procedures to the Legislature by January 1, 1969.
                     1969
Ch. 12981                   REGULAR SESSION                  2537

    (j) Publish annually a report of the results of the tests
administered pursuant to subdivision (k) of this section, which
shall include all of the following:
    (1) The total number of motor vehicles tested.
    (2) The total number of each engine and transmission com-
bination tested.
    (3) The average emissions of all motor vehicles tested.
    (4) The average emissions of each engine and transmission
combination tested.
    (5) An analysis of the emissions of each engine and trans-
mission combination tested.
    (k) Adopt test procedures as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days after tlie effective date of the amend-
ments to this section enacted by the Legislature at the 1968
Regular Session, specifying the manner in which new motor
vehicles shall be approved based upon the emission standards
contained in Article 2 (commencing with Section 39100) of
Chapter 4 of this part. The board shall base its test procedures
on driving patterns typical in the urban areas of California,
and shall weight approval standards appropriately to reflect
normal engine deposit accumulation. The board shall admin-
ister the test for new motor vehicles in accordance with such
procedures.
    (I) Adopt regulations specifying the manner in which used
motor vehicles shall be accredited based upon their emissions.
These regulations are to be submitted to the Legislature by
January 1, 1969.
    (m) Adopt, by regulation, emission standards and test pro-
cedures applicable to motor vehicles manufactured for sale in
this state. Such regulations shall provide for the testing of
vehicles on factory assembly lines or in such other manner as
the board determines best suited to carry out the purposes of
this part. The standards established by the board may deviate
from the standards established as a condition of approval as
the board determines is necessary to implement this section.
The test procedures shall be adopted after consideration of the
recommendations of the Technical Advisory Panel to the As-
sembly Transportation and Commerce Committee of April 14,
1968. Any manufacturer or distributor failing to comply with
the standards or test procedures established under this subdi-
vision shall be subject to a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50)
for each vehicle which does not comply with the regulations
and which is first sold in this state. The payment of such pen-
 alties shall be a condition to the further sale of motor vehicles
in this state.
    (n) Adopt exhaust emission standards for hydrocarbons,
 carbon monoxide, and oxides of nitrogen for new diesel-pow-
ered vehicles, and diesel engines for vehicles first sold and
registered in this state, no later than January 1, 1971.
    (o) Adopt emission standards for motor vehicles which shall
be applicable only to motor vehicles for which emission stand-
2538               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo ^ 2 9 8

 ards have not been specified in Article 2 (commencing with
 Section 39100) of Chapter 4 of this part.
    (p) Adopt low emission standards for the purpose of carry-
 ing out Section 14808.1 of the Government Code and Section
 6377 of the Revenue and Taxation Code for each model year
 motor vehicle beginning in 1970.
    (q) The board shall adopt test procedures to establish that
 motor vehicles which have been modified or altered to use a
 fuel other than gasoline or diesel are in compliance with Sec-
 tion 39110 giving consideration to relative reactivity and air-
 fuel correction factor of the fuel being tested.
    SEC. 2. Section 39068 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read :
    39068. All penalties paid to the board pursuant to subdi-
 vision (m) of Section 39052 shall be paid into the State
 Treasury for credit to the Motor Vehicle Pollution Con-
 trol Fund, which fund is hereby created. The money paid into
 the Motor Vehicle Pollution Control F u n d is continuously ap-
 propriated to the board to carry out the provisions of this part.
    SEC. 3. Section 39100.3 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read:
    39100.3. No manufacturer who pays a penalty pursuant
 to subdivision (m) of Section 39052 shall add the amount of
 such penalty to the cost of any motor vehicles sold by such
 manufacturer and any provision of any contract of sale in-
 cluding such penalty as part of the cost of a motor vehicle
 shall be void and unenforceable.
    It is the intent of the Legislature that the Air Resources
 Board shall determine the total number of vehicles to be tested
on the assembly line and the date that this testing shall be
initiated, after having first considered preliminary data ob-
tained from both foreign and domestic manufacturers for the
purpose of verifying the testing and reporting procedures re-
quired to assure equitable application of the provisions of sub-
division (m) of Section 39052 to all motor vehicle manufac-
turers. In making these determinations, the board must give
consideration to the economic and technological feasibility of
the assembly line test procedure.
   SEC. 4. Section 39155 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   39155. Bach new motor vehicle required pursuant to this
part to meet the emission standards in Article 2 (commencing
with Section 39100) of this chapter shall be in all material
respects substantially the same in construction as the test en-
gine and transmission combination which has been approved
by the board in accordance with Section 39151, provided that
changes with respect to new motor vehicles previously ap-
proved may be made if such changes do not increase emissions
above those for which approval was granted and provided that
such changes are made in accordance with procedures specified
by the board pursuant to subdivision (k) of Section 39052.
Oh. 1299]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2539

   SEC. 5. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 39052 of the Health and Safety Code proposed by
both this bill and A.B. 896 are enacted, that both amendments
be given effect and incorporated in Section 39052 in the form
set forth in Section 1.5 of this act. Therefore, in the event
A.B. 896 is enacted and amends Section 39052, Section 1.5 of
this act shall become operative on the effective date of this act
and Section 1 of this act shall not take effect.


                        CHAPTER 1299
An act to amend Section 3300.5 of the Education Code, relating
             to reorganization of school districts.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State August 31, 196!).]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3300.5 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   3300.5. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code,
proposals in a county master plan to form unified school dis-
tricts providing in part for the division of each of two or more
high school districts, and which include two or more existing
unified school districts in the proposals, shall be voted upon
by the electors of all the territory included in the county mas-
ter plan at a single election. The results of such election shall
in no way change the organizational status of the existing uni-
fied school districts. If a majority of votes is cast in favor of
the proposals in any of the proposed unified school districts,
the unified school district proposed is approved and formed.
If a majority of votes is not cast in favor of the proposals in
any of the proposed unified school districts, the unified school
districts proposed are not approved and formed.
   A county master plan provided for in this section shall be
submitted to the State Board of Education on or before De-
cember 31, 1969. After approval by the State Board of Edu-
cation, the county superintendent of schools shall set an elec-
tion to decide the adoption or rejection of the proposals on or
before June 2, 1970. Succeeding elections shall be made pur-
suant to Article 6 (commencing with Section 3291) of Chap-
ter 10 of this division.
   If the proposals are either approved or disapproved at such
election, the territory included within the entire county master
plan, including the two or more existing unified school districts,
shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 17702.2, 17702.3,
17706, and 17680, and the provision of Chapter 3.5 (commenc-
ing with Section 20910) of Division 16.
2540              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      [ Q i . 1300

  For the purposes of approving proposed new unified school
districts under this code section the State Board of Education
shall consider subdivisions (a), (e), (d), and (e) of Section
3100.

                        CHAPTER 1300
An act to amend Section 25210.65 of the Government                 Code,
          relating to -financing county service areas.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 25210.65 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   25210.65. Each year at the time the board of supervisors
fixes and levies taxes for county purposes it shall also fix the
rates of county service area taxes and shall levy the taxes upon
all taxable property within the area. The rate shall be such as
will produce, after due allowance for delinquency as fixed by
the board, the amount found by deducting from the estimate,
finally approved by the board, the amount of estimated revenue
from other sources of the county service area during the fiscal
year and any available surplus. With respect to any county
service area formed between January 1 and June 1, 1966, the
board may levy an annual special assessment upon the prop-
erty within the county service area for recreational services
and facilities benefiting such property.


                         CHAPTER 1301
An act to amend Sections 34315, 35121.6, 35313.6, 54797.1,
  54799.1, 56003.2, 56053, 56068, 56155, 56156, 56157, 56170,
  56172, 56173, 56174, 56175, 56180, 56182, 56183, 56184,
  56185, 56190, 56198, 56211, 56212, 56260, 56262, 56263,
  56263.1, and 56315, and to add Sections 54776.1, 54776.2,
  54797.2 and 54797.3 to, and to repeal Sections 56060 and
  56197 of the Government Code and to amend Sections 13948
  and 32002 of, and to add Article 7 (commencing with Sec-
  tion 4650) to, Chapter 1, Part 3, Division 5 of the Health
  and Safety Code, and to amend Section 5780.8 of the Public
  Resources Code, relating to local agency formation commis-
  sions.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 34315 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
                    1969
Ch. 13011                  REGULAR SESSION                 2541

   34315. On the final hearing, the board may make such
changes in the proposed boundaries as it finds proper, and shall
define the boundaries, and determine how many inhabitants,
or in a county with a population of 2,000,000 or more how
many registered voters, reside within the boundaries.
   If the board makes any changes in the boundaries of the
proposed city it shall resubmit the boundaries as changed to
the local agency formation commission pursuant to Section
54799.1 for reconsideration.
   SEC. 2. Section 35121.6 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   35121.6. If the legislative body of the city makes any
changes in the boundaries in accordance with the provisions
of Section 35121.5, it shall resubmit the boundaries as changed
to the local agency formation commission pursuant to Govern-
ment Code Section 54799.1 for reconsideration.
   SEC. 3. Section 35313.6 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   35313.6. If the legislative body of the city makes any
changes in the boundaries in accordance with the provisions of
Section 35313.5, it shall resubmit the boundaries as changed
to the local agency formation commission pursuant to Govern-
ment Code Section 54799.1 for reconsideration.
   SEC. 4. Section 54776.1 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   54776.1. On or before the 10th day of June the commission
shall prepare and transmit to the board of supervisors an esti-
mate of the amount of money needed for the purposes pre-
scribed by Section 54776 during the following fiscal year. The
board of supervisors shall provide for the use of the commis-
sion during said fiscal year the amount of money so fixed by the
commission. The county auditor shall audit and allow or reject
all claims for expenditures for county charges incurred pur-
suant to the provisions of this chapter in lieu of, and with the
same effect as, allowance or rejection of claims by the board of
supervisors.
   SEC. 5. Section 54776.2 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   54776.2. The commission may at any time authorize the
destruction of any duplicate record, paper, or other document
if the original, or a photographic copy thereof, is retained in
the files of the commission. The commission may authorize the
destruction of original records more than two years old if a
photographic copy thereof is made and preserved.
   SEC. 6. Section 54797.1 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   54797.1. If an application for an annexation to, or a de-
tachment from, a city is signed by all of the owners of land
within the territory proposed to be annexed or detached, or is
accompanied by proof, satisfactory to the commission, that all
of the owners within such territory have given their written
2542               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQ}^ J g Q l

consent to such annexation or detachment, the commission
may approve such annexation or detachment without notice
and hearing. In such cases the commission may also approve
and authorize the legislative body of the city to annex or de-
tach such territory (i) without notice and hearing by the legis-
lative body, (ii) without an election, or (iii) both.
   As used in this section "owner of l a n d " means: any person
shown as the owner of land on the last equalized assessment
roll; where such person is no longer the owner, then any per-
son entitled to be shown as owner of land on the next assess-
ment roll; where land is subject to a recorded written agree-
ment of sale, any person shown therein as purchaser; and any
public agency owning land.
   SEC. 7. Section 54797.2 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   54797.2. If an application for the formation of a district is
signed by all of the owners of land proposed to be included
within the district, and is accompanied by proof, satisfactory
to the commission, that all of the owners within such territory
have given their written consent to the proposed formation, the
commission shall hold a hearing on the proposed formation. In
such cases, however, the commission may approve and author-
ize the board of supervisors, or other appropriate legislative
body, to order the formation of the district (1) without notice
and hearing by the legislative body, (2) without an election,
or (3) both.
   As used in this section '' owner of l a n d ' ' means: any person
shown as the owner of land on the last equalized assessment
roll; where such person is no longer the owner, then any per-
son entitled to be shown as owner of land on the next assess-
ment roll; where land is subject to a recorded written agree-
ment of sale, any person shown therein as purchaser; and any
public agency owning land.
   SEC. 7.5. Section 54797.3 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   54797.3. Any person may, prior to any meeting, request any
local agency formation commission to cause a transcript rec-
ord to be made of such meeting. If the cost of such record is
borne by such person, the commission shall cause a transcript
record to be made.
   SEC. 8. Section 54799.1 of the Government Code is amended
to read :
   54799.1. If any legislative body shall desire any addition,
deletion, amendment or revision of any commission resolution
making determinations or any term, condition or other provi-
sion contained therein, including minor or major changes in
boundaries of proposed new cities or annexations to existing
cities, such legislative body shall file written application there-
for with the executive officer who shall present the same to
the commission at its next meeting. The commission, in its dis-
cretion, may either (i) without further notice and hearing,
                     1969
Ch. 13011                   REGULAR SESSION                    2543

deny or approve such application in whole or in part, or (ii)
provide for notice and hearing upon said application, in the
same manner as for the original proposal, prior to denying or
approving the same.
   SEC. 8.5. Section 13948 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read :
   13948. Any city, or portion thereof, may be included within
a district upon the adoption of an ordinance by the city gov-
erning body requesting the inclusion which is approved by the
district board. The district board may require as a condition
to the inclusion that the city or portion thereof included within
the district remain a part of the district for a period of time
not to exceed 10 years. Upon the expiration of the period of
time set forth in the conditions or, if none, at any time, the
legislative body of the city may provide by ordinance for the
withdrawal of the territory of the city from the district. The
withdrawal shall be effective upon the date fixed by the legisla-
tive body of the city in the ordinance, which date is on or after
the date of the adoption of the ordinance. Where the with-
drawal is effective on or before January 1st of the fiscal year
the district shall furnish fire protection services to the terri-
tory withdrawn until the first day of July next succeeding.
Where the withdrawal is effective subsequent to January 1st
of the fiscal year and the territory is subject to district taxa-
tion for the succeeding fiscal year the district shall furnish
fire protection services to the territory until the 30th day of
June of the fiscal year next succeeding.
   Immediately after the approval by the district board of an
ordinance of a city governing body including the city or por-
tion thereof, within the district, the clerk of the legislative
body of the city shall file a copy of the ordinance, describing
the territory included and the date of its inclusion, with the
governing body of the district. Immediately after the adoption
of an ordinance withdrawing the territory of a city from the
district, the clerk of the legislative body of the city shall file a
copy of the ordinance, describing the territory withdrawn and
the date of its withdrawal, with the governing body of the
district and with the tax levying authority of the district.
Whenever a copy of an ordinance including a city or portion
thereof, within the district, or a copy of an ordinance with-
drawing the territory of a city from a district, pursuant to this
section is filed with the district board, the tax levying au-
thority of the district shall comply with the requirements of
 Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 54900) of Part 1 of Divi-
sion 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 9. Section 56053 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56053. "Sufficient petition" means a petition which upon
its filing and certification, imposes a mandatory duty upon the
commission to hold a hearing and make determinations with
respect to the proposal contained in such petition.
2544               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQJj   \3Ql

   SEC. 10. Section 56060 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 11. Section 56068 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56068. "Reorganization" means one or more changes of
organization proposed for each of one or more subject
districts, including cities, landowner-voter districts or resident-
voter districts, the formation of one or more new districts or
any combination thereof, all such changes of organization and
formations being pursuant to a single plan of reorganization.
   The detachment of territory from one district and the an-
nexation of all or a portion of such territory to another dis-
trict shall not constitute a reorganization.
   SEC. 12. Section 56155 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56155. Bach certificate of the executive officer shall be
signed and dated. Such certificate shall also state the minimum
signature requirements for a sufficient petition and show the
results of the executive officer's examination.
   SEC. 13. Section 56156 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    56156. If the petition, including any supplemental petition,
shall be certified to be insufficient, it shall be filed with the
executive officer as a public record, without prejudice to the
filing of a new petition.
    SEC. 14. Section 56157 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    56157. If the petition, including any supplemental petition,
shall be certified to be sufficient, the executive officer shall set
the matter for hearing by the commission and give notice
thereof in the manner provided by Part 4 (commencing with
Section 56250) of this division. The executive officer shall give
mailed notice to the chief petitioners, if any, stating that the
petition has been found to be sufficient.
    SEC. 15. Section 56170 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56170. Petitions for the annexation or detachment of terri-
tory to or from a resident-voter district shall be signed as
follows:
    (1) By not less than 5 percent of the resident-voters within
the territory proposed to be annexed or detached, or
    (2) By not less than 5 percent of the number of landowners
within the territory proposed to be annexed or detached who
also own not less than 5 percent of the assessed value of land
within such territory.
   SEC. 16. Section 56172 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56172. Petitions for the consolidation of two or more resi-
dent-voter districts shall be signed by not less than 5 percent
of the resident-voters within each of the several districts.
   SEC. 17. Section 56173 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
                     1969
 Ch. 13011                  REGULAR SESSION                   2545

     56173. Petitions for the dissolution of a resident-voter
  district shall be signed as follows:
      (1) By not less than 5 percent of the resident-voters within
  the district, or
      (2) By not less than 5 percent of the number of landowners
  within the district who also own not less than 5 percent of the
  assessed value of land within the district.
     SEC. 18. Section 56174 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
     56174. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 56173, a
 petition for the dissolution of a resident-voter district, signed
 by three or more resident-voters within the district or by three
 or more landowners within a landowner-voter district, shall be
 deemed to be a sufficient petition, if, in addition to the matters
 required by Section 56140, such petition shall recite that the
 district has been in existence for at least three years and shall
 state, on information and belief, that there has been nonuser
 of the corporate powers of such district and that one or more
 of the following conditions have existed or now exist:
     (a) That during the three-year period preceding the date
 of the first signature upon the petition:
     (1) There has not been a duly selected and acting quorum
 of the board of directors of the district;
     (2) The board of directors has failed to furnish or provide
 services or facilities of substantial benefit to residents, land-
 owners or property within the district; or
    (3) The board of directors has failed to levy or fix and
 collect any taxes, assessments, service charges, rentals or rates
or to expend the proceeds thereof for district purposes.
     (b) That during the one-year period preceding the date of
the first signature upon the petition a quorum of the duly
selected and acting board of directors has failed or refused to
meet for the purpose of transacting district business.
    (c) That, upon the date of the first signature upon the
 petition, the district had no assets, other than money in the
form of cash, investments or deposits.
    SEC. 19. Section 56175 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    56175. Petitions for a merger of a resident-voter district
of limited powers which overlaps a city or for the establish-
ment of such district as a subsidiary district of such city shall
be signed as follows:
    (1) Five percent of the resident-voters of such district; or
    (2) Five percent of the registered voters residing within the
territory of the city outside the boundaries of said district.
    SEC. 20. Section 56180 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    56180. Petitions for the annexation or detachment of ter-
ritory to or from a landowner-voter district shall be signed
by not less than 5 percent of the number of landowners own-
ing land within the territory proposed to be annexed or de-
2546               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo   ^QJ

tached who also own not less than 5 percent of the assessed
value of land within such territory.
   SEC. 21. Section 56182 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56182. Petitions for the consolidation of two or more land-
owner-voter districts shall be signed by landowner-voters
within each of the several districts constituting not less than
5 percent of the number of landowner-voters owning land
within each of the several districts and who also own not
less than 5 percent of the assessed value of land within each
of the several districts.
   SEC. 22. Section 56183 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56183. Petitions for the dissolution of a landowner-voter
district shall be signed by not less than 5 percent of the
number of landowner-voters within the district who also own
not less than 5 percent of the assessed value of land within
such district.
   SEC. 23. Section 56184 of the Government Code is amended
to read :
   56184. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 56183, a
petition for the dissolution of a landowner-voter district
signed by three or more landowner-voters within the district
shall be deemed a sufficient petition if it contains the recitals
and statements provided for by Section 56174.
   SEC. 24. Section 56185 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56185. Petitions for a merger of a landowner-voter district
of limited powers which overlaps a city or for the establish-
ment of such district as a subsidiary district of such city
shall be signed as follows:
   (1) Five percent of the number of landowner-voters within
such district who also own not less than 5 percent of assessed
value of land within such district; or
   (2) Five percent of the registered voters residing within
the territory of such city outside the boundaries of the district.
   SEC. 25. Section 56190 of the Government Code is amended
to read .-
   56190. Petitions for reorganization shall be signed so as to
comply with the applicable signature requirements of Articles
3 (commencing with Section 56170) and 4 (commencing with
Section 56180) of this chapter with respect to each of the
various changes of organization proposed in such petition.
   SEC. 26. Section 56197 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 27. Section 56198 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56198. Upon the filing of a resolution of application, the
executive officer shall set the matter for hearing by the com-
mission and give notice thereof in the manner provided by
Part 4 (commencing with Section 56250) of this division.
   SEC. 28. Section 56211 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
                    1969
Ch. 13011                  REGULAR SESSION                 2547

    56211. Upon the presentation of any petition or applica-
 tions making a proposal for a reorganization, the commission
may take proceedings pursuant to Part 4 (commencing with
Section 56250) without referring said proposal to a reorgani-
zation committee, as provided in this Part 3.
    SEC. 29. Section 56212 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    56212. Before any such proposal shall be referred to any
reorganization committee, the commission may provide for a
public hearing on the question of whether such proposal should
be disapproved or referred to a reorganization committee and
set a time and place for such hearing.
    SEC. 30. Section 56260 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    56260. The commission may make the following determina-
tions without notice and hearing:
    (a) Approval or disapproval of any proposal for a minor
boundary change.
    (b) Disapproval of any proposal for a reorganization.
    (c) Subject to the limitations of Section 56261, approval of
a proposal for an annexation or detachment.
   Except for the foregoing determinations, the commission
shall not make any determinations upon any proposal, plan of
reorganization or report and recommendation of a reorganiza-
tion committee until after public hearing by the commission
thereon.
   SEC. 31. Section 56262 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    56262. Upon the filing with the executive officer of any
sufficient petition or resolution of application or any re-
port and recommendation of a reorganization committee,
said executive officer shall set the matter for public hearing
by the commission and fix a date, time and place for such
hearing. The date of the hearing shall not be more than 70
days after such filing.
    SEC. 32. Section 56263 of the Government Code is amended
to read •.
    56263. Prior to approval of any petition or resolution
of application presented to the commission pursuant to
Section 56157 or 56198, or where the commission desires to
provide for notice and hearing prior to making a determination
on a matter which the commission is authorized, but not re-
quired, to determine without notice and hearing, the commis-
sion shall order a public hearing thereon and set a date, time
and place for such hearing. The date of hearing shall not be
more than 70 days after the date of said order.
    SEC. 33. Section 56263.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    56263.1. If any sufficient petition or resolution of appli-
cation shall propose, as a part thereof, that the district shall
furnish gas or electric service, as provided in Sections 56017
 2548               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQ^   J3Q1

 to 56019, inclusive, a certified copy of the report of the Public
Utilities Commission must be on file with the executive officer
prior to setting any such petition or resolution for public hear-
ing by the commission.
    SEC. 34. Section 56315 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   56315. In any proceedings for the annexation of territory
to any district, where the terms and conditions provide for
the formation of such territory into a new improvement dis-
trict or the annexation of such territory to an existing im-
provement district and in any proceedings for the annexation
of territory to a benefit district, the board of directors shall
have the power and duty to exclude any lands proposed to be
annexed which said board finds will not be benefited by be-
coming a part of any such district or improvement district.
   For the purpose of completing any such proceedings, includ-
ing the findings provided for by Sections 56316 and 56317, any
land so excluded shall no longer be considered a part of the
territory proposed to be annexed.
   SEC. 34.2. Article 7 (commencing with Section 4650) is
added to Chapter 1, Part 3, Division 5 of the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
                     Article 7. Withdrawal
    4650. Territory within the Atherton Channel Drainage Dis-
 trict may be withdrawn from such district pursuant to Divi-
  sion 1 (commencing with Section 56000) of Title 6 of the Gov-
 ernment Code.
     SEC. 34.3. Section 56003.2 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
     56003.2. If any fire protection district or fire district shall
 be organized under Part 2.7 (commencing with Section 13801)
 of Division 12 of the Health and Safety Code, Chapter 1 (com-
 mencing with Section 14001) of Part 3, said Division 12, Chap-
 ter 2 (commencing with Section 14400) of Part 3, said Division
 12, or Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 14600) of Part 3,
 said Division 12, the foregoing laws shall provide an additional
 and alternative authority and procedure for the initiation,
 conduct and completion of detachments of territory from any
such district or for the dissolution thereof or for the inclusion
of a city or a portion thereof in a district. When a proceeding
for a detachment or dissolution is made pursuant to any of the
foregoing laws, only the provisions of such laws shall be appli-
cable to the initiation, conduct and completion of such pro-
ceedings, and this division and the repeals, amendments and
additions made by the act enacting this division shall not apply
thereto.
    SEC. 34.4. Section 32002 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
    32002. The manner of formation of local hospital districts,
and the conducting of elections, unless otherwise provided
                    1969
Ch. 13021                  REGULAR SESSION                   2549

herein shall be as in the manner provided by Chapter 1, Divi-
sion 2 of Title 6 of the Government Code. All of the provi-
sions of said chapter are hereby incorporated in this division
by reference and shall have the same effect and force as if
fully set forth herein. In addition to all other requirements
regarding formation of hospital districts, no hearing upon the
petition to form a hospital district shall be held until there
shall have been filed with the supervising authority a certificate
from the State Department of Public Health stating its find-
ings in accordance with the standards established for allocated
funds under the California Hospital Survey and Construction
Act, upon the following facts:
   (a) The need for hospital beds in the hospital service area
to be served.
   (b) The fulfillment of needs in the service area based upon
hospital beds in existence or under construction.
   (c) Upon request of the supervising authority the State
Department of Public Health shall furnish its findings regard-
ing (a) and (b).
   SEC. 35. Section 5780.8 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   5780.8. In the event of conflict between the provisions of
this chapter and those of Division 1 (commencing with Sec-
tion 56000) Title 6 of the Government Code, the provisions
of Division 1, Title 6 shall prevail.


                        CHAPTER 1302
An act to amend Sections 69894.1, 69895, 69900, 69995, 70046.2,
  70047, 70048, 70050.5, 70057, 70102, 70130, 70141.6, 70141.7,
  70141.10, 73076, 73084.1, 73084.2, 73084.3, 73084.4, 73084.5,
  73085.1, 73085.2, 73085.3, 73085.4, 73085.5, 73085.6, 73086,
  73087, 73088, 73089, 73090, 73090.1, 73433.5, 73444, 73482,
  73483, 73484, 73485, 73486, 73487, 73488, 73562, 73563,
  73642, 73643, 73648, 73649, 73674, 73676, 73677, 73682,
  73683, 73694, 73772, 73773, 73781, 73911, 73912, 73914,
  73915, 73952, 73953, 73958, 73959, 74002, 74003, 74004,
  74132, 74134, 74135, 74136, 74137, 74138, 74139, 74192,
  74193, 74194, 74195, 74196, 74222, 74223, 74342, 74343,
  74343.1, 74343.2, 74344, 74350, 74357, 74361 74364, 74369,
  74374, 74376, 74502, 74503, 74504, 74642, 74644, 74644.1,
  74693, 74693.2, 74702, 74703, 74722, 74723, 74802, 74803,
  74804, 74805, 74806, 74807, 74808, 74844, 74845, 74846,
  74847, 74904, 74905, 74906, 74907, 74908, 74912, 74922,
  74923, 74924, and 74925 of, to amend, the heading of Article
  9 (commencing with Section 73640) of Chapter 10 of Title 8
  of, to add Sections 69994, 69994.1, 69994.2, 69994.3, 69994.4,
  69994.5, 69994.6, 69994.7, 69994.8, 69994.9, 70141.11,
  72604.1, 73432, 73433, 73433.7, 73438.1, 73822, 73823, 73824,
  and 74352 to, to add Article 32.1 (commencing with Section
2550              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Q}y J3Q2

  74815) and Article 37 (commencing with Section 74934) to
  Chapter 10 of Title 8 of, and to repeal Sections 69994, 73432,
  73433, 73433.7, 73490, 73822, 73823, 73824, 73825, and 74352
  of, the Government Code, relating to courts.
         [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 69894.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  69894.1. In each county with a population of over 6,000,000
a majority of the judges of the superior court may appoint
the following officers and employees whose salaries shall be:
Number         Title                               Schedule
   5 Accounting clerk                                  32
   2 Accounting technician                             36
   1 Administrative analyst                            55
  14 Administrative secretary                        - 41
   1 Assistant jury commissioner                       58
   1 Assistant executive officer                       69
   1 Assistant supervising conciliation counselor      64
   1 Assistant supervising counselor, mental health__ 60
   1 Assistant supervising probate attorney            70
   1 Assistant supervising traffic hearing officer     60
   2 Chief clerk                                       47
  45 Clerk I                                           24
  65 Clerk II                                          28
  35 Clerk I I I                                       34
  18 Clerk III—Secretary                               35
   2 Clerk IV                                          41
  18 Conciliation counselor                            60
  38 Counselor                                         49
  30 Court commissioner                                75
 205 Court reporter                                    60
   1 Court reporter assignment clerk                   40
   1 Court statistician                                49
   1 Criminal courts coordinator                       59
   1 Director administrative services              — 63
   1 Director counselor services                       71
   1 Driver-messenger                                  32
   1 Duplicating and mail unit supervisor              35
   1 Executive assistant                               59
   1 Executive officer                                 82
   1 Executive secretary                               51
   1 Finance officer                                   58
  10 Interpreter                                       34
   1 J u r y commissioner                              65
   5 J u r y interviewer                               42
   1 J u r y qualification supervisor                  46
                    1969
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2551
Number      Title                                    Schedule
  25 Juvenile traffic hearing officer                    54
  19 Law clerk                                           47
   5 Legal research assistant                            40
  27 Legal secretary                                     37
   1 Offset duplicator operator                          30
   1 Payroll records supervisor                          41
   1 Personnel officer                                   58
   3 Principal counselor                                 57
   6 Probate checker                                     40
  15 Probate attorney                                    66
   1 Procurement assistant _                             37
   1 Property and services coordinator                   51
   4 Property custodian-auditor                          33
   1 Psychiatric physician                    . F D $108
  38 Referee                                             72
   1 Research attorney                                   66
   1 Secretary and assignment clerk                      37
   1 Secretary and personnel clerk                       37
   1 Secretary to executive officer                      48
   1 Senior administrative assistant      _ _            49
  20 Senior counselor           . . - .              _ _ 53
  30 Senior judicial secretary                           39
  10 Senior juvenile traffic hearing officer             56
   1 Senior property custodian-auditor                   39
  12 Senior stenographic secretary                       44
   1 Supervising conciliation counselor                  68
   1 Supervising counselor, mental health                68
   1 Supervising judicial secretary             _ _      51
   1 Supervising juvenile traffic hearing officer        64
   1 Supervising probate attorney                        75
   1 Supervising referee                                 75
   1 Supply clerk         _ -                            31
   Whenever a reference to a numbered salary schedule is made
in this section that found in the salary ordinance of the County
of Los Angeles shall apply. Reduction of the schedule appli-
cable to a class by reason of the adoption of this salary plan
or subsequent reclassification of positions for organizational
purposes shall not result in a lower salary rate to incumbents
of such positions. The court is authorized to regulate by rule
the status of employees so affected.
   All personnel appointed pursuant to this article shall serve
at the pleasure of the court and may at any time be removed
by the court in its discretion.
   SEC. 1.1. Section 69895 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   69895. In any county or city and county with a population
of less than 850,000 but more than 730,000, as ascertained pur-
suant to Section 28020, the superior court shall appoint an
executive officer who shall act as secretary to the judges of the
superior court and perform the duties of j u r y commissioner
2552              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQJj J3Q2

pursuant to Section 69893, the salary of the executive officer
shall be a minimum salary of two thousand ninety dollars
($2,090) monthly during first year of service, two thousand
one hundred ninety-one dollars ($2,191) monthly during sec-
ond year of service, two thousand two hundred ninety-five dol-
lars ($2,295) monthly during third year of service, and two
thousand four hundred ten dollars ($2,410) monthly during
fourth year of service and thereafter.
   In such a county or city and county, on the authorization
of the judges, the executive officer shall have three adminis-
trative assistants who shall each receive a salary of one thou-
sand two hundred sixty-five dollars ($1,265) monthly during
first year of service, one thousand three hundred twenty-five
dollars ($1,325) during second year of service, one thousand
three hundred eighty dollars ($1,380) monthly during third
year of service, and one thousand four hundred fifty dollars
 ($1,450) monthly during fourth year of service and thereafter,
and two assistant secretaries who shall be paid a minimum
salary of nine hundred seventy dollars ($970) monthly for the
first year of service, a salary of one thousand dollars ($1,000)
monthly during the second year of service, a salary of one
thousand fifty dollars ($1,050) monthly during third year of
service, and a maximum salary of one thousand one hundred
dollars ($1,100) monthly thereafter.
   The increment shall be paid commencing on the first day of
the month following the first, second, and third anniversary
of the incumbent's appointment. All service included prior to
the effective date of the amendment to this section enacted at
the 1969 Kegular Session of the Legislature shall constitute
service for purpose of determining entitlement to increments.
   The administrative assistants shall assist also in the perform-
ance of the duties of jury commissioner. The salaries of the
executive officer and administrative assistants and such as-
sistants shall be paid by the county or city and county in which
they serve.
   The court may delegate to the executive officer any admin-
istrative powers and duties as are now or hereafter by law
may be vested in or required to be exercised by such court.
   SEC. 1.2. Section 69900 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   69900. In each county or city and county with a popula-
tion of over 730,000 and under 850,000, as determined by the
1960 federal census, a majority of the judges of the superior
court may appoint the following employees, whose monthly
salaries shall be as set forth hereafter:
                                      Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4
Eight judicial secretaries            $735 $753 $772 $807
One senior clerk                       725    740    761    782
Two information clerks                  620    635    651    688
One calendar clerk                     772     800    825    865
                    1D69
Ch. 13021                  REGULAR SESSION                2553

                                   Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4
One chief calendar clerk           1,165 1,215 1,265 1,325
One domestic relations
  commissioner                     1,345 1,380 1,415 1,485
Four deputy domestic relations
  commissioners                    1,020 1,050 1,075 1,128
One counselor of conciliation      1,200 1,230 1,260 1,320
One counselor in mental health     1,286 1,350 1,417 1,488
Three court commissioners          1,775 1,819 1,863 1,956
Four assistant court commissioners 1,171 1,229 1,290 1,357
Four juvenile referees             1,779 1,819 1,863 1,956
One administrative assistant
  (juvenile court)                 1,090 1,135 1,175 1,235
   All figures in the above columns represent the salaries to be
paid monthly to each of the employees so appointed. All origi-
nal appointments shall be at step 1, provided that on the first
of the month following the first anniversary of the employee's
appointment he shall advance to the second step, and there-
after on the first of the month following the second anniversary
of the employee's appointment he shall advance to step 3, and
thereafter on the first of the month following the third anni-
versary of the employee's appointment he shall advance to
step 4, and thereafter shall be paid at the rate established
by step 4. Service in any position enumerated herein prior
to the effective date of the amendments to this section enacted
at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature shall consti-
tute service for the purpose of determining the step at which
the attache is to be paid. Service in any position wherein sub-
stantially the same duties have been performed shall also be
deemed service for the purpose of determining at which step
the attache is to be paid.
   With the approval of the board of supervisors the court may
establish such additional titles and pay rates as are required
and with the approval of the board of supervisors may appoint
and employ such additional commissioners, officers and assist-
ants and other employees as it deems necessary for the per-
formance of the duties and exercise of the powers conferred
by law upon it and its members. Rates of compensation of all
officers and assistants and other employees, except those of the
executive officer and court commissioners, may be adjusted by
 joint action and approval of the board of supervisors and a
majority of the judges of the court. Such appointments or
changes in compensation made pursuant to this paragraph
shall be on an interim basis and shall expire 60 days after the
final adjournment of the next regular session of the Legisla-
ture unless ratified at such session.
   The salaries of such employees shall be paid by the county
or city and county in which they serve.
   SEC. 1.3. Section 69994 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
2554              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [QJ^ 2302

   SEC. 1.4. Section 69994 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   69994. This article shall apply in a county having a pop-
ulation of more than 490,000 and less than 503,000, as deter-
mined by the 1960 federal census. The judges of the superior
and municipal courts of such county, a majority concurring,
may appoint as many regular official phonographic reporters
as may be necessary to report the proceedings, in the courts of
the county and to perform such other duties as are prescribed
by law. The number of reporters so appointed shall not exceed
the number of offices of judges provided by law for superior
and municipal courts of such county. Such reporters shall hold
office during the pleasure of the judges of such court, a ma-
jority concurring.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 69994.1 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   69994.1. When needed in order that the judicial business
of the courts in such county may be carried on without delay,
the judges of such courts may appoint as many additional
phonographic reporters as the business of the courts may re-
quire, who shall be known as official reporters pro tempore, and
who shall be compensated at the rate of fifty-five dollars ($55)
per day.
   SEC. 1.6. Section 69994.2 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   69994.2. The regular official phonographic reporters shall
be compensated at an annual salary of fourteen thousand five
hundred fifty-six dollars ($14,556), except that such reporters
may be employed at an annual salary of thirteen thousand two
hundred twenty-four dollars ($13,224) for the first year of
service, and at an annual salary of thirteen thousand eight
hundred sixty dollars ($13,860) for the second year of service.
   SEC. 1.7. Section 69994.3 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   69994.3. In addition to the compensation provided in this
article, each salaried official reporter shall be entitled to, and
shall receive, vacation and sick leave allowances, retirement,
and other privileges and benefits as are now. or may hereafter
be provided for the employees of the County of Sacramento,
including the right to participate in any group accident,
health, or life insurance plan adopted by the board of super-
visors of the county.
   For the purpose of such retirement system, the salary or
compensation provided for reporters in this article shall be
deemed their entire compensation.
   SEC. 1.8. Section 69994.4 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   69994.4. No further fee than that herein provided shall be
collected from, or assessed against, any party to any proceed-
ing for the services of a phonographic reporter in taking down
in shorthand the testimony and other proceedings in the trial
                    1969
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2555

or hearing of any matter as required by law or by order of
the court, except that in a civil case when a daily transcript
is ordered by a party, such party shall pay for the services of
a pro tempore reporter if required; but a phonographic re-
porter shall be allowed, and shall receive, unless waived by
him, the fees allowed by law for transcribing his shorthand
notes of the testimony and proceedings reported by him, and
such fees for transcription shall be paid as provided by law.
   SEC. 1.9. Section 69994.5 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   69994.5. The salaries provided for in this article shall be
paid in monthly installments from the general fund of the
county, and shall be allowed and audited in the same manner
as other salary demands against the county.
   SEC. 1.10. Section 69994.6 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   69994.6. This section shall be applicable to the superior
court.
   (1) In addition to any fee otherwise required, a fee of ten
dollars ($10) shall be paid to the county clerk by each party,
or jointly by parties appearing jointly in each of the following
instances:
   (a) Where Section 26821 requires such party or parties to
pay the county clerk a fee for the filing of the first paper in
a civil action or in a special proceeding, except in an appeal
from an inferior court.
   (b) Where Sections 26822 to 26825, inclusive, require such
party or parties to pay the county clerk a fee for filing papers
transmitted from another court on the transfer of a civil action
or special proceeding from another court, except in an appeal
from an inferior court.
   (c) Where Section 26826 requires such party or parties to
pay the county clerk a fee for the appearance in a civil action
or special proceeding of a defendant, intervenor, respondent,
correspondent or adverse party, except in an appeal from an
inferior court; provided, however, if any of the parties named
in this paragraph shall appear jointly they shall pay but such
additional fee of ten dollars ($10) as in this section provided.
   (d) Where Section 26827 requires such party or parties to
pay the county clerk a fee for the filing of a petition or other
paper in a probate or guardianship matter.
   (2) All fees paid under this section shall be taxed as costs.
    (3) The county clerk shall, on or before the first day of
each calendar month, transmit to the county treasurer all
money paid to him pursuant to this article during the preced-
ing calendar month, up to the day immediately preceding the
day on which he transmits such money, and such money shall
be deposited in the general fund of such county.
   SEC. 1.11. Section 69994.7 is added to the Government
 Code, to read:
2556              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r Q n J3Q2

    69994.7. In all civil cases tried in the municipal court, the
services of a reporter shall be had only upon the request of any
party or parties to the action, and such party or parties
 shall pay therefor the per diem rate of official reporters pro
tempore provided for in this article. The payment shall be
made to the county clerk. Such payments are taxable as costs.
    SEC. 1.12. Section 69994.8 is added to the Government
 Code, to read:
    69994.8. All reporters appointed pursuant to this article
 shall be known as official court reporters of the County of Sac-
 ramento. As attaches of the court, official reporters shall not
 be subject to the authority of any county administrative of-
fice or civil service commission.
    SEC. 1.13. Section 69994.9 is added to the Government
 Code, to read:
    69994.9. With the approval of the board of supervisors the
 court may establish such additional classifications and rates of
compensation as are required. Rates of compensation of regular
 official phonographic reporters may be adjusted by approval
 of the board of supervisors and a majority of the judges of the
 courts. Such appointments or changes in compensation made
 pursuant to this paragraph shall be on an interim basis and
 shall expire 60 days after the final adjournment of the next
 regular session of the Legislature unless ratified at such ses-
 sion.
    SEC. 1.14. Section 69995 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    69995. In each county with a population of more than 110,-
000 and less than 120,000, as determined by the 1950 federal
census, as full compensation for reporting the proceedings in
criminal cases in the superior court, proceedings before the
juvenile court, proceedings held under the provisions of Part 1
 (commencing with Section 5000) of Division 6 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code and proceedings held under the provi-
sions of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 7050) of Part 4
of Division 6 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, each regu-
lar official court reporter shall receive a monthly salary of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750). All other fees of such re-
porters shall be as elsewhere provided by law. In cases where
a pro tempore official reporter is appointed, he shall receive
the fees elsewhere provided by law.
   SEC. 2. Section 70046.2 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   70046.2. In a county with a population of over 350,000 and
not over 390,000, as determined by the 1960 federal decennial
census, each reporter shall be paid an annual salary of
twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) and each pro tempore re-
porter shall be paid forty-five dollars ($45) per day for the
days he actually is on duty under order of the court. In such
a county, the fee required by Section 70053 shall be nine
dollars and fifty cents ($9.50).
                    1969
Ch. 13021                  REGULAR SESSION                  2557

   SEC. 3. Section 70047 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   70047. In a county with a population of over 395,000 and
under 420,000, as determined on the basis of the 1960 federal
census, each regular official reporter shall be paid an annual
salary of fourteen thousand four hundred dollars ($14,400),
and each pro tempore official reporter shall be paid fifty dol-
lars ($50) a day for the days he actually is on duty under
order of the court.
   During the hours which the court is open for the transaction
of the judicial business, the regular official reporter shall per-
form the duties required by law. When not engaged in the
performance of any other duty imposed upon him by law, he
shall render stenographic or clerical assistance to the judge
of the court to which he is assigned as such judge may direct.
   SEC. 4. Section 70048 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   70048. In a county with a population of 1,000,000 and
under 2,000,000, as determined by the 1960 federal census,
regular official phonographic reporters shall be paid an annual
salary of sixteen thousand dollars ($16,000).
   Official phonographic reporters pro tempore shall be com-
pensated at the rate of fifty-five dollars ($55) a day, or any
fractional part thereof.
   SEC. 5. Section 70050.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   70050.5. In each county with a population of 730,000 and
under 850,000, as determined by the 1960 federal census, the
annual salary of the regular official phonographic reporters
shall be fifteen thousand eight hundred forty dollars ($15,840),
and the compensation of the official phonographic reporters
pro tempore shall be at the rate of fifty-five dollars ($55) a
 day, or any fractional part thereof.
    SEC. 6. Section 70057 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    70057. In a county with a population of 1,000,000 and
 under 2,000,000, as determined by the 1960 federal census, the
 fee required by Section 70053 shall be eleven dollars and fifty
 cents ($11.50).
    SEC. 6.1. Section 70102 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    70102. In each county with a population of 850,000 and
 under 1,000,000, as determined by the 1960 federal census,
 the annual salary of the regular official phonographic reporters
 shall be fourteen thousand forty dollars ($14,040), and the
 compensation of the official phonographic reporters pro tempore
 shall be at the rate of fifty-five dollars ($55) a day, or any
 fractional part thereof. All phonographic reporters appointed
 at an annual salary pursuant to this section shall be allowed
 vacation leave and sick leave annually as provided in the an-
 nual salary ordinance for other county employees.
2558               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               ("QJj 1302

    SEC. 7. Section 70130 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    70130. (a) In a county with a population of over 140,000
 and not over 147,000 as determined by the 1960 federal de-
 cennial census, within which there is located a facility of the
 Department of Corrections of the State of California, the
 monthly salary of each full-time official reporter shall notwith-
 standing any other provision of law be as follows: for the first
 year of service commencing upon the effective date of the
 amendments made to this section during the 1969 Regular
 Session of the Legislature, one thousand one hundred ninety-
 five dollars ($1,195) ; for the first year thereafter, one thou-
 sand two hundred fifty-five dollars ($1,255) ; for the next year
 thereafter, one thousand three hundred eighteen dollars
  ($1,318) ; for the next year, one thousand three hundred
 eighty-five dollars ($1,385) ; and thereafter, one thousand four
hundred fifty-four dollars ($1,454).
    Any succeeding appointee to an official reporter position
 shall be compensated at the first step and advance to each
higher step upon completion of each year of service. If the
board of supervisors approves, new official reporters may be
 employed at the second or third step. Any official reporter
who has previously elected to be paid on a per diem basis
may continue on that basis.
     (b) The compensation for each official reporter pro tempore
 shall be fifty dollars ($50) a day for each day he actually
is on duty under order of the court.
    (c) In addition to the compensation provided in this article,
each full-time reporter of the superior court shall be entitled
to, and shall receive, the same vacation, sick leave, and similar
privileges and benefits as are now, or may hereafter be pro-
vided for the employees of the County of Marin, including
the right to participate in any group, accident, health or life
insurance plan adopted by the board of supervisors of the
county.
    SEC. 7.1. Section 70141.6 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    70141.6. In any county with a population exceeding 220,-
000 and not exceeding 235,000, as determined by the 1950 fed-
eral census, the superior court may provide that the commis-
sioner, in addition to the duties prescribed in Section 259 of
the Code of Civil Procedure, shall perform the duties pre-
scribed by Section 259a of the Code of Civil Procedure and
in addition thereto the duties of a probate commissioner ap-
pointed pursuant to Section 69897 of this code. Any commis-
sioner authorized to perform such duties shall receive a
monthly salary in accordance with the following salary range
of five annual steps; one thousand four hundred ten dollars
 ($1,410) a month for the first year; one thousand four hundred
eighty-one dollars ($1,481) a month for the second year; one
thousand five hundred fifty-one dollars ($1,551) a month for
                    l9g9
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2559

the third year; one thousand six hundred thirty-three dollars
 ($6,633) a month for the fourth year; and one thousand seven
hundred fifteen dollars ($1,715) a month for the fifth year.
He shall also be allowed actual traveling expenses pursuant to
Section 70148.
   SEC. 8. Section 70141.7 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   70141.7. In any county with a population exceeding 503,000
and not exceeding 600,000, as determined by the 1960 federal
census, the superior court may provide that the commissioner,
in addition to the duties prescribed in Section 259 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, shall perform the duties prescribed by
Section 259a of the Code of Civil Procedure and in addition
thereto the duties of a probate commissioner appointed pur-
suant to Section 69897 of this code. Any commissioner author-
ized to perform such duties shall receive a monthly salary in
accordance with the following salary range of five annual
steps; one thousand six hundred seventy-four dollars ($1,674)
a month for the first year; one thousand seven hundred fifty-
eight dollars ($1,758) a month for the second year; one thou-
sand eight hundred forty-six dollars ($1,846) a month for the
third year; one thousand nine hundred thirty-eight dollars
 ($1,938) a month for the fourth year; and two thousand
thirty-five dollars ($2,035) a month for the fifth year. He shall
also be allowed actual traveling expenses pursuant to Section
70148.
   SEC. 9. Section 70141.10 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   70141.10. In any county with a population exceeding
144,000 and not exceeding 147,000 as determined by the 1960
federal census, the superior court may provide that the com-
missioner, in addition to the duties prescribed in Section 259
of the Code of Civil Procedure, shall perform the duties pre-
scribed by Section 259a of the Code of Civil Procedure and
in addition thereto the duties of a probate commissioner ap-
pointed pursuant to Section 69897 of this code and such other
administrative duties as the court deems appropriate. Any
 commissioner authorized to perform such duties shall receive
 an annual salary of eighteen thousand dollars ($18,000). The
 salary shall be automatically increased periodically at the time
 and in the manner specified by Section 68203 and a commis-
 sioner shall not receive any other compensation for the per-
 formance of any assigned duties.
   SEC. 10. Section 70141.11 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
    70141.11. In any county with a population exceeding
 400,000 and not exceeding 410,000 as determined by the 1960
 federal census, the superior court may provide that the com-
 missioner and the referee who shall have been a member of the
 State Bar for a period of at least five years immediately pre-
 ceding his appointment and which referee has been appointed
 pursuant to Section 553 of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
    81—1954
2560               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ}1> J3Q2

 in addition to the duties prescribed in Section 259 of the
 Code of Civil Procedure, shall perform the duties prescribed
 by Section 259a of the Code of Civil Procedure and in addi-
 tion thereto the duties of a probate commissioner appointed
pursuant to Section 69897 of this code.
    This section shall not affect any of the powers or duties
 otherwise authorized for a referee appointed pursuant to Sec-
tion 553 of the "Welfare and Institutions Code.
    SEC. 11. Section 72604.1 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    72604.1. Notwithstanding Section 72604, there shall be an
official reporter in the Antelope Municipal Court District who
shall be an attache of the court. In lieu of any other compen-
sation provided by law for his services in reporting testimony
and proceedings in the court, the official reporter shall receive
a monthly salary equal to that provided by law for official re-
porters of the Los Angeles Municipal Court District.
   SEC. 12. Section 73076 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73076. The following salary schedule shall apply to all
persons employed by municipal courts in Alameda County:
                        Salary Schedule
Schedule
number          Stepl     Step 2     Step 3    Step 4     Step 5
  33        .    $436     $458       $481      $505       $530
  33.5            447       469        493       517        543
  34              458       481        505       530        556
  34.5            469       493        517       543        570
  35              481       505        530       556        584
  35.5            493       517        543       570        598
  36              505       530        556       584        613
 36.5             517       543        570       598        628
 37               530       556        584       613        644
 37.5             543       570        598       628        660
 38               556      584         613       644        676
 38.5            570       598        628        660       693
 39              584       613        644       676        710
 39.5            598       628        660       693        727
 40              613       644        676       710        745
 40.5            628       660        693       727        763
 41              644       676        710       745        782
 41.5            660       693        727       763        801
 42              676       710        745       782        821
 42.5            693       727        763       801        841
 43              710       745        782       821        862
 43.5            727       763        801       841        883
 44              745       782        821       862        905
 44.5            763       801        841       883        927
 45              782       821        862       905        950
 45.5            801       841        883       927        974
 46              821       862        905       950        998
Ch. 1302]           1969 REGULAR SESSION                   2561

Schedule
number         Step 1     Step 2    Step 3      Step 4   Step 5
  46.5           841        883       927        974     1,023
  47             862        905       950        998     1,048
  47.5           883        927       974      1,023     1,074
  48             905        950       998      1,048     1,100
  48.5           927        974     1,023      1,074     1,127
  49             950        998     1,048      1,100     1,155
  49.5           974      1,023     1,074      1,127     1,184
  50             998      1,048     1,100      1,155     1,213
  50.5         1,023      1,074     1,127      1,184     1,243
  51           1,048      1,100     1,155      1,213     1,274
  51.5         1,074      1,127     1,184      1,243     1,306
  52           1,100      1,155     1,213      1,274     1,338
  52.5         1,127      1,184     1,243      1,306     1,371
  53           1,155      1,213     1,274      1,338     1,405
  53.5         1,184      1,243     1,306      1,371     1,440
  54           1,213      1,274     1,338      1,405     1,475
  54.5         1,243      1,306     1,371      1,440      1,512
  55           1,274      1,338     1,405      1,475     1,549
  55.5         1,306      1,371     1,440      1,512      1,588
  56           1,338      1,405     1,475      1,549     1,626
  56.5         1,371      1,440     1,512      1,588      1,667
  57           1,405      1,475     1,549      1,626      1,707
  57.5         1,440      1,512     1,588      1,667      1,750
  58           1,475      1,549     1,626      1,707      1,792
  58.5         1,512      1,588     1,667      1,750      1,837
  59           1,549      1,626     1,707      1,792      1,882
  59.5         1,588      1,667     1,750      1,837      1,929
   SEC. 13. Section 73084.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73084.1. The clerk of the municipal court for the Oakland-
Piedmont Judicial District shall receive a monthly salary at
the rate specified in schedule number 55 of the salary schedule.
   SEC. 14. Section 73084.2 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73084.2. The clerk of the municipal court for the Alameda
Judicial District shall receive a monthly salary at the rate
specified in schedule number 47 of the salary schedule.
   SEC. 15. Section 73084.3 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73084.3. The clerk of the municipal court for the Berkeley-
Albany Judicial District shall receive a monthly salary at the
rate specified in schedule number 50 of the salary schedule.
   SEC. 16. Section 73084.4 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73084.4. The clerk of the municipal court for the San
 Leandro-Hayward Judicial District shall receive a monthly
 salary at the rate specified in schedule number 51 of the salary
schedule.
2562               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [Qh. 1302

    SEC. 17. Section 73084.5 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    73084.5. The clerk of the municipal court for the Fremont-
 Newark-Union City Judicial District shall receive a monthly
 salary at the rate specified by schedule number 49 of the salary
 schedule.
    SEC. 18. Section 73085.1 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    73085.1. Deputy clerks, division chiefs, shall receive a
 monthly salary at the rate specified in schedule number 48 of
 the salary schedule.
    SEC. 19. Section 73085.2 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    73085.2. Deputy clerks, chief deputies, shall receive a
 monthly salary at the rate specified in schedule number 45 of
 the salary schedule.
    SEC. 20. Section 73085.3 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    73085.3. Deputy clerks grade IV shall receive a monthly
 salary at the rate specified in schedule number 43 of the salary
 schedule.
    SEC. 21. Section 73085.4 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
   73085.4. Deputy clerks grade I I I shall receive a monthly
 salary at the rate specified in schedule number 41 of the salary
 schedule.
   SEC. 22. Section 73085.5 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
   73085.5. Deputy clerks grade I I shall receive a monthly
 salary at the rate specified in schedule number 37 of the salary
schedule, except as otherwise provided in Section 73089.
   SEC. 23. Section 73085.6 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73085.6. Deputy clerks grade I shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in schedule number 33 of the salary
schedule. Appointments to such position shall be at step 2 of
the schedule.
   SEC. 24. Section 73086 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73086. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article,
until 90 days after the adjournment of the next regular
session of the Legislature, whenever a higher compensation is
provided for positions in the class of clerk I I in the Alameda
County classified service, each person holding a position in the
class of deputy clerk I specified in this article, shall receive
correspondingly higher compensation up to but not exceed-
ing four steps on the pay schedule provided in Section 73076,
payable at the same time as that higher compensation provided
in the salary ordinance of Alameda County; and whenever a
higher compensation is provided for positions in the class of
superior court clerk I in the Alameda County classified serv-
                      19M
Ch. 1302]                   REOtTLAR SESSION                   2563

 ice, each person holding a position in the class of deputy clerk
 I I specified in this article, shall receive correspondingly higher
 compensation up to but not exceeding four steps on the pay
 schedule provided in Section 73076, payable at the same time
 as that higher compensation provided in the salary ordinance
 of Alameda County; and whenever a higher compensation is
 provided for positions in the class of superior court clerk I I
 in the Alameda County classified service, each person holding
 a position in the classes of deputy clerk III, deputy clerk IV,
 chief deputy clerk, division chief and clerk specified in this
 article shall receive correspondingly higher compensation up
 to but not exceeding four steps on the pay schedule provided
 in Section 73076, payable at the same time as that higher
 compensation provided in the salary ordinance of Alameda
 County.
    SEC. 25. Section 73087 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    73087. The clerk of the municipal court for the Alameda
 Judicial District may appoint the following deputy clerks:
     (a) One deputy clerk grade IV who shall act as chief
 deputy.
    (b) Three deputy clerks grade I I I .
    (c) Three deputy clerks grade II.
    (d) Two deputy clerks grade I.
    SEC. 26. Section 73088 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    73088. The clerk of the municipal court for the Berkeley-
 Albany Judicial District may appoint the following deputy
 clerks:
    (a) One chief deputy clerk.
    (b) Six deputy clerks grade IV.
     (c) Five deputy clerks grade I I I .
    (d) Nine deputy clerks grade II.
    (e) Three deputy clerks grade I.
    SEC. 27. Section 73089 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    73089. The clerk of the municipal court for the Oakland-
Piedmont Judicial District may appoint the following deputy
clerks:
    (a) Four deputy clerks, division chiefs, who shall be in
charge of the civil division, criminal division, traffic division
and accounting division.
    (b) Nineteen deputy clerks grade IV.
    (c) Thirteen deputy clerks grade I I I .
    (d) Thirty-four deputy clerks grade I I ; provided, that not
to exceed 10 such deputy clerks may be assigned to perform
duties as bail office tellers at the additional compensation of
two schedule numbers.
    (e) Nineteen deputy clerks grade I.
    SEC. 28. Section 73090 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
2564               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [(Jh. 1302

    73090. The clerk of the municipal court for the San
Leandro-Hayward Judicial District may appoint the follow-
ing deputy clerks:
    (a) One chief deputy clerk.
    (b) Seven deputy clerks grade IV.
    (c) Four deputy clerks grade III.
    (d) Twelve deputy clerks grade II.
    (e) Bight deputy clerks grade I.
    SEC. 29. Section 73090.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    73090.1. The clerk of the municipal court for the Fre-
mont-Newark-Union City Judicial District may appoint the
following deputy clerks:
    (a) Three deputy clerks grade IV.
    (b) One deputy clerk grade III.
    (c) Five deputy clerks grade II.
    (d) Four deputy clerks grade I.
    SEC. 30. Section 73432 of the Government Code is repealed.
    SEC. 32. Section 73432 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    73432. There shall be one clerk of the municipal court, ap-
pointed by a majority of the judges of the court. He shall re-
 ceive the biweekly salary specified in Range 49 of the salary
 schedule. The salary of the clerk of the municipal court shall
 be not less than 10 full range steps higher than the salary
 range in which the position of deputy municipal court clerk V
 is compensated.
    SEC. 33. Section 73433 of the Government Code is repealed.
    SEC. 34. Section 73433 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    73433. The clerk of the municipal court may appoint the
following subordinates, each of whom shall receive biweekly
 salaries in accordance with Sections 73433.5 and 73441:
    (a) One assistant, to be designated chief deputy municipal
 court clerk, who shall be the chief assistant to the clerk, who
 shall act under the direction of the clerk, who shall be empow-
 ered to act in the place and stead of the clerk in the event
 that the clerk is absent from his office or unavailable for any
reason, and who shall receive the biweekly salary specified in
Range 43 of the salary schedule. The salary of the chief deputy
 municipal court clerk shall be not less than five full range steps
 higher than the salary range in which the position of deputy
municipal court clerk V is compensated.
    (b) One deputy municipal court clerk V, who shall be chief
 clerk of the civil and small claims divisions of the court and
who shall receive the biweekly salary specified in Range 38
 of the salary schedule.
    (c) Three deputy municipal court clerks IV, who shall act
 as the chief clerks of the criminal, traffic, and court clerk divi-
 sions of the court, respectively, and each of whom shall receive
 the biweekly salary specified in Range 37.5 of the salary
 schedule.
                        1969
Ch. 1302]                      REGULAK SESSION               2565

   (d) Eight deputy municipal court clerks I I I , each of whom
shall receive the biweekly salary specified in Range 35.5 of the
salary schedule.
   (e) One account clerk I I I municipal court, who shall re-
ceive the biweekly salary specified in Range 34 of the salary
schedule.
   (f) Five deputy municipal court clerks II, each of whom
shall receive the biweekly salary specified in Range 32.5 of the
salary schedule.
   (g) One account clerk II municipal court, who shall re-
ceive the biweekly salary specified in Range 32 of the salary
schedule.
   (h) Eleven deputy municipal court clerks I, each of whom
shall receive the biweekly salary specified in Range 27.5 of the
salary schedule.
   (i) Four clerks I, each of whom shall receive the biweekly
salary specified in Range 24.5 of the salary schedule.
   The salaries specified in subdivisions (b) through (i), in-
clusive, of this section may be adjusted pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 73433.5.
   SEC. 35. Section 73433.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73433.5. The clerk and deputies clerk shall be paid bi-
weekly pursuant to the payroll procedures in effect in the
County of Kern.
   (a) When, in this article, reference is made to a numbered
range of the salary schedule, the following schedule of bi-
weekly five-step rates shall apply:

                          Biweekly Salaries
Range
 No.             A              B        C          D
 19.5         $113.61      $119.59    $125.57    $131.55   $138.45
 20            116.37       122.81     128.79     135.23    142.13
 20.5       __ 119.59       125.57     131.55     138.45    145.35
 21            122.81       128.79     135.23     142.13    149.03
 21.5          125.57       131.55     138.45     145.35    152.71
 22            128.79       135.23     142.13     149.03    156.39
 22.5          131.55       138.45     145.35     152.71    160.07
 23            135.23       142.13     149.03     156.39    164.20
 23.5       __ 138.45       145.35     152.71     160.07    168.35
 24         __ 142.13       149.03     156.39     164.20    172.48
 24.5          145.35       152.71     160.07     168.35    176.63
 25            149.03       156.39     164.20     172.48    181.23
 25.5          152.71       160.07     168.35     176.63    185.83
 26            156.39       164.20     172.48     181.23    190.43
 26.5       __ 160.07       168.35     176.63     185.83    195.03
 27            164.20       172.48     181.23     190.43    200.55
 27.5          168.35       176.63     185.83     195.03    205.14
 28            172.48       181.23     190.43     200.55    210.20
 28.5          176.63       185.83     195.03     205.14    215.72
2566            STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Ch. 1302
Range
 No.        A          B        C          D           E
 29       181.23    190.43    200.55     210.20     221.24
 29.5     185.83    195.03    205.14     215.72     226.30
 30        190.43   200.55    210.20     221.24     232.28
 30.5     195.03    205.14    215.72     226.30     237.80
 31       200.55    210.20    221.24     232.28     243.78
 31.5    . 205.14   215.72    226.30     237.80     249.76
 32       210.20    221.24    232.28     243.78     255.74
 32.5    . 215.72   226.30    237.80     249.76     262.18
 33      . 221.24   232.28    243.78     255.74     268.62
 33.5    . 226.30   237.80    249.76     262.18     275.06
 34       232.28    243.78    255.74     268.62     282.42
 34.5    . 237.80   249.76    262.18     275.06     288.86
 35       243.78    255.74    268.62     282.42     296.68
 35.5     249.76    262.18    275.06     288.86     303.58
 36      . 255.74   268.62    282.42     296.68     311.40
 36.5_     262.18   275.06    288.86     303.58     318.76
 37      . 268.62   282.42    296.68     311.40     327.04
 37.5     275.06    288.86    303.58     318.76     334.85
 38       282.42    296.68    311.40     327.04     343.60
 38.5     288.86    303.58    318.76     334.85     351.41
 39       296.68    311.40    327.04     343.60     360.61
 39.5    . 303.58   318.76    334.85     351.41     368.89
 40       311.40    327.04    343.60     360.61     378.55
 40.5     318.76    334.85    351.41     368.89     387.75
 41       327.04    343.60    360.61     378.55     397.41
 41.5     334.85    351.41    368.89     387.75     407.07
 42       343.60    360.61    378.55     397.41     417.19
 42.5     351.41    368.89    387.75     407.07     427.31
 43       360.61    378.55    397.41     417.19     438.35
 43.5     368.89    387.75    407.07     427.31     448.47
 44       378.55    397.41    417.19     438.35     459.96
 44.5     387.75    407.07    427.31     448.47     471.00
 45       397.41    417.19    438.35     459.96     482.96
 45.5     407.07    427.31    448.47     471.00     494.46
 46       417.19    438.35    459.96     482.96     506.88
 46.5     427.31    448.47    471.00     494.46     519.30
 47       438.35    459.96    482.96     506.88     532.64
 47.5     448.47    471.00    494.46     519.30     545.52
 48       459.96    482.96    506.88     532.64     558.86
 48.5     471.00    494.46    519.30     545.52     572.65
 49       482.96    506.88    532.64     558.86     586.92
 49.5     494.46    519.30    545.52     572.65     601.17
 50       506.88    532.64    558.86     586.92     616.35
 50.5     519.30    545.52    572.65     601.17     631.07
 51       532.64    558.86    586.92     616.35     647.17
 51.5     545.52    572.65    601.17     631.07     662.81
 52       558.86    586.92    616.35     647.17     679.36
 52.5     572.65    601.17    631.07     662.81     695.92
 53       586.92    616.35    647.17     679.36     713.40
                      1969
Ch. 13021                    EEGDLAE SESSION                    2567

Bange
 No.             A             B         C           D           E
 53.5         601.17         631.07   662.81      695.92      730.42
  54           616.35        647.17   679.36      713.40      748.82
 54.5          631.07        662.81   695.92      730.42      767.22
 55          . 647.17        679.36   713.40      748.82      786.54
 55.5        . 662.81        695.92   730.42      767.22      805.40
 56           679.36         713.40   748.82      786.54      825.64
 56.5         695.92         730.42   767.22      805.40      845.88
 57           713.40         748.82   786.54      825.64      867.04
 57.5         730.42         767.22   805.40      845.88      887.73
 58           748.82         786.54   825.64      867.04      910.27
 58.5         767.22         805.40   845.88      887.73      932.35
 59           786.54         825.64   867.04      910.27      955.80
 59.5         805.40         845.88   887.73      932.35      978.80

    (b) Within the positions set out in subdivision (a), there
shall be five step levels which shall be designated as '' step A , ' '
"step B , " "step C," "step D , " and "step E , " which are
defined as follows:
   " S t e p A " shall consist of the minimum rate of compensa-
tion for the position to which the salary range applies and
shall be the hiring rate for such position;
   " S t e p B " shall be the rate of compensation payable to any
person who has occupied his position for one (1) year on the
first day of the month following the anniversary of his ap-
pointment to the position;
   '' Step C ' ' shall be the rate of compensation payable to any
person who has occupied his position for two (2) years on the
first day of the month following the anniversary of his ap-
pointment to the position;
   " S t e p D " shall be the rate of compensation payable to any
person who has occupied his position for three (3) years on
the first day of the month following the anniversary of his
appointment to the position; and
   " S t e p E " shall be the rate of compensation payable to any
person who has occupied his position for four (4) years on the
first day of the month following the anniversary of his ap-
pointment to the position.
    (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article:
    (1) The minimum salary for each position shall normally be
"step A " for the position. If it is difficult to secure qualified
personnel at that step or if a person of unusual qualifications
is engaged, the court or the clerk, as the case may be, may hire
at any step of the salary range applicable to the position.
    (2) A majority of the judges of the court may place the
clerk in the step of the salary range to which he would be
entitled if he had been placed in "step C " of such salary
range on the effective date of his appointment as clerk.
    (3) If a deputy clerk changes his position to another posi-
tion of higher salary range, he shall receive the lowest amount
2568               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qfo J3Q2

provided in the salary range for the new position which is at
least equal to the amount he would have received if he had
been advanced one step higher in the salary range applicable
to his old position. If at the time such deputy clerk changes
his position to another of higher salary range he is receiving
the salary provided in '' step E " of the salary range applicable
to his old position, he shall receive the lowest amount provided
in the salary range for the newer position which is at least
equal to the salary provided in "step E " of such old position
plus the difference between the salaries provided in ' ' step D ' '
and in "step E " of such old position.
   (d) Certain positions in the municipal court are comparable
to certain positions in the classified civil service of the County
of Kern. The comparable positions are, respectively, as follows:

Municipal court classifications             County classifications
Deputy municipal court clerk V                    Legal clerk I I
Deputy municipal court clerk IV           Superior court clerk I I
Deputy municipal court clerk I I I         Superior court clerk I
Account clerk III, municipal court            Account clerk I I I
Deputy municipal court clerk I I                        Clerk IV
Account clerk II, municipal court              Account clerk I I
Deputy municipal court clerk I                    Typist-clerk I I
Clerk I                                            Typist-clerk I

   The salaries paid by the County of Kern to persons holding
 the positions in the classified service of the County of Kern
 hereinabove designated are paid in accordance with ordinances
 of said county adopted under the laws of the state and pur-
 suant to a standardized salary schedule which, with respect to
 the several steps and ranges set forth in subdivision (a) of this
section, is identical to the salary schedule in subdivision (a) of
this section. If and when the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Kern adjusts the salaries paid to persons holding
one or more of the respective positions among the county
classifications hereinabove set forth, the salaries paid to per-
sons holding each and every respective comparable position
among the municipal court classifications hereinabove set forth
shall be adjusted commensurately and in accordance with the
provisions of this section. Such adjustment shall be effective
the same date as the effective date of the action of said board
of supervisors applicable to the respective and comparable
county classifications. If such action by said board of super-
visors is effective on any date in 1969 prior to the effective
date of the amendment of this section by the Legislature
during the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature, commen-
surate adjustments in accordance with the provisions of this
section shall be made on the effective date of said amendment
with respect to each and every respective, affected and com-
parable position among the municipal court classifications
hereinabove set forth. No salary adjustment exceeding four
                     1969
Ch. 1302]                   REGULAR SESSION                     2569

full range steps in the respective salaries specified in Section
73433 and this section may be made pursuant to this subdivi-
sion. In the event any amendment to the standardized salary
schedule of Kern County and the steps and ranges in subdivi-
sion (a) of this section, impairs or alters the identity now
existing between the standardized salary schedule of Kern
County and the steps and ranges in subdivision (a) of this
section, the salaries of the comparable positions among the
municipal court classifications hereinabove set forth may not
thereafter be adjusted pursuant to this subdivision.
   SEC. 36. Section 73433.7 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 37. Section 73433.7 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   73433.7. No salary of the clerk or any deputy clerk of the
municipal court or any clerk employed in a position in the
office of the clerk of the court on the last court day immedi-
ately preceding the effective date of the amendments to this
article by the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature shall
be reduced except for cause relating to the discipline of such
employee or pursuant to the adjustment provisions of Section
73433.5.
   SEC. 38. Section 73438.1 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   73438.1. There shall be one judicial secretary, to be ap-
pointed by a majority of the judges of the court. The judicial
secretary shall hold office during the pleasure of the judges
of such court. The judicial secretary shall be considered an
attache of the court.
   The judicial secretary shall receive a biweekly salary at the
rate specified in Range 37 of the salary schedule commencing
at the step agreed upon by a majority of the judges of the
court.
   SEC. 39. Section 73444 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73444. The term " a t t a c h e , " as used in this article, means
the clerk of the municipal court, the deputy clerks, official
reporters, and the judicial secretary.
   SEC. 40. Section 73482 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73482. There shall be one clerk, who shall be the adminis-
trative officer and act as secretary to the judge and who shall
receive a salary in accordance with Section 73487.
   SEC. 41. Section 73483 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73483. The clerk may appoint:
    (a) One deputy clerk IV who shall be assistant administra-
tive officer and chief deputy.
    (b) Two deputy clerks I I I .
    (c) Three deputy clerks I I .
    (d) Three deputy clerks I.
2570              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Ch. 1302

   SEC. 41.1. Section 73484 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73484. There shall be one marshal who shall receive a sal-
ary of nine hundred fifty dollars ($950) a month.
   SEC. 42. Section 73485 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73485. The marshal may appoint:
   (a) Two deputy marshals.
   (b) Two clerk-typists II.
   SEC. 43. Section 73486 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73486. The following biweekly salary schedule shall apply
to persons employed in the clerk's office and marshal's office:
Salary
 range                                Steps
number                A       B        C       D        E
  18               $158.40 $166.40 $174.40 $183.20 $192.00
  18.5              162.40 170.40 178.40 187.20 196.80
  19                166.40 174.40 183.20 192.00 201.60
  19.5              170.40 178.40 187.20 196.80 206.40
  20                174.40 183.20 192.00 201.60 212.00
  20.5              178.40 187.20 196.80 206.40 216.80
  21                183.20 192.00 201.60 212.00 222.40
  21.5              187.20 196 80 206.40 216.80 228.00
  22                192.00 201.60 212.00 222.40 233.60
  22.5              196.80 206 40 216.80 228.00 239.20
  23                201.60 212.00 222.40 233.60 245.60
  23.5              206.40 216.80 228.00 239.20 251.20
  24                212.00 222.40 233.60 245.60 257.60
  24.5              216.80 228.00 239.20 251.20 264.00
  25                222.40 233.60 245.60 257.60 270.40
  25.5              228.00 239.20 251.20 265.00 276.80
  26                233.60 245.60 257.60 270.40 284.00
  26.5              239.20 251.20 264.00 276.80 291.20
  27                245.60 257.60 270.40 284.00 298.40
  27.5              251.20 264.00 276.80 291.20 305.60
  28                257.60 270.40 284.00 298.40 313.60
  28.5              264.00 276.80 291.20 305.60 321.60
  29                270.40 284.00 298.40 313.60 329.60
  29.5              276.80 291.20 305.60 321.60 337.60
  30                284.00 298.40 313.60 329.60 346.40
  30.5              291.20 305.60 321.60 337.60 355.20
  31                298.40 313.60 329.60 346.40 364.00
  31.5              305.60 321.60 337.60 355.20 372.80
  32                313.60 329.60 346.40 364.00 382.40
  32.5              321.60 337.60 355.20 372.80 392.00
  33                329.60 346.40 364.00 382.40 401.60
  33.5              337.60 355.20 372.80 392.00 411.20
  34                346.40 364.00 382.40 401.60 421.60
                     1969
Ch. 1302]                   REGULAR SESSION                     2571

 Salary
 range                              Steps
number                  A      B      C            D        E
  34.5                355.20 372.80 392.00       411.20   432.00
  35                  364.00 382.40 401.60       421.60   442.40
  35.5                372.80 392.00 411.20       432.00   453.60
  36                  382.40 401.60 421.60       442.40   464.80

  SEC. 44. Section 73487 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  73487. Persons employed in any of the positions authorized
by this article shall be paid the salary assigned to the following
ranges as set forth in the salary schedule contained in Section
73486:
  (a) Deputy clerk I                                Eange 21
   (b) Deputy clerk I I                             Eange 23
  (c) Deputy clerk I I I                            Range 25
  (d) Deputy clerk I V                              Range 28
  (e) Clerk                                         Range 33
  (f) Clerk-typist I I                              Range 21
  (g) Deputy marshal                                Range 29.5
   Subject to the provisions of the San Joaquin County Salary
Ordinance, each person employed in the clerk's office or mar-
shal's office, including the clerk but not including the marshal,
may receive an annual increase in salary of one step on his
assigned range until the employee reaches the maximum step
on the range assigned for his position. Thereafter no addi-
tional step increase shall be granted.
   SEC. 45. Section 73488 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73488. Certain classifications in the clerk's office and mar-
shal's office are deemed to be equivalent in job and salnry
level to certain classifications in the service of San Joaquin
County and whenever the salary of a classification in t\ >
service of San Joaquin County is adjusted by the b c r d of
supervisors, the salary of the comparable classification in the
clerk's office or marshal's office, as well as the related classifi-
cations hereinafter listed, shall be adjusted an equal number
of ranges on the salary schedule. Such adjustments shall b»
effective on the same date as the effective date of the action by
the board of supervisors as it applies to the county classifica-
tions, but such adjustments shall be effective only until 90
days after the final adjournment of the 1971 Regular Session
of the Legislature.
   (a) The classes of deputy clerk I in the clerk's office and
clerk-typist I I in the marshal's office are equivalent in job and
salary level to the class of clerk-typist I I in the service of San
Joaquin County. Whenever the class of clerk-typist I I is ad-
justed, the classes of deputy clerk I, deputy clerk I I , deputy
2572              STATUTES OP CALIFOKNIA                [Qfr   J3Q2

clerk I I I and clerk-typist I I shall be adjusted an equal number
of ranges on the salary schedule.
   (b) The class of deputy clerk IV is equivalent in job and
salary level to the class of superior court clerk in the service
of San Joaquin County. Whenever the class of superior court
clerk is adjusted, the classes of deputy clerk IV and clerk shall
be adjusted an equal number of ranges on the salary schedule.
   (c) "Whenever the salary of the class of deputy sheriff I
in the service of San Joaquin County is adjusted, the class of
deputy marshal shall be adjusted an equal number of ranges
on the salary schedule.
   SEC. 45.1. Section 73490 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 45.2. Section 73562 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73562. There shall be one clerk who shall receive a
monthly salary at the rate specified in range 38 of the salary
schedule provided in Section 73563.1.
   SEC. 45.3. Section 73563 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73563. The clerk may appoint:
   One deputy clerk grade I I I who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in range 31 of the salary schedule
provided in Section 73563.1.
   Five deputy clerks grade I I who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in range 29 of the salary schedule
provided in Section 73563.1.
   Ten deputy clerks grade I who shall receive a monthly sal-
ary at the rate specified in range 24 of the salary schedule
provided in Section 73563.1.
   SEC. 46. The heading of Article 9 (commencing with
Section 73640) of Chapter 10 of Title 8 of the Government
Code is amended to read:

            Article 9.   El Cajon Judicial District
   SEC. 47. Section 73642 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73642. There shall be one clerk who shall be appointed by
the judges of the court and who shall receive a monthly salary
at a rate specified in Schedule 42.5 of the salary schedule
provided in Section 74343.1. In no event shall the salary of
the clerk be less than ten (10) schedule ranges higher than
that specified for the position of chief deputy clerk.
   SEC. 48. Section 73643 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
  73643. The clerk may appoint with the approval of the
judges:
   (a) One chief deputy clerk who shall receive a monthly sal-
ary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 37.5.
   (b) Five deputy clerks IV, each of whom shall receive a
monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 34.
                    1969
Ch. 13021                  REGULAR SESSION                 2573

    (c) Fifteen deputy clerks I I I , each of whom shall receive
 a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 29.
    (d) Five deputy clerks II, each of whom shall receive a
 monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 26.
    (e) Five deputy clerks I, each of whom shall receive a
 monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 22. Appoint-
ments to this position shall be at step B of the schedule.
    (f) One deputy clerk stenographer who shall receive a
monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 28.5.
    The deputy clerk stenographer who was employed in this
court on July 15, 1968, shall be paid at a rate two (2)
 ranges higher for a period of 21 months from the effective date
 of this act, provided that she continues to be employed as a
deputy clerk stenographer for the period.
    (g) Four deputy clerks who shall be keypunch operators,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule No. 24.5. The deputy clerk assigned as supervising
keypunch operator shall receive a monthly salary at a rate two
 (2) schedules higher than that which such deputy clerk key-
punch operator was receiving prior to such assignment.
   The value, in dollars, of each monthly salary herein shall
be at the rates indicated opposite the respective schedule num-
ber in the salary schedule provided in Section 74343.1, and the
provisions of subdivisions (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of that
section are applicable to the attaches appointed pursuant to
this section.
   SEC. 49. Section 73648 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73648. (a) All persons holding positions on the 91st day
after any regular session of the Legislature shall continue in
their respective positions without further examination or qual-
ification and at the added compensation provided in this arti-
cle, including increments for continuous prior service in such
positions in the court. Any person whose title is changed as a
result of this act shall receive credit for continued service to
which he would be entitled under his previous position and
shall receive compensation at the step covering such length of
service. Thereafter, any increments earned by additional serv-
ice in grade shall take effect upon the first day of the month
following completion of such required service.
   (b) In addition to the compensation provided in this ar-
ticle, the attaches of the municipal court shall receive, and
they shall be entitled to the same vacations, sick leave, leaves
of absence and similar privileges and benefits as are now or
may hereafter be provided for the employees of the County
of San Diego, including the right to participate in a retirement
plan, and in any group health, accident or life insurance plan
adopted by the Board of Supervisors of San Diego County,
and in the tuition refund and suggestion awards programs
adopted by the board. Such privileges and benefits shall be
retroactively applied. The municipal court judges may adopt
2574               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [£]}_ X3Q2

rules for the conduct of and personnel privileges to be afforded
the attaches of the court.
     (c) All attaches may be appointed, promoted, removed, sus-
pended or discharged for cause by the appointing authority
subject in such appointment, promotion, removal, suspension
or discharge to civil service provisions applicable to the classi-
fied personnel of San Diego County. Whenever a person or
attache is appointed or promoted to a position, such person
or attache must serve a probationary period of at least six
months.
     (d) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 71183, a per-
son appointed by the clerk from an eligible list certified by
the Civil Service Commission of the County of San Diego to
 fill a temporary position established pursuant to Section
72150 and employed in such temporary position immediately
prior to the 91st day after the final adjournment of a regular
session of the Legislature, may be appointed by such clerk to
a like permanent position in such clerk's office without fur-
ther examination, qualification or certification on a civil serv-
ice eligible list; provided, that the number of such positions in
 the clerk's office has been increased by the last regular session
of the Legislature so as to make such temporary position a
permanent position.
     SEC. 50. Section 73649 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    73649. Official reporters in such municipal courts, ap-
pointed pursuant to Section 72194, shall be attaches of the
court and in lieu of any other compensation provided by law
for their services in reporting testimony in felony criminal
proceedings in the court, shall receive a monthly salary of
five hundred fifty dollars ($550). The salary shall be a charge
against the general fund of the county. For transcribing and
for reporting proceedings other than felony criminal proceed-
ings, the official reporters shall receive the fees provided by
Sections 69947 to 69953, inclusive, which shall upon order of
the court be a charge against the general fund of the county.
Pursuant to Section 72194, the judge of the court may ap-
point as many additional reporters as the business of the court
requires. The additional reporters shall be known as official
reporters pro tempore and they shall serve without salary but
shall receive the fees provided by Sections 69947 to 69953, in-
clusive, which shall upon order of the court be a charge against
the general fund of the county. An official reporter or an offi-
cial reporter pro tempore may be appointed to serve as such
reporter in more than one municipal court in the County of
San Diego.
    SEC. 51. Section 73674 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    73674. The clerk may appoint: (a) one chief deputy clerk;
(b) four senior deputy clerks; (c) seven deputy clerks I I or
deputy clerks I as may be determined by the judge with the
                   1969
Ch. 13021                 REGULAR SESSION               2575

concurrence of the board of supervisors. Bach of these em-
ployees shall receive the monthly salary specified in Section
73677 for his classification.
   SEC. 52. Section 73676 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73676. Whenever a reference to a salary range number is
made in this article, the following schedule of monthly sal-
aries shall apply:
                        Salary Schedule
Salary range
  number                 Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5
     18                   $376   $395   $415    $436   $458
     18!                   385    405    425     447    469
     19                    395    415    436     458     481
     194                   405    425    447     469     493
     20                    415    436    458     481     505
     20!                   425    447    469     493     517
     21                    436    458    481     505     530
     21!                   447    469    493     517     543
     22                    458    481    505     530    556
     22!                   469    493    517     543     570
     23                    481    505    530     556     584
     23|                   493    517    543     570     598
     24                    505    530    556     584    613
     24!                   517    543    570     598    628
     25                    530    556    584     613    644
     25!                   543    570    598     628    660
     26                    556    584    613     644    676
     26!                   570    598    628     660    693
     27                    584    613    644     676    710
     27!                   598    628    660     693    727
     28                    613    644    676     710    745
     28!                   628    660    693     727    763
     29                    644    676    710     745    782
     29!                   660    693    727     763    801
     30                    676    710    745     782    821
     30!                   693    727    763     801     841
     31                    710    745    782     821     862
     31!                   727    763    801     841     883
     32                    745    782    821     862     905
     32!                   763    801    841     883     927
     33                    782    821    862     905     950
     33!                   801    841    883     927     974
     34                    821    862    905     950     998
     34!                   841    883    927     974 1,023
     35                    862    905    950     998 1,048
     35!                   883    927    974 1,023    1,074
     36                    905    950    998 1,048    1,100
     36!                   927    974 1,023 1,074      1,127
     37                    950    998 1,048 1,100     1,155
     37!                   974 1,023 1,074 1,127      1,184
2576               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               |"Ch_ 13Q2

Salary range
  number                 Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5
    38                     998 1,048 1,100 1,155 1,213
    381                  1,023 1,074 1,127 1,184 1,243
    39                   1,048 1,100 1,155 1,213 1,274
    39^                  1,074 1,127 1,184 1,243 1,306
    40                   1,100 1,155 1,213 1,274 1,338
    40i                  1,127 1,184 1,243 1,306 1,371
    41                   1,155 1,213 1,274 1,338      1,405
    41i                  1,184 1,243 1,306 1,371 1,440
    42                   1,213 1,274 1,338 1,405 1,475
    42i                  1,243 1,306 1,371 1,440 1,512
    43                   1,274 1,338 1,405 1,475 1,549
    43i                  1,306 1,371 1,440 1,512 1,587
    44                   1,338 1,405 1,475 1,549      1,626
    44£                  1,371 1,440 1,512 1,587 1,666
    45                   1,405 1,475 1,549 1,626 1,707

   SEC. 53. Section 73677 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73677. Persons employed in any of the positions author-
ized by this article shall be paid the salary assigned to the
following ranges as set in the salary schedule contained in
Section 73676.
   (a) Deputy clerk I                                Range 20
   (b) Deputy clerk I I                              Range 21
   (c) Senior deputy clerk                           Range 23
   (d) Chief deputy clerk                            Range 26
   (e) Clerk                                         Range 35

   Each person employed on the effective date of this section
in the office of the clerk, including the clerk, shall receive
credit for prior continuous service in office including service
in departments superseded upon the establishment of the mu-
nicipal court, and his prior service shall be deemed service in
the new position, provided, however, that such credit shall be
given only when the judge of the court determines that the
officer or employee is entitled to receive it. Officers and em-
ployees shall be appointed at the first step for the range as-
signed to their classification except if it is difficult to secure
qualified personnel, or if a person of unusual qualifications is
appointed, the judge may appoint such person at the second
step of the range assigned to that classification.
   In the case of the appointment of the clerk of the municipal
court, the judge shall be authorized, if he deems it necessary,
to appoint the clerk at a higher step, not to exceed the fifth
step of the range assigned to that classification as set forth in
Section 73676, and, provided further, that if the judge is
unable to secure a qualified person to fulfill the position of
clerk of the municipal court for a salary as hereinabove pro-
Ch. 1302]           1969 REGULAR SESSIOtf                 2577

vided, then the judge with the concurrence of the board of
supervisors may establish a salary at a rate not to exceed one
thousand one hundred dollars ($1,100) monthly.
    SEC. 54. Section 73682 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73682. There shall be one clerk to be appointed by the
judges of the court in the manner provided by law who shall
be the clerk, administrator and secretary of the court. He
shall receive a monthly salary at the rate specified in range
79 of the salary schedule set forth in Section 73684.
   SEC. 55. Section 73683 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73683. The clerk may appoint the following court per-
sonnel who shall receive a salary at the range indicated as set
forth in Section 73684:
    (a) Three chief deputy clerks at salary range 63.
    (b) Seven court clerks at salary range 59.
   (c) One deputy clerk II at salary range 59.
   (d) One calendar clerk at salary range 59.
   (e) One principal account clerk at salary range 55.
   (f) One senior account clerk at salary range 50.
   (g) Six deputy clerks I at salary range 47.
   (h) Two intermediate stenographer-clerks at salary range
45.
   (i) Twenty-two intermediate typist-clerks at salary range
41.
   (j) Two junior stenographer-clerks at salary range 38.
   (k) Twenty-two junior typist-clerks at salary range 35.
   (I) The clerk may appoint any combination of stenogra-
pher-clerks (h) and (j) not to exceed a total of two and may
appoint any combination of typist-clerks (i) and (k) not to
exceed a total of 22.
   SEC. 56. Section 73694 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73694. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4 (com-
mencing with Section 72150) of Chapter 8 of this title and
the provisions of this article, and in order to equalize the
compensation of employees of the municipal court with the
compensation paid to county employees with commensurate
duties and responsibilities, upon the recommendation of the
judges as to the clerk and the clerk as to all other officers
and attaches of the court, and with the approval of the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Fresno, the officers and at-
taches of the court may be paid any compensation which is
within the ranges and increments set forth in Section 73684,
but not exceeding 25 percent of the amounts provided for the
position by Sections 73682 and 73683. Such increase may be
made operative at the same time as the higher compensation
becomes operative for the similar position within the County
of Fresno. This section shall remain in effect until the 60th
day after the final adjournment of the 1970 Regular Session
of the California Legislature.
2578              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQh ^3Q2

    SEC. 56.1. Section 73772 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    73772. There shall be one clerk, who shall be secretary of
the court and who shall receive an annual salary of seventeen
thousand five hundred twenty dollars ($17,520) payable in
equal monthly installments.
    SEC. 57. Section 73773 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    73773. The clerk, with the approval of the judges of said
court, may appoint:
    (a) One chief deputy clerk who shall receive an annual sal-
ary of thirteen thousand seven hundred forty dollars ($13,740)
payable in equal monthly installments of one thousand one
hundred forty-five dollars ($1,145) per month.
    (b) Nine deputy clerks grade V, each of whom shall receive
a minimum salary of seven hundred seventeen dollars ($717)
monthly with increments of thirty-six dollars ($36) and thirty-
seven dollars ($37) to a maximum of seven hundred ninety
dollars ($790) monthly.
     (c) Four deputy clerks grade IV, each of whom shall re-
ceive a minimum salary of six hundred thirty-three dollars
 ($633) monthly with increments of thirty-three dollars ($33),
 and thirty-four dollars ($34) to a maximum of seven hundred
dollars ($700) monthly.
     (d) Twelve deputy clerks grade I I I , each of whom shall
receive a minimum salary of five hundred seventy-six dollars
 ($576) monthly with increments of twenty-eight dollars ($28),
and twenty-nine dollars ($29) to a maximum of six hundred
 thirty-three dollars ($633) monthly.
     (e) Bight deputy clerks grade II, each of whom shall re-
ceive a minimum salary of five hundred twenty-three dollars
  ($523) monthly with increments of twenty-six dollars ($26),
 and twenty-seven dollars ($27) to a maximum of five hundred
seventy-six dollars ($576) monthly.
     (f) Six deputy clerks grade I, each of whom shall receive
a minimum salary of four hundred ninety-eight dollars ($498)
monthly with increments of twenty-five dollars ($25), and
 twenty-six dollars ($26) to a maximum of five hundred forty-
 nine dollars ($549) monthly.
     (g) Three intermediate typist-clerks, each of whom shall
 receive a minimum salary of four hundred sixty-three dollars
  ($463) monthly with increments of twenty-three dollars ($23),
 and twenty-four dollars ($24) to a maximum of five hundred
 ten dollars ($510) monthly.
    In the application of the provisions of this section to exist-
 ing officers and attaches of the court on the effective date
 hereof, the allocations of ranges and increments shall be made
 in the manner provided in Section 73778.
    SEC. 57.05. Section 73781 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                2579

   73781. (a) Full-time official reporters appointed by the
majority of the judges of the municipal court pursuant to
the provisions of Section 72194 and so designated, shall be
attaches of the court and shall receive the following monthly
salaries: for the first year of service commencing upon the
effective date of the amendments made to this section during
the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature, one thousand one
hundred ninety-five dollars ($1,195) ; for the first year there-
after, one thousand two hundred fifty-five dollars ($1,255);
for the next year thereafter, one thousand three hundred
eighteen dollars ($1,318); for the next year, one thousand
three hundred eighty-five dollars ($1,385) ; and thereafter,
one thousand four hundred fifty-four dollars ($1,454).
    New appointees shall be compensated at the first step and
advance to each higher step upon completion of each year of
service. However, if the board of supervisors approves, new
reporters may be employed at the second or third step.
    (b) In addition to the compensation provided in this arti-
cle, each full-time reporter of the municipal court shall be
entitled to, and shall receive, the same vacations, sick leave,
and similar privileges and benefits as are now, or may here-
after be provided for the employees of the County of Marin,
including the right to participate in any group, accident,
health or life insurance plan adopted by the board of super-
visors of the county.
    (c) The judges of the court may appoint as many part-
time additional reporters as the business of the court requires.
 The additional reporters shall be known as official reporters
 pro tempore, and they shall serve without salary but shall
receive, for reporting, fees at a per diem rate as fixed by
 Sections 69948 and 69949 or as fixed by any special act gov-
 erning the compensation of official superior court reporters in
 the County of Marin, whichever is the greater. In criminal
 cases such fees upon order of the court shall be a charge
 against the general fund of the county.
    SEC. 57.1. Section 73822 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 57.2. Section 73822 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
    73822. (a) Each clerk and marshal and each of their re-
 spective assistants, deputies and other employees shall receive
 a salary computed upon a monthly rate in accordance with
 the range and step for his position specified in this article,
  as determined by the following schedule:

EangeNo.            1       2            3         4         5
  22              $325          $341   $358      $376      $395
  22.5             333           350    367       385       405
  23               341           358    376       395       415'
  23.5             350           367    385       405       425
  24               358           376    395       415       436
2580              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Ch. 1302

Range No.           1         2         3          4          5
  24.5             367       385       405        425        447
  25               376       395       415        436        458
  25.5             385       405       425        447        469
  26               395       415       436        458        481
  26.5             405       425       447        469        493
  27               415       436       458        481        505
  27.5             425       447       469        493        518
  28               436       458       481        505        530
  28.5             447       469       493        518        543
  29               458       481       505        530        556
  29.5             469       493       518        543        570
  30               481       505       530        556        584
  30.5             493       518       543        570        599
  31               505       530       556        584        613
  31.5             518       543       570        599        628
  32               530       556       584        613        644
  32.5             543       570       599        628        660
  33               556       584       613        644        676
  33.5             570       599       628        660        693
  34               584       613       644        676        710
  34.5             599       628       660        693        728
  35               613       644       676        710        745
  35.5             628       660       693        728        764
  36               644       676       710        745        782
  36.5             660       693       728        764        802
  37               676       710       745        782        821
  37.5             693       728       764        802        842
  38               710       745       782        821        862
  38.5             728       764       802        842        884
  39               745       782       821        862        905
  39.5             764       802       842        884        928
  40               782       821       862        905        950
  40.5             802       842       884        928        974
  41               821       862       905        950        998
  41.5             842       884       928        974      1,023

    (b) Except as otherwise provided in this article, each new
officer or employee shall for the first six full calendar months
of continuous service receive a salary at the monthly rate
specified for step 1 of the applicable range; on the first day
of the next calendar month thereafter, his salary may increase
to the rate of step 2; after one, two and three additional years
of continuous service, his salary may increase to the rates for
steps 3, 4 and 5 respectively. Such increases shall be granted
only with the approval of the officer's or employee's appoint-
ing authority.
   (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, until 60
days after the adjournment of the next regular session of the
Legislature, the salary of any officer or employee may, upon
approval by the board of supervisors, be increased or decreased
                     1969
Ch. 1302]                   R E G t r LAR SESSION           2581

 in order to provide compensation that is comparable to that
 of county employees of similar qualifications and experience,
 holding equal or comparable positions in the Stanislaus County
 classified service, as the comparability is determined by the
 board. When the salaries of incumbent officers and employees
 are increased to provide compensation that is comparable to
 that of county employees holding comparable positions, such
 officers and employees may, with the approval of their appoint-
 ing authority, retain the same salary step in the salary range
made applicable to their position as they occupied under the
 superseded salary range. For the purpose of determining eligi-
bility for subsequent annual increments, however, the officer's
 and employee's anniversary date for step advancement shall
not change.
    (d) When any officer or employee in the service of the
court is appointed or promoted to another office or position
in such service which is compensated at a higher salary range
he shall receive step 1 of such salary range if step 1 is at
least 5 percent higher than the salary received in the office
or position relinquished; but if not, he shall receive initially
that step of the salary range pertaining to such office or posi-
tion which will provide not less than a 5-percent increase in
his compensation. For the purpose of determining eligibility
for subsequent annual increments, the officer's or employee's
anniversary date for step advancement will be changed to the
first day of the next calendar month following the date of
promotion unless the promotion is effective on the first regular
working day of the month.
    (e) When any officer or employee in the service of the court
is demoted to another office or position he shall receive compen-
sation at the highest step of the salary range applicable to the
position to whieh he is demoted which provides a salary not
higher than that previously received by such person, except
that if such demotion is due to disciplinary action, the ap-
pointing authority may specify any step rate of such salary
range which provides compensation not higher than that last
previously received by such person. For the purpose of deter-
mining eligibility for subsequent annual increments, the offi-
cer's or employee's anniversary date for step advancement
will be changed to the first day of the next calendar month
following the date of demotion unless the demotion is effec-
tive on the first regular working day of the month.
   SEC. 57.3. Section 73823 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 57.4. Section 73823 in added to the Government Code,
to read:
   73823. There shall be one clerk appointed by a majority of
the judges of the court. The clerk shall be on range 39 and he
may appoint, with the approval of a majority of the judges of
the court:
2582             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r ^ h . 1302

   (a) One assistant clerk on range 35.
   (b) Three municipal court clerks on range 32.5.
   (c) One legal clerk on range 30.
   (d) Two account clerks I I I on range 29.
   (e) One clerk I I I on range 28.
   (f) Seven clerks I I on range 25.
   SEC. 57.5. Section 73824 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 57.6. Section 73824 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   73824. There shall be one marshal who shall be on range 35
and the marshal may appoint:
   (a) Two deputy marshals on range 33.
   (b) One clerk I I on range 25.
   (c) Two deputy marshals who shall be custodians at the fee
allowed by law for keeping property.
   SEC. 57.7. Section 73825 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 57.8. Section 73911 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73911. There shall be two judges.
   SEC. 57.9. Section 73912 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73912. There shall be one clerk of the municipal court, one
assistant clerk of the municipal court, two municipal court
clerks, two senior typist-clerks, one intermediate account-
clerk, and two typist-clerks, each of whom shall receive a sal-
ary in accordance with Section 73914 and Section 73915.
   SEC. 57.10. Section 73914 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73914. (a) The monthly salaries for the following classes
of position shall be, and shall be increased in accordance with
the schedule set forth below:

                         Eange    A     B     C     D         E
Clerk of the municipal
  court                    69    $839   $881 $925   $971 $1,019
Assistant clerk of the
  municipal court          56     610   641   673    707     742
Municipal court clerk      50     527   553   581    610     641
Intermediate
  account clerk            40    412    433   455 478 502
Intermediate clerk         38    392    412   433 455 478
Typist-clerk               34    355    373   392 412 433
Marshal                    72    902    947   994 1,044 1,096
Chief deputy marshal       64    742    779   818 859 902
Deputy marshal             56    610    641   673 707 742
Senior typist-clerk        44    455    478   502 527 553
All figures in columns A, B, C, D, and E represent dollars per
calendar month.
                      1969 REG
 Ch. 1302]                       ULAR SESSION                 2583

      Chief deputy marshals and deputy marshals shall receive
  such initial and annual uniform allowances as may be pro-
  vided by resolution or ordinances to those employees of the
  sheriff's department of Santa Barbara County who are classi-
  fied as deputy sheriffs.
      (b) The administration of the salary plan provided by this
  article including the hiring rate, increases within range, salary
  on promotion, and salary on position reclassification shall be in
  accordance with the current personnel rules and salary ordi-
  nance of the County of Santa Barbara, and any employee who
 on the effective date of the amendments to this section enacted
 at the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature is receiv-
 ing a rate of compensation in excess of column " E " of the
  range prescribed for his class shall continue to receive such
 compensation until his position is first vacated, or until such
 time as the compensation or range is otherwise changed as
 prescribed by law.
     (c) On and after the effective date of the amendments to
 this section enacted at the 1969 Eegular Session of the
 Legislature, the following regulations will govern the admin-
 istration of the classification and compensation shedule con-
 tained herein:
     (1) Except as, otherwise provided in this article, all em-
ployees shall be entitled to the same vacation, sick leave, leave
 of absence, and similar benefits, and shall be subject to the same
rules and regulations concerning length of workweek, anni-
versary dates and changes thereof, as is now or may be pro-
vided by ordinances and policies approved by the Board of
 Supervisors of Santa Barbara County for other employees of
the county.
    Nothing in this act shall be construed to place the marshal's
or clerk's office, their employees and other municipal court at-
taches under the merit system of Santa Barbara County, but
such employees and attaches may be placed under that merit
system by court rule adopted by the judges of this municipal
court.
     (2) For purposes of this article, an employee, unless other-
wise designated, refers to every person filling any position
established by Sections 73912 and 73913.
    SEC. 57.11. Section 73915 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    73915. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article,
if, at any date on or after April 1, 1969, any different com-
pensation is established for any of the hereinafter mentioned
positions under the County of Santa Barbara salary ordinance,
the following provisions shall apply to salaries mentioned in
this article:
    (a) Whenever a different compensation is established for
the class of position now and hereafter designated in the Santa
Barbara County salary ordinance as superior court clerk, the
percentage of such increase or decrease shall be ascertained
2584               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qh. 1302

and the salary range for the classification of clerk of the mu-
nicipal court, assistant clerk of the municipal court, and mu-
nicipal court clerk under this article shall be changed by
increasing or decreasing each salary column within the appro-
priate range by such percentage, rounded off to the nearest
dollar.
   (b) Whenever a different compensation is established for the
class of position now and hereafter designated in the Santa
Barbara County salary ordinance as senior typist-clerk, inter-
mediate account clerk, intermediate clerk, and typist-clerk, the
percentage of such increase or decrease shall be ascertained
and the salary range for the classification of senior typist-clerk,
intermediate account clerk, intermediate clerk, and typist-
clerk, under this article shall be changed by increasing or de-
creasing each salary column within the appropriate range by
such percentage, rounded off to the nearest dollar.
   (c) "Whenever a different compensation is established for
the class of position now and hereafter designated in the Santa
Barbara County salary ordinance as deputy sheriff, the per-
centage of such increase or decrease shall be ascertained and
the salary range for the classification of marshal, chief deputy
marshal, and deputy marshal under this article shall be
changed by increasing or decreasing each salary column within
the appropriate range by such percentage, rounded off to the
nearest dollar.
   "Whenever a salary increase is authorized by this article, such
increase shall be payable at the same time the corresponding
increase under the Santa Barbara County salary ordinance is
payable.
   This section shall remain in effect until the 61st day after
the final adjournment of the 1971 Kegular Session of the Legis-
lature.
   SEC. 58. Section 73952 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73952. There shall be one clerk, who shall be appointed by
the majority of judges of the court and who shall receive a
monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 44 of Sec-
tion 74343.1. In no event shall the salary of the clerk be less
than thirteen (13) schedule ranges higher than that specified
for the position of chief deputy.
   SEC. 59. Section 73953 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73953. The clerk may appoint:
   (a) One chief deputy who shall receive a monthly salary at
a rate specified in Schedule No. 37.5.
   (b) Five deputy clerks IV, each of whom shall receive the
monthly salary specified in Schedule No. 34.
   (c) Thirteen deputy clerks III, each of whom shall receive
the monthly salary specified in Schedule No. 29.
   (d) Ten deputy clerks I I , each of whom shall receive the
monthly salary specified in Schedule No. 26.
                     1969
Ch. 13021                   REGULAR SESSION                  2585

    (e) Bight deputy clerks I, each of whom shall receive the
monthly salary specified in Schedule No. 22. Appointments
to such positions shall be at step B of the schedule.
   (f) Two keypunch operators, each of whom shall receive
the monthly salary specified in Schedule No. 24.5.
   (g) One court interpreter who shall receive a monthly
salary at a rate specified in Schedule No. 28.
   (h) One deputy clerk who shall be a stenographer and who
shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule
No. 28.5.
   The value, in dollars, of each monthly salary herein shall
be at the rates indicated opposite the respective schedule num-
ber in the salary schedule provided in Section 74343.1. The
provisions of subdivisions (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of
that section apply to the attaches appointed pursuant to this
section. In no event shall the salary of the clerk or any deputy
clerk who occupied his position on the day prior to the effec-
tive date of this section be less than his salary on such day.
   SEC. 60. Section 73958 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73958. (a) All persons holding positions on the 91st day
after any regular session of the Legislature shall continue in
their respective positions without further examination or quali-
fication and at the added compensation provided in this article,
including increments for continuous prior service in such posi-
tions in the court. Any person whose title is changed as a result
of this act shall receive credit for continued service to which
he would be entitled under his previous position and shall
receive compensation at the step covering such length of serv-
ice. Thereafter, any increments earned by additional service in
grade shall take effect upon the first day of the month follow-
ing completion of such required service.
   (b) In addition to the compensation provided in this ar-
ticle, the attaches of the municipal court shall receive, and
they shall be entitled to the same vacations, sick leave, leaves
of absence and similar privileges and benefits as are now or
may hereafter be provided for the employees of the County of
San Diego, including the right to participate in a retirement
plan, in any group health, accident or life insurance plan,
and in the tuition refund and suggestion awards programs
adopted by the Board of Supervisors of San Diego County.
Such privileges and benefits shall be retroactively applied. The
municipal court judges may adopt rules for the conduct of and
personnel privileges to be afforded the attaches of the court.
    (c) All attaches may be appointed, promoted, removed, sus-
pended or discharged for cause by the appointing authority
subject in such appointment, promotion, removal, suspension
or discharge to civil service provisions applicable to the classi-
fied personnel of San Diego County. Whenever a person or
attache is appointed or promoted to a position, such person or
attache must serve a probationary period of at least six months.
2586               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Cn. 1302

   (d) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 71183, a per-
son appointed by the clerk from an eligible list certified by the
Civil Service Commission of the County of San Diego to fill a
temporary position established pursuant to Section 72150 and
employed in such temporary position immediately prior to the
91st day after the final adjournment of a regular session of
the Legislature, may be appointed by such clerk to a like
permanent position in such clerk's office without further ex-
amination, qualification or certification on a civil service eligi-
ble list; provided, that the number of such positions in the
clerk's office has been increased by the last regular session of
the Legislature so as to make such temporary position a
permanent position.
   SEC. 61. Section 73959 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73959. Official reporters in such municipal courts, ap-
pointed pursuant to Section 72194, shall be attaches of the
court to perform the duties set forth in Section 274c of the
Code of Civil Procedure, and in lieu of any other compensation
provided by law for their services in reporting testimony in
felony criminal proceedings in the court, shall receive a
monthly salary of seven hundred dollars ($700). The salary
shall be a charge against the general fund of the county. For
transcribing and for reporting proceedings other than felony
criminal proceedings, the official reporter shall receive the fees
provided by Sections 69947 to 69953, inclusive, which shall
upon order of the court be a charge against the general fund
of the county. Pursuant to Section 72194, the judges of the
court may appoint as many additional reporters as the business
of the court requires. The additional reporters shall be known
as official reporters pro tempore and they shall serve without
salary but shall receive the fees provided by Sections 69947
to 69953, inclusive, which shall upon order of the court be a
charge against the general fund of the county. An official
reporter or an official reporter pro tempore may be appointed
to serve as such reporter in more than one municipal court in
the County of San Diego.
   SEC. 62. Section 74002 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74002. There shall be one clerk and administrative officer
for each court who shall receive a biweekly salary as provided
by the following range numbers of Section 74005:
  For the North Orange County, Central Orange
    County, and "West Orange County Municipal Courts 59
  For the Orange County Harbor Municipal Court       57
  For the South Orange County Municipal Court        55
  SEC. 63. Section 74003 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74003. There shall be one marshal for each court who shall
receive a biweekly salary as provided by the following:
                       1969
C h . 13021                   REGULAR SESSION                                         2587

  For the North Orange County Municipal Court— $636.80
  For the Central Orange County Municipal Court $636.80
  For the West Orange County Municipal Court    $636.80
  For the Orange County Harbor Municipal Court $570.40
  For the South Orange County Municipal Court— $540.00
   SEC. 64. Section 74004 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74004. (a) The number of positions within each job classi-
fication which may be filled by appointment by the clerk and
administrative officer and the marshal, respectively, of each
such court, and the number of the salary range set forth in
Section 74005 which constitutes the compensation for each job
classification, are shown in the table below, in which the var-
ious municipal courts are designated by column headings from
left to right in the same order as that in which their judicial
districts are named in Section 74000:
       Title of job      Applicable salary          Number of positions
      classification      range number            authorized in each court
Appointed by the clerk                       NOO COG WOO OCH SOO
    and administrative
    officer:
  Chief deputy clerk II,
    municipal court       51                  1     1       1        0                 0
  Chief deputy clerk I,
    municipal court       49                  0         0       0                 1     1
 Division head II,
    municipal court       45                  3         3       3            0         0
 Division head I,
    municipal court       43                  1     1       1        3                 0
 Municipal court clerk___ 41                  7         7        6           3         2
  Deputy clerk V,
    municipal court       37                  2         2                1        1     2
 Deputy clerk IV,
    municipal court       33                       1        1        1        1        0
 Deputy clerk III,
    municipal court       31                  6         6       4            2         0
  Deputy clerk II,
    municipal court       27                  3         4       3            2          2
  Deputy clerk I,
    municipal court       25                 32     29          25           11         5
  Legal stenographer I    31                  1      1           1            2         0
  Secretary I I           35                  1      1           1            0         0
  Systems and procedures
    analyst I I           54                  0         1   0                 0         0
Appointed by the marshal:
  Lieutenant,
    marshal's office      54                  1     1       1        0                  0
  Sergeant,
    marshal's office      50                  4      2           2           2          1
  Deputy marshal I I      42                 12     11           9           7          3
  Deputy marshal I        40                  9      9           8           4          2
2588                    STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Qh_ 13Q2

        Title of job       Applicable salary     Number of positions
       classification       range number       authorized in each court
                                            NOC COO WOO OCH SOC
  Deputy marshal matron. 34                 0     0       1   0         0
  Chief clerk I I ,
    marshal's office             39         1    1    1       0         0
  Chief clerk I,
    marshal's office             37         0     0       0        1    1
  Clerk I I I , marshal's office 31         2     1       1        1    0
  Clerk II, marshal's office 27             4     4       3        2    1
  Clerk I, marshal's office-25              5     4       3        1    0

   (b) The duties to be performed by persons employed in the
respective job classifications listed above shall include the
duties set forth in the class specifications for the respective
classes established in accordance with the resolution of the
County of Orange relating to the administration of the classi-
fication plan for county employees generally, plus such addi-
tional duties as may be assigned by the appointing authorities.
   (c) All appointments to positions by the clerk and admin-
istrative officer and marshal, respectively, shall meet the mini-
mum qualifications and tests of fitness for the job classifica-
tions, which shall be established in accordance with the
resolution of the County of Orange relating to the administra-
tion of the classification plan for county employees generally.
   (d) If an increase in the business of the court or any other
emergency requires a greater number of attaches or employees
for the prompt and faithful discharge of the business of the
court than the number expressly provided in this article or
requires the performance of duties of positions in a class not
expressly provided in this article, with the approval of a
majority of the judges of the court and the board of super-
visors, the clerk or the marshal may appoint as many addi-
tional attaches or employees as are needed. The additional
attaches or employees shall be selected and appointed in the
same manner as those for whom express provision is made, and
they shall receive salary and compensation as prescribed in this
article or as prescribed in the County of Orange salary plan
for classes not expressly provided for in this article. Addi-
tional attaches and employees may continue in such positions
not longer than 90 days after the adjournment of the next
regular session of the Legislature. The provisions of this sec-
tion are directory only and are not mandatory and are not
intended to affect the application of Section 72150 of this code.
   SEC. 64.1. Section 74132 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74132. (a) Each clerk and marshal and each of their re-
spective assistants, deputies and other employees shall receive
a salary computed upon a biweekly rate in accordance with the
range, or half-range, and step for his position specified in or
pursuant to this article, as determined by the following salary
schedule:
Oh. 1302]               1969 REGULAR SESSION                  2589
Eange
  No.          Step 1     Step 2     Step 3     Step 4     Step 5
  32          147.20      155.20     164.00     172.80     182.40
  32.5        151.20      159.20     168.00     177.60     187.20
  33          155.20      164.00     172.80     182.40     192.00
  33.5        159.20      168.00     177.60     187.20     196.80
 34           164.00      172.80     182.40     192.00     202.40
 34.5         168.00      177.60     187.20     196.80     208.00
 35           172.80      182.40     192.00     202.40     213.60
 35.5         177.60      187.20     196.80     208.00     219.20
 36           182.40      192.00     202.40     213.60     225.60
 36.5         187.20     196.80     208.00      219.20    231.20
 37           192.00     202.40     213.60      225.60     237.60
 37.5         196.80     208.00     219.20     231.20     244.00
 38          202.40      213.60     225.60     237.60     251.20
 38.5        208.00      219.20     231.20     244.00     257.60
 39           213.60     225.60     237.60     251.20     264.80
 39.5         219.20     231.20     244.00     257.60     272.00
 40          225.60      237.60     251.20     264.80     280.00
 40.5        231.20      244.00     257.60     272.00     287.20
 41          237.60      251.20     264.80     280.00     295.20
 41.5        244.00      257.60     272.00     287.20     303.20
 42          251.20      264.80     280.00     295.20     312.00
 42.5        257.60      272.00     287.20     303.20     320.80
 43          264.80      280.00     295.20     312.00     329.60
 43.5        272.00      287.20     303.20     320.80     338.40
 44         • 280.00     295.20     312.00     329.60     348.00
 44.5        287.20      303.20     320.80     338.40     357.60
 45          295.20      312.00     329.60     348.00     367.20
 45.5        303.20     320.80      338.40     357.60     377.60
 46          312.00     329.60     348.00      367.20    388.00
 46.5        320.80     338.40     357.60     377.60     398.40
 47          329.60     348.00     367.20     388.00     409.60
 47.5        338.40     357.60     377.60     398.40     420.80
 48          348.00     367.20     388.00     409.60     432.80
 48.5        357.60     377.60     398.40     420.80     444.80
 49          367.20     388.00     409.60     432.80     456.80
 49.5        377.60     398.40     420.80     444.80     469.60
 50         388.00      409.60     432.80     456.80     482.40
 50.5       398.40      420.80     444.80     469.60     496.00
 51         409.60      432.80     456.80     482.40     509.60
 51.5       420.80      444.80     469.60     496.00     524.00
 52         432.80      456.80     482.40     509.60     538.40
 52.5       444.80      469.60     496.00     524.00     553.60
 53         456.80      482.40     509.60     538.40     568.80
53.5        469.60      496.00     524.00     553.60     584.80
54          482.40      509.60     538.40     568.80     600.80
54.5        496.00      524.00     553.60     584.80     617.60
55          509.60      538.40     568.80     600.80     635.20
55.5        524.00      553.60     584.80     617.60     652.80
56          538.40      568.80     600.80     635.20     671.20
2590                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                |-Q]j J3Q2

     (b) Except as otherwise provided in this article, each new
 officer or employee shall for the first 13 full biweekly periods of
 continuous service receive a salary at the rate specified for
 step 1 of the applicable range; on the first day of the next
 biweekly period thereafter, his salary shall increase to the rate
 for step 2 ; after 26, 52 and 78 additional biweekly periods of
 continuous service, his salary shall increase to the rates for
 steps 3, 4 and 5, respectively.
     (e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, until 60
 days after the adjournment of the next regular session of
the Legislature, the salary of any officer or employee may,
upon approval by the board of supervisors, be increased or
 decreased within the limits of the applicable range and two
ranges above or below said limits, in order to provide
compensation that is comparable to that of county employees
of similar qualifications and experience, holding equal or com-
parable positions in the Riverside County classified service, as
the comparability is determined by the board. Subject to the
foregoing limitations as to time, the board of supervisors may
 allow such additional appointive positions in the classes of
positions specified in this article as in said board's judgment
are necessary to perform the work of the offices of each clerk
and marshal.
     (d) Such officers and employees shall be entitled to the same
vacation, sick leave, leave of absence, and similar benefits, and
may be appointed, promoted, demoted, terminated or trans-
ferred, or their status otherwise adjusted, in the same manner
and with the same effect as is or may be provided by the cur-
rent salary ordinances of Riverside County for other employees
of the county, and they shall be subject to such employment
qualifications as may be fixed by or pursuant to said ordinance
for their positions, in the same manner as for other positions in
the employment of said county.
   SEC. 64.2. Section 74134 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74134. I n the Riverside Judicial District, the salary of the
clerk shall be on range 53 and the clerk may appoint:
    (a) 1 assistant clerk on range 48.
    (b) 3 municipal court clerks I I on range 46.
    (c) 1 accounting technician I I on range 44.5.
    (d) 5 municipal court clerks I on range 44.
    (e) 3 senior clerks on range 40.
    (f) 1 account clerk II on range 38.
    (g) 1 stenographer clerk I I on range 38.
    (h) 12 clerks II on range 37.
   SEC. 64.3. Section 74135 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74135. In the Riverside Judicial District, the salary of the
marshal shall be on range 53 and the marshal may appoint:
    (a) 1 assistant marshal on range 48.
   (b) 4 deputy marshals I I on range 47.
Ch. 1302]           1969 R E G U L A R   SESSION         2591

   (c) 3 deputy marshals I on range 44.5.
   (d) 1 marshal's clerk on range 40.
   (e) 2 clerks I I on range 37.
   SEC. 64.4. Section 74136 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74136. In the Desert Judicial District, the salary of the
clerk shall be on range 53 and the clerk may appoint:
   (a) 1 assistant clerk on range 48.
   (b) 6 municipal court clerks I on range 44.
   (c) 1 senior account clerk on range 41.
   (d) 2 senior clerks on range 40.
   (e) 1 account clerk I I on range 38.
   (f) 9 clerks I I on range 37.
   SEC. 64.5. Section 74137 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74137. In the Desert Judicial District, the salary of the
marshal shall be on range 53 and the marshal may appoint:
   (a) 1 assistant marshal on range 48.
   (b) 4 deputy marshals I I on range 47.
   (c) 2 deputy marshals I on range 44.5.
   (d) 1 marshal's clerk on range 40.
   (e) 3 clerks I I on range 37.
  SEC. 64.6. Section 74138 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  74138. In the Corona Judicial District the salary of the
clerk shall be on range 51 and the clerk may appoint:
   (a) 2 municipal court clerks I on range 44.
   (b) 2 senior clerks on range 40.
   (c) 1 account clerk II on range 38.
   (d) 2 clerks I I on range 37.
  SEC. 64.7. Section 74139 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74139. In the Corona Judicial District, the salary of the
marshal shall be on range 52 and the marshal may appoint:
   (a) 2 deputy marshals I I on range 47.
   (b) 1 deputy marshal I on range 44.5.
   (c) 1 marshal's clerk on range 40.
   (d) 1 clerk I I on range 37.
   SEC. 65. Section 74192 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74192. There shall be one clerk and administrator who shall
be appointed by the judges of the court and who shall be sec-
retary of the court. The clerk and administrator shall receive
a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 75 step C of
Section 74196. The position of clerk and administrator shall
not be deemed to be a civil service position.
   SEC. 66. Section 74193 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
  74193. The clerk and administrator shall appoint:
   (a) One assistant clerk who shall receive a monthly salary
at a rate specified in Schedule 58 of Section 74196.
   82—1954
2592               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfa 13Q2

    (b) One chief deputy clerk, who shall receive a monthly sal-
ary at a rate specified in Schedule 58 of Section 74196.
    (c) Two deputy clerks, who shall be chief clerks, each of
whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in
 Schedule 51 of Section 74196.
    (d) One deputy clerk, who shall be a legal stenographer,
who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Sched-
ule 38 of Section 74196.
    (e) Eleven deputy clerks, who shall be court clerks, each
of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in
 Schedule 49 of Section 74196.
    (f) Three deputy clerks, who shall be deputy clerks III,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate speci-
fied in Schedule 41 of Section 74196.
    (g) Nine deputy clerks, who shall be deputy clerks II, each
of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in
Schedule 35 of Section 74196.
    (h) Nine deputy clerks, who shall be typist-clerks I I , each
of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in
 Schedule 28 of Section 74196.
    (i) Seven deputy clerks, who shall be senior deputy clerks,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 36 of Section 74196.
    (j) Six deputy clerks, who shall be cashier-clerks, each of
whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in
 Schedule 31 of Section 74196.
   (k) One deputy clerk, who shall be an accountant, who shall
receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 52 of
Section 74196.
   (I) One deputy clerk, who shall be an account clerk II, who
shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule
36 of Section 74196.
   (m) One deputy clerk, who shall be an account clerk I, who
shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule
29 of Section 74196.
   (n) One deputy clerk, who shall be a data processing tech-
nician I I I , who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate speci-
fied in Schedule 46 of Section 74196.
   (o) One deputy clerk who shall be a data processing tech-
nician I, who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 34 of Section 74196.
   (p) One deputy clerk, who shall be a keypunch supervisor,
who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Sched-
ule 36 of Section 74196.
   (q) Five deputy clerks, who shall be keypunch operators,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 30 of Section 74196.
   SEC. 67. Section 74194 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74194. There shall be one marshal, Sacramento County,
who shall be appointed by the judges of the court, and who
                    1969
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2593

shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule
71 step C of Section 74196. The position of marshal shall not
be deemed to be a civil service position.
   SEC. 68. Section 74195 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74195. The marshal shall appoint:
   (a) One assistant marshal who shall receive a monthly sal-
ary at a rate specified in Schedule 61 of Section 74196.
   (b) Nine deputy marshals who shall be marshal's sergeants,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 53 of Section 74196.
   (c) Fifteen deputy marshals, who shall be bailiffs, each of
whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in
Schedule 49 of Section 74196.
   (d) One deputy marshal, who shall be a chief clerk, who
shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule
51 of Section 74196.
   (e) Two deputy marshals, who shall be senior deputy clerks,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 36 of Section 74196.
   (f) One deputy marshal, who shall be an account clerk II,
who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Sched-
ule 36 of Section 74196.
   (g) Four deputy marshals, who shall be typist-clerks II,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 28 of Section 74196.
   (h) Two deputy marshals, who shall be account clerks I,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 29 of Section 74196.
   (i) One deputy marshal, who shall be a senior marshal's
sergeant, who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 57 of Section 74196.
   (j) Three deputy marshals, who shall be deputy clerks II,
each of whom shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified
in Schedule 35 of Section 74196.
   (k) One deputy marshal, who shall be a deputy clerk I I I ,
who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Sched-
ule 41 of Section 74196.
   All deputy marshals listed in subdivisions (e) through (h)
above,, inclusive, are authorized a 5-percent salary differential
in addition to the rates indicated for serving as matrons.
   SEC. 69. Section 74196 of the Government Code is amended
to read .-
   74196. Whenever reference to a numbered salary schedule
is made in any section of this article the following schedule of
monthly salaries shall apply:
Schedule        Step        Step     Step       Step       Step
number           A           B         C         D           F
  25            $385        $405     $425       $447       $469
  26             395         415      436        458        481
  27             405         425      447        469        493
2594             STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [Ch. 1302

Schedule       Step     Step    Step      Step       Step
number          A        B       C         D           E
 28             415      436     458       481        505
 29             425      447     469       493        517
 30             436      458     481       505        530
 31             447      469     493       517        543
 32             458      481     505       530        556
 33             469      493     517       543        570
 34             481      505     530       556        584
 35             493      517     543       570        598
 36             505      530     556       584        613
 37             517      543     570       598        628
 38             530      556     584       613        644
 39             543      570     598       628        660
 40             556      584     613       644        676
 41             570      598     628       660        693
 42             584      613     644       676        710
 43             598      628     660       693        727
 44             613      644     676       710        745
 45             628      660     693       727        763
 46             644      676     710       745        782
 47             660      693     727       763        801
 48             676      710     745       782        821
 49             693      727     763       801        841
 50             710      745     782       821        862
 51             727      763     801       841        883
 52             745      782     821       862        905
 53             763      801     841       883        927
 54             782      821     862       905        950
 55             801      841     883       927        975
 56             821      862     905       950      1,000
 57             841      883     927       975      1,025
 58             862      905     950      1,000     1,050
 59             883      927     975      1,025     1,075
 60             905      950    1,000     1,050     1,102
 61             927      975    1,025     1,075     1,128
 62             950     1,000   1,050     1,102     1,155
 63_            975     1,025   1,075     1,128     1,184
 64            1,000    1,050   1,102     1,155     1,213
 65        .    1,025   1,075   1,128     1,184     4,243
 66            1,050    1,102   1,155     1,213     1,274
 67            1,075    1,128   1,184     1,243     1,306
 68            1,102    1,155   1,213     1,274     1,338
 69            1,128    1,184   1,243     1,306     1,371
 70            1,155    1,213   1,274     1,338     1,405
 71            1,184    1,243   1,306     1,371     1,440
 72            1,213    1,274   1,338     1,405     1,475
 73            1,243    1,306   1,371     1,440     1,512
 74            1,274    1,338   1,405     1,475     1,550
 75            1,306    1,371   1,440     1,512     1,588
 76            1,338    1,405   1,475     1,550     1,626
Ch. 1302]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2595

  jhedule       Step       Step      Step        Step       Step
  umber           A          B         C           D          B
   77           1,371      1,440     1,512      1,588      1,666
   78           1,405      1,475     1,550      1,626      1,707
   79           1,440      1,512     1,588      1,666      1,750
   80           1,475      1,550     1,626      1,707      1,792
   81           1,512      1,588     1,666      1,750      1,837
   82           1,550      1,626     1,707      1,792      1,882
   83           1,588      1,666     1,750      1,837      1,929
   84           1,626      1,707     1,792      1,882      1,977
   85           1,666      1,750     1,837      1,929      2,025
   86           1,707      1,792     1,882      1,977      2,075
   87           1,750      1,837     1,929      2,025      2,127
   88           1,792      1,882     1,977      2,075      2,180
   89           1,837      1,929     2,025      2,127      2,233
   90           1,882      1,977     2,075      2,180      2,289
   91           1,929      2,025     2,127      2,233      2,345
   92           1,977      2,075     2,180      2,289      2,403
   93           2,025      2,127     2,233      2,345      2,462
   94           2,075      2,180     2,289      2,403      2,523
   95           2,127      2,233     2,345      2,462      2,585
  96            2,180      2,289     2,403      2,523      2,649
   97           2,233      2,345     2,462      2,585      2,714
   98           2,289      2,403     2,523      2,649      2,781
  99            2,345      2,462     2,585      2,714      2,850
   (a) Unless otherwise specifically provided each person ap-
pointed to a position, the compensation of which is fixed by
reference to the salary schedule set forth in this article, shall,
for the first 12 months of service, receive monthly the rate of
compensation specified in the first step of the salary schedule
for the position to which he is appointed. Upon the first day
of the month following 12 months' continuous service in a
class, the initial rate of compensation of such person shall be
increased to the next higher step of the salary schedule for
the position occupied. On and after the first day of the month
following each ensuing 12 months of such service such compen-
sation shall be increased to the rate specified in the next
higher step of the salary schedule for the position occupied
until such compensation equals the sum specified in the highest
step of the schedule pertaining to such position.
   (b) When any person in the service of the court is appointed
or promoted to another office or position in such service com-
pensated at a higher numbered schedule, he shall receive step 1
of such schedule if step 1 is at least one step higher than the
salary received in the office or position relinquished; but if
not, he shall receive initially that step of the schedule per-
taining to such office or position which will provide a one-step
increase in his compensation.
   (c) When any person in the service of the court is demoted
to another office or position he shall receive compensation at
2596              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQJj 13Q2

the highest step of the salary schedule applicable to the posi-
tion to which he is demoted which provides a salary not higher
than that previously received by such person, except that if
such demotion is due to disciplinary action, the appointing
power may specify any step rate of such schedule which pro-
vides compensation not higher than that last previously re-
ceived by such person.
   SEC. 69.1. Section 74222 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74222. There shall be one clerk who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in range 38 of the salary sched-
ule provided in Section 74223.1.
   SEC. 69.2. Section 74223 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74223. The clerk may appoint:
   One deputy clerk grade I I I who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in range 31 of the salary sched-
ule provided in Section 74223.1.
   Five deputy clerks grade I I who shall receive a monthly
salary at the rate specified in range 29 of the salary sched-
ule provided in Section 74223.1.
   Ten deputy clerks grade I who shall receive a monthly salary
at the rate specified in range 24 of the salary schedule provided
in Section 74223.1.
   SEC. 70. Section 74342 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74342. There shall be one clerk who shall be appointed by
a majority of the judges of the court and who shall receive a
monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 51 of the salary
schedule provided in Section 74343.1. In no event shall the
compensation of the clerk be less than 22 schedule ranges
higher than that specified for the position of chief clerk.
   SEC. 71. Section 74343 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74343. The clerk may appoint:
   (a) One assistant clerk, with the consent of a majority of
the judges of the court, who shall be empowered to act in the
place and stead of the clerk in the event that the clerk is
absent or unavailable for any reason and who shall receive a
monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 45. I n no event
shall the compensation of the assistant clerk be less than ten
 (10) schedule ranges higher than that specified for the posi-
tion of chief clerk.
   (b) Five deputy clerks who shall be chief clerks in the
administrative, civil, criminal, traffic, and accounting divisions
of the court, and who shall receive a monthly salary at the
rate specified in Schedule 40.
   (e) Five deputy clerks who shall be assistant chief clerks of
division and who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate
specified in Schedule 37.
                     1969
Ch. 13021                   REGULAR SESSION                   2597

    (d) Thirty-eight deputy clerks IV, each of whom shall re-
ceive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 34.
    (e) Thirty-six deputy clerks I I I , each of whom shall receive
a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 29.
    (f) Thirty-four deputy clerks II, each of whom shall re-
ceive a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 26.
   (g) Fifty-two deputy clerks I, each of whom shall receive
a monthly salary at a rate specified in Schedule 22.
   Appointments to such positions shall be at step B of the
schedule. In no event shall the monthly salary of deputy
clerks I holding positions on the effective date of the 1969
amendment be less than step B of the salary schedule.
   (h) Twelve deputy clerks who shall be keypunch operators
and who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate specified in
Schedule 24.5.
   (i) The eight deputy clerks assigned by the clerk of the
court as clerks in the presiding department, calendar depart-
ment, criminal arraignment, traffic arraignment departments
(two deputies), special proceedings department, setting and
motion department, and South Bay Department, while serv-
ing in those capacities, shall receive a monthly salary at a rate
two schedules higher than that which such deputy clerks were
receiving prior to such assignment. The value, in dollars, of
each monthly salary herein shall be at the rates indicated op-
posite the respective schedule number in the salary schedule
provided in Section 74343.1.
   SEC. 72. Section 74343.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74343.1. Whenever reference to a numbered salary sched-
ule is made in any section of this article, the following schedule
of monthly salaries shall apply:
Eange and
 schedule
 number               A          B         C         D        E
   20               $343       $360      $378      $397      $417
   20.5              351        369       387       407       427
   21                360        378       397       417       438
   21.5              369        387       407       427       449
   22                378        397       417       438       460
   22.5              387        407       427       449       471
   23                397        417       438       460       483
   23.5              407        427       449       471       495
   24                417        438       460       483       507
   24.5              427        449       471       495       519
   25                438        460       483       507       532
   25.5              449        471       495       519       545
   26                460        483       507       532       559
   26.5              471        495       519       545       573
   27                483        507       532       559       587
   27.5              495        519       545       573       601
2598        STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1302

Range and
 schedule
  number             A      B           O        D      E
   28         507     532         559         587      616
   28.5       519     545         573         601      631
   29         532     559         587         616      647
   29.5       545     573         601         631      663
   30         559     587         616         647      679
   30.5       573     601         631         663      696
   31         587     616         647         679      713
   31.5       601     631         663         696      731
   32         616     647         679         713      749
   32.5       631     663         696         731      767
   33         647     679         713         749      786
   33.5       663     696         731         767      805
   34         679     713         749         786      825
   34.5       696     731         767         805      845
   35 ___     713     749         786         825      866
   35.5       731     767         805         845      887
   36         749     786         825         866      909
   36.5       767     805         845         887      931
   37         786     825         866         909      954
   37.5       805     845         887         931      978
   38         825     866         909         954    1,002
   38.5       845     887         931         978    1,027
   39         866     909         954       1,002    1,052
   39.5       887     931         978       1,027    1,078
   40         909     954       1,002       1,052    1,105
   40.5       931     978       1,027       1,078    1,132
   41         954   1,002       1,052       1,105    1,160
   41.5       978   1,027       1,078       1,132    1,189
   42       1,002   1,052       1,105       1,160    1,218
   42.5     1,027   1,078       1,132       1,189    1,248
   43       1,052   1,105       1,160       1,218    1,279
   43.5     1,078   1,132       1,189       1,248    1,311
   44       1,105   1,160       1,218       1,279    1,343
   44.5     1,132   1,189       1,248       1,311    1,376
   45       1,160   1,218       1,279       1,343    1,410
   45.5     1,189   1,248       1,311       1,376    1,445
   46       1,218   1,279       1,343       1,410    1,481
   46.5     1,248   1,311       1,376       1,445    1,518
   47       1,279   1.343       1,410       1,481    1,555
   47.5     1,311   1,376       1,445       1,518    1,594
   48       1,343   1,410       1,481       1,555    1,633
   48.5     1,376   1,445       1,518       1,594    1,674
   49       1,410   1,481       1,555       1,633    1,715
   49.5     1,445   1,518       1,594       1,674    1,758
   50       1,481   1,555       1,633       1,715    1,801
   50.5     1,518   1,594       1,674       1,758    1,846
   51       1,555   1,633       1,715       1,801    1,891
Oh. 1302]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2599

Range and
 schedule
  number               A         B         C         D         B
   51.5             1,594     1,674     1,758     1,846     1,938
   52               1,633     1,715     1,801     1,891     1,986
   52.5             1,674     1,758     1,846     1,938     2,035
   53               1,715     1,801     1,891     1,986     2,085
   53.5             1,758     1,846     1,938     2,035     2,137
   54               1,801     1,891     1,986     2,085     2,189
   54.5             1,846     1,938     2,035     2,137     2,243
   55               1,891     1,986     2,085     2,189     2,298
   (a) Unless otherwise specifically provided, each person ap-
pointed to a position, the compensation of which is fixed by
reference to the salary schedule set forth in this article, shall,
for the first six months of service, receive monthly the rate of
compensation specified in step A of the salary schedule for the
position to which he is appointed. Upon the first day of the
month following six months continuous service in step A, the
initial rate of compensation of such person shall be increased
to step B of the salary schedule for the position occupied.
Upon the first day of the month following six months continu-
ous service in step B, the initial rate of compensation of such
person shall be increased to step C of the salary schedule for
the position occupied. On and after the first day of the month
following six months of continuous service at step C, such com-
pensation shall be increased to step D of the salary schedule.
On and after the first day of the month following 12 months
of continuous service at step D, such compensation shall be
increased to step E of the salary schedule.
   (b) When any person in the service of the County of San
Diego or in the service of another municipal court in San
Diego County is appointed to a position in the service of the
court compensated at a higher salary range than the salary
range for the position relinquished or when any person in the
service of the court is appointed or promoted to another posi-
tion in such service compensated at a higher numbered sched-
ule, he shall receive step A of such schedule if step A is at
least one step higher than the salary received in the position
relinquished; but if not, he shall receive initially that step
schedule pertaining to such position which will provide a one-
step increase in his compensation.
   (c) Officers and attaches may be voluntarily transferred
from a position in the service of a court in one judicial dis-
trict to a position in the service of a court in another judicial
district within the County of San Diego, from a position in
the service of the County of San Diego to a position in the
service of a court or between the offices of clerk and marshal
within the same judicial district in the same manner that
classified employees of the County of San Diego may be trans-
 2600              STATUSES OF CALIFORNIA               VQ^ ^3Q2

 ferred between departments of the county. I n determining the
 step of the salary range at which such transferred employee
 shall be paid, the employee may be given credit for continuous
 prior service in the service of the court or the County of San
 Diego from which he was transferred.
    (d) When any person in the service of the court is demoted
 to another position he shall receive compensation at the high-
 est step of the salary schedule applicable to the position to
which he is demoted which provides a salary not higher than
 that previously received by such person, except that if such
 demotion is due to disciplinary action, the appointing power
may specify any step rate of such schedule which provides
compensation not higher than that last previously received by
such person.
    (e) The hereinafter enumerated classes of positions in the
court are deemed to be comparable in job level to certain
classifications in the classified civil service of San Diego
County and whenever the salaries of such classifications in the
service of San Diego County are adjusted by the board of
supervisors, the salaries of the comparable classifications in
the clerk's office shall be adjusted a commensurate percentage
in the salary schedule. Such adjustment shall not be more
than 20 percent higher or 20 percent lower than the ranges
specified in this article. Such adjustments shall be effective on
the same date as the effective date of the action by the board
of supervisors as it applies to the county classifications. In the
event that the salary of any of the San Diego County classifi-
cations listed in this section are adjusted by the board of
supervisors on any date in 1969 prior to the effective date of
any amendments to this article enacted by the Legislature at
the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature, commensurate
adjustments shall be applied to the salaries of the comparable
classifications in the clerk's office, such adjustments to take
effect on the effective date of any amendments of this article
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature. Any
salary adjustments made as a result of this section shall be
effective only until 61 days after the adjournment of the
Legislature at the 1971 Regular Session.
   The comparable classifications are as follows:

Municipal court classification             County classification
Chief deputy                               Superior court clerk
Deputy clerk, chief clerk                  Superior court clerk
Deputy clerk, assistant chief clerk        Superior court clerk
Deputy clerk I                                     Junior clerk
Deputy clerk I I                             Intermediate clerk
Deputy clerk I I I                                 Senior clerk
Deputy clerk IV                            Superior court clerk
Keypunch operator                           Keypunch operator
Court interpreter                                  Senior clerk
Deputy clerk stenographer                  Senior stenographer
                    1969
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2601

   SEC. 73. Section 74343.2 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74343.2. There shall be three court interpreters who shall
be deputy clerks to be appointed by a majority of the judges
of the court and who shall receive a monthly salary at a rate
specified in Schedule 28 of the salary schedule provided in
Section 74343.1.
   SEC. 74. Section 74344 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74344. In no event shall the salary of the clerk or any
deputy clerk who occupied his position on the day prior to the
effective date of the amendments to this article enacted at the
1969 Regular Session of the Legislature be less than his salary
on such day.
   SEC. 75. Section 74350 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74350. (a) All persons holding positions on the 91st day
after any regular session of the Legislature shall continue in
their respective positions without further examination or quali-
fication and at the added compensation provided in this article,
including increments for continuous prior service in such posi-
tions in the court. Any person whose title is changed as a result
of this act shall receive credit for continued service to which
he would be entitled under his previous position and shall
receive compensation at the step covering such length of serv-
ice. Thereafter, any increments earned by additional service in
grade shall take effect upon the first day of the month follow-
ing completion of such required service.
   (b) I n addition to the compensation provided in this ar-
ticle, the attaches of the municipal court shall receive, and
they shall be entitled to the same vacations, sick leave, leaves
of absence and similar privileges and benefits as are now or
may hereafter be provided for the employees of the County
of San Diego, including the right to participate in a retirement
plan, in any group health, accident or life insurance plan
adopted by the Board of Supervisors of San Diego County,
and in the tuition refund and suggestion awards programs
adopted by the board. Such privileges and benefits shall be
retroactively applied. The majority of all the municipal court
judges may adopt rules for the conduct of and personnel priv-
ileges to be afforded the attaches of the court.
   (c) All attaches may be appointed, promoted, removed, sus-
pended or discharged for cause by the appointing authority
subject in such appointment, promotion, removal, suspension
or discharge to civil service provisions applicable to the classi-
fied personnel of San Diego County. "Whenever a person or
attache is appointed or promoted to a position, such person or
attache must serve a probationary period of at least six months.
   (d) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 71183, a per-
son appointed by the clerk from an eligible list certified by
the Civil Service Commission of the County of San Diego to
2602                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                r Q h J3Q2

 fill a temporary position established pursuant to Section 72150
 and employed in such temporary position immediately prior to
 the 91st day after the final adjournment of a regular session
 of the Legislature, may be appointed by such clerk to a like
 permanent position in such clerk's office without further exam-
 ination, qualification or certification on a civil service eligible
 list; provided, that the number of such positions in the clerk's
 office has been increased by the last regular session of the
 Legislature so as to make such temporary position a perma-
 nent position.
     SEC. 75.1. Section 74352 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
     SEC. 75.2. Section 74352 is added to the Government Code,
 to read -.
    74352. In any civil action or proceedings filed in the San
 Diego, El Cajon or North County Judicial Districts, where
 the principal amount of the prayer of the complaint, exclusive
 of interest, exemplary damages, attorneys fees and costs ex-
 ceeds three hundred dollars ($300), in addition to the fees
 required by Article 2 (commencing with Section 72050) of
 Chapter 8 of this title, a fee of ten dollars ($10) shall be paid
 to the clerk of the court by each party or jointly by parties
 appearing jointly, once only in any such action or proceedings,
 in the following instances:
     (a) Upon the filing of a complaint or other first paper;
     (b) Upon the filing of an answer or other first paper on
 behalf of any party (or parties appearing jointly) other than
 the plaintiff;
     (c) Upon the filing of papers transmitted from another
 court on the transfer of a civil action or a special proceeding.
    The fees so required shall be taxed as costs in favor of the
party paying the same and to whom costs are awarded by the
judgment of the court. All fees collected under the provisions
of this section shall be transmitted to the county treasurer in
the same manner as fees collected under Article 2 (commenc-
ing with Section 72050) of Chapter 8 of this title.
    SEC. 76. Section 74357 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    74357. By order entered upon the minutes of the court, a
majority of the judges of the Municipal Court of the San Diego
Judicial District may appoint as many competent judicial
secretaries as the business of the court requires, not to exceed
five, to be known as judicial secretaries of such court. The
judicial secretaries shall hold office during the pleasure of the
judges of such court. Of the judicial secretaries, one shall be
appointed by the presiding judge as the chief judicial secre-
tary, such appointment to be entered upon the minutes of the
court, who, while serving in that capacity, shall receive a
monthly salary at a rate two schedules higher than that which
such judicial secretary would receive prior to such assign-
ment. The value, in dollars, of each monthly salary herein
                     1969
 Ch. 13021                  REGULAR SESSION                  2603

  shall be at the rates indicated opposite the respective sched-
  ule number in the salary schedule provided in Section
   74343.1.
     Each judicial secretary shall receive a monthly salary at the
  rate specified in Schedule 30.5, commencing at step D at
  initial employment and advancing to step B at the end of one
  year of continuous service. The position of judicial secretary
  shall be deemed to be comparable in job level to the position
  of assistant secretary authorized by Section 69892. Whenever
  the salary of such assistant secretaries are adjusted by the
  Board of Supervisors of San Diego County, the salary of judi-
  cial secretary shall be adjusted a commensurate percentage in
  the salary schedule. Such adjustment shall not be more than
  20 percent higher or 20 percent lower than the range specified
  in this section and shall be effective on the same date as the
  effective date of the action by the board of supervisors on the
 position of assistant secretary. Any salary adjustment made as
  a result of this section shall be effective only until 60 days
 after the final adjournment of the 1971 Regular Session of the
 Legislature.
     SEC. 77. Section 74361 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    74361. There shall be one marshal for all municipal courts
 established in judicial districts in San Diego County who shall
 be appointed pursuant to this article and who shall receive the
 monthly compensation specified in Schedule 51, set forth in
 Section 74343.1. I n no event shall the compensation of the
 marshal be less than 12 schedule ranges higher than that speci-
 fied for the position of assistant marshal.
    SEC. 78. Section 74364 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    74364. The marshal may appoint:
     (a) Two assistant marshals, each of whom shall receive the
 monthly compensation specified in Schedule 45, set forth in
Section 74343.1.
     (b) One captain, who shall receive the monthly compensa-
tion specified in Schedule 43 set forth in Section 74343.1.
     (c) Three lieutenants, each of whom shall receive the
monthly compensation specified in Schedule 40, set forth in
Section 74343.1.
     (d) Twelve sergeants, each of whom shall receive the
monthly compensation specified in Schedule 37, set forth in
Section 74343.1.
    (e) One deputy marshal (female), who shall receive the
monthly compensation specified in Schedule 34, set forth in
Section 74343.1. Upon the occurrence of a vacancy, this posi-
tion shall be replaced by adding one sergeant.
    (f) Ninety deputy marshals, each of whom shall receive
monthly the compensation specified in Schedule 34, set forth
in Section 74343.1.
2604              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               || QJj JgQg

   (g) Eleven deputy marshal-stenographers, each of "whom
shall receive the monthly compensation specified in Schedule
28.5, set forth in Section-74343.1. The next two vacancies oc-
curring in this position shall cause a corresponding reduction
in the number of deputy marshal-stenographers hereby author-
ized ; provided, however, that each such vacancy shall increase
by one, a position designated as intermediate typist. The posi-
tions of intermediate typist shall each receive the compensation
specified in subdivision (i) of this section. The following six
vacancies occurring in this position shall cause a corresponding
 reduction in the number of deputy marshal-stenographers
hereby authorized; provided, however, that each such vacancy
shall increase by one, a position designated as senior typist.
 The positions of senior typist shall each receive the compensa-
tion specified in subdivision (j) of this section.
   (h) Three deputy marshal-matrons, who shall receive the
monthly compensation specified in Schedule 32, set forth in
Section 74343.1.
    (i) Nine intermediate typists, who shall receive the monthly
compensation specified in Schedule 24, set forth in Section
74343.1; provided that any intermediate typist while qualified
and performing services as an interpreter shall be paid at a
monthly rate which shall be eight salary ranges higher than
that specified for the position of intermediate typist as set
forth in Section 74343.1. All persons holding the position of
clerk on the 91st day after the 1969 Regular Session of the
Legislature shall succeed to the position of intermediate typist.
   (j) Senior typists who shall be appointed on the occurrence
of a vacancy in the position of deputy marshal-stenographer
and who shall receive the monthly compensation specified in
Schedule 28, set forth in Section 74343.1.
   (k) Two deputy marshal-cadets, each of whom shall receive
the monthly compensation specified in Schedule 23.5, set
forth in Section 74343.1.
   (I) Every person specified in subdivision (g), (i) or (j) who
works a night shift shall be paid at the monthly rate specified
in the schedule set forth in Section 74343.1 two ranges higher
than the rate provided by the applicable subdivision. "Night
shift" means an assigned work schedule of which not less than
one-half of the total number of hours, plus one-half hour, are
worked after 5 p.m. and before 8 a.m.
   SEC. 79. Section 74369 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74369. All persons holding positions on the 91st day after
the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature shall continue
in their respective positions without further examination or
qualification and at the added compensation provided in this
article, including increments for continuous prior service in
such positions in the court. Thereafter, any increments earned
by additional service in grade shall take effect upon the first
                          1969
Ch. 1302]                        REGULAR SESSION                   2605

 day of the month following completion of such required
 service.
   SEC. 80. Section 74374 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
   74374. The hereinafter enumerated classes of positions in
the marshal's office of the municipal courts in San Diego
 County are deemed to be equivalent in job and salary level
to certain classifications in the classified civil service of San
 Diego County and whenever the salary of a classification in the
service of San Diego County is adjusted by the board of super-
visors, the salary of the equivalent classification in the mar-
shal 's office shall be adjusted a commensurate number of ranges
in the salary schedule. Such adjustment shall not be more than
eight ranges higher or eight ranges lower than the range speci-
fied in this article. Such adjustments shall be effective on the
same date as the effective date of the action by the board of
supervisors as it applies to the county classifications. In the
event the salary of any San Diego County classification listed
in this section is adjusted by the board of supervisors on any
date in 1969 prior to the effective date of the 1969 amendment
of this section, said adjustment shall be applied to the salary
of the equivalent classifications in the marshal's office, such
adjustments to take effect on the effective date of said 1969
amendment. Any salary adjustments made as a result of this
section shall be effective only until 61 days after the ad-
journment of the 1971 General Session of the State Legislature.
   The equivalent classifications are as follows:
Municipal court marshal
     classification                                County classification
Assistant marshal                    Chief deputy sheriff
Captain                            Deputy sheriff-captain
Lieutenant                       Deputy sheriff-lieutenant
Sergeant                          Deputy sheriff-sergeant
Deputy marshal and deputy marshal—female -Deputy sheriff
Deputy marshal-matron              Deputy sheriff-matron
Deputy marshal-stenographer          Senior stenographer
Senior typist                               Senior typist
Intermediate typist                   Intermediate typist
Cadet                                Deputy sheriff-cadet

   SEC. 81. Section 74376 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74376. In the event that the number of judges provided by
Sections 73641, 73951, and 74341 of this code is increased, or
that additional municipal court judicial districts are provided
in the County of San Diego, thereby causing an increase in the
number of judges, the marshal of the municipal courts may
appoint one deputy marshal, who shall receive compensation
at the rate specified by subdivision (f) of Section 74364 and
Section 74374, for each additional judge appointed or elected.
2606               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [(Jh. J302

    SEC. 81.1. Section 74502 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    74502. There shall be one clerk who shall also serve as
 secretary to the judges and who shall be paid a salary of
 one thousand nine hundred seventy dollars ($1,970) a month.
 Whenever any vacancy occurs after the effective date hereof,
 the judges, or a majority of them, notwithstanding any other
 provisions of the Government Code, shall appoint one clerk
 who shall also serve as secretary to the judges, and who shall
 hold office at their pleasure and who shall receive the salary
 hereinabove provided.
    SEC. 81.2. Section 74503 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    74503. (a) There shall be one chief deputy, who shall also
 serve as jury commissioner and who shall exercise the powers
 of jury commissioners of superior courts insofar as they are ap-
 plicable to the municipal courts and who shall perform such
 other duties as assigned by the judges of the court and who
 shall be paid a salary of one thousand four hundred ninety-
nine dollars ($1,449) monthly. Whenever any vacancy occurs
 after the effective date hereof, the judges, or a majority of
 them, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Government
 Code, shall appoint one chief deputy, who shall also serve as
 jury commissioner, and who shall hold office at their pleasure,
 and who shall perform such other duties as assigned by the
 judges of the court, and who shall receive the salary herein-
 above provided.
    (b) There shall be one assistant to the jury commissioner
who shall perform such duties as assigned by the judges of the
court and who shall be paid a minimum salary of one thousand
two hundred sixty-six dollars ($1,266) monthly during the
first year of service, a salary of one thousand three hundred
twenty-seven dollars ($1,327) monthly after the first year of
service commencing on the first day of the month following
the first anniversary of his appointment, and a maximum sal-
ary of one thousand three hundred eighty-nine dollars ($1,389)
monthly after the second year of service commencing on the
first day of the month following the second anniversary of his
appointment. Whenever any vacancy occurs after the effective
date hereof, the judges, or a majority of them, notwithstand-
ing any other provisions of the Government Code, shall appoint
one assistant to the jury commissioner, and who shall hold
office at their pleasure, and who shall perform such duties as
assigned by the judges of the court, and who shall receive the
salary hereinabove provided.
   (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 74507, the
clerk shall appoint one deputy clerk who shall be head ac-
countant, accounting division, and who shall possess the quali-
fications and perform the duties of class number 1656, as set
forth in City and County of San Francisco class specifications
on April 1, 1968, and who shall be paid a salary of one thou-
                     19G9
Ch 13021                    REGULAR SESSION                 2607

 sand two hundred dollars ($1,200) monthly during the first
 year of service, a salary of one thousand two hundred sixty
 dollars ($1,260) monthly during the second year of service,
 commencing on the first day of the month following the first
 anniversary of his appointment, a salary of one thousand
 three hundred twenty-three dollars ($1,323) monthly during
 the third year of service, commencing on the first day of the
 month following the second anniversary of his appointment,
 a salary of one thousand three hundred ninety dollars ($1,390)
 monthly during the fourth year of service, commencing on
 the first day of the month following the third anniversary of
 his appointment, and a maximum of one thousand four hun-
 dred sixty dollars ($1,460) monthly, commencing on the first
 day of the month following the fourth anniversary of his
 appointment.
    (d) The clerk shall appoint three deputy clerks who shall
 he the chief division clerks in the civil, criminal, and traffic
 departments of the court, and who shall be paid a minimum
 salary of one thousand two hundred sixty-six dollars ($1,266)
 monthly during the first year of service, a salary of one thou-
sand three hundred twenty-seven dollars ($1,327) monthly
after the first year of service commencing on the first day of
the month following the first anniversary of his appointment,
and a maximum salary of one thousand three hundred eighty-
nine dollars ($1,389) monthly after the second year of service
commencing on the first day of the month following the second
anniversary of his appointment.
   SEC. 81.3. Section 74504 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74504. The clerk shall also appoint:
    (a) Five deputy clerks who shall be assistant chief division
clerks and who shall be paid a minimum salary of one thou-
sand ninety-seven dollars ($1,097) monthly during the first
year of service, a salary of one thousand one hundred fifty-
one dollars ($1,151) monthly after the first year of service,
commencing on the first day of the month following the first
anniversary of his appointment, and a maximum salary of one
thousand two hundred twelve dollars ($1,212) monthly after
the second year of service commencing on the first day of the
month following the second anniversary of his appointment.
    (b) Twenty-seven deputy clerks who shall be paid a mini-
mum salary of nine hundred twenty-two dollars ($922)
monthly during the first year of service, a salary of nine
hundred eighty-three dollars ($983) monthly after the first
year of service, commencing on the first day of the month
following the first anniversary of his appointment, and a
maximum salary of one thousand sixty-four dollars ($1,064)
monthly after the second year of service commencing on the
first day of the month following the second anniversary of his
appointment.
2608               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQfa 13Q2

     (c) Fifteen deputy clerks who shall be paid a minimum
 salary of seven hundred ninety-four dollars ($794) monthly
 during the first year of service, a salary of eight hundred
 twenty-three dollars ($823) monthly after the first year of
 service, commencing on the first day of the month following
 the first anniversary of his appointment and a maximum
 salary of eight hundred fifty-five dollars ($855) monthly, after
 the second year of service, commencing on the first day of the
 month following the second anniversary of his appointment.
     (d) Eighteen deputy clerks who shall be paid a minimum
 salary of seven hundred thirty-seven dollars ($737) monthly
 during the first year of service, a salary of seven hundred
 fifty-seven dollars ($757) monthly after the first year of serv-
 ice, commencing on the first day of the month following the
 first anniversary of his appointment, and a maximum salary
 of seven hundred eighty dollars ($780) monthly after the
 second year of service, commencing on the first day of the
 month following the second anniversary of his appointment.
 While assigned as administrative secretary to the clerk of the
 municipal court any deputy in Section 74504(d) shall be
 paid in addition to the salary provided by this article, the ad-
 ditional sum of one hundred dollars ($100) monthly.
     (e) Five deputy clerks who shall be paid a minimum salary
of six hundred ninety-six dollars ($696) monthly during the
first year of service, a salary of seven hundred seventeen dol-
lars ($717) monthly after the first year of service, commenc-
ing on the first day of the month following the first anniver-
sary of his appointment, and a maximum salary of seven
hundred thirty-five dollars ($735) monthly after the second
year of service commencing on the first day of the month fol-
lowing the second anniversary of his appointment. While
assigned as budget-purchasing deputy to the head accountant,
accounting division, any deputy in this subdivision shall be
paid in addition to the salary provided by this article, the
additional sum of fifty dollars ($50) monthly.
    (f) Twenty-seven deputy clerks who shall be paid a mini-
mum salary of six hundred thirty-eight dollars ($638) monthly
during the first year of service, a salary of six hundred sixty
dollars ($660) monthly after the first year of service com-
mencing on the first day of the month following the first
anniversary of his appointment, and a maximum salary of
six hundred eighty-five dollars ($685) monthly after the sec-
ond year of service, commencing on the first day of the month
following the second anniversary of his appointment.
    (g) Thirty-seven deputy clerks who shall be paid a mini-
mum salary of five hundred dollars ($500) monthly during
the first year of service, a salary of five hundred forty-six dol-
lars ($546) monthly after the first year of service commencing
on the first day of the month following the first anniversary of
his appointment, and a maximum salary of six hundred seven
dollars ($607) monthly after the second year of service, com-
                    1969
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2609

mencing on the first day of the month following the second
anniversary of his appointment.
    (li) Three information clerks who shall be paid a minimum
salary of five hundred ten dollars ($510) monthly during the
first year of service, a salary of five hundred eighty-six dollars
 ($586) monthly after the first year of service, commencing on
the first day of the month following the first anniversary of
his appointment, and a maximum salary of six hundred sixty-
three dollars ($663) monthly after the second year of service,
commencing on the first day of the month following the second
anniversary of his appointment. Whenever any vacancy oc-
curs, after the effective date hereof, the judges, or a majority
of them, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Govern-
ment Code, shall appoint an information clerk, who shall per-
form the duties of deputy clerk and such other duties as
assigned by the clerk.
   SEC. 81.4. Section 74642 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74642. There shall be one clerk of the municipal court, one
assistant clerk of the municipal court, seven municipal court
clerks, one senior account clerk, two senior clerks, six inter-
mediate clerks, eight typist-clerks and one clerk, each of whom
shall receive a salary in accordance with Section 74644 and
Section 74644.1.
   SEC. 81.5. Section 74644 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74644. (a) The monthly salaries for the following classes
of positions shall be, and shall be increased, in accordance with
the schedule set forth below:

                        Range A     B   C     D       E
Clerk of the municipal
  court                   71 $881 $925 $971 $1,019 $1,070
Assistant clerk of the
  municipal court         56  610 641 674      707    742
Municipal court clerk     50  527 553 581      610    641
Senior account clerk      46  478 502 527      553    581
Senior clerk              44  455 478 502      527 553
Senior typist-clerk       44  455 478 502      527    553
Intermediate typist-clerk 38 .392 412 433      455    478
Intermediate clerk        38  392 412 433      455    478
Typist-clerk              34  355 373 392      412 433
Clerk                     32  338 355 373      392 412
Marshal                   74  947 994 1,044 1,096 1151
Chief deputy marshal      64  742 779 818      859    902
Senior deputy marshal     60  673 707 742      779    818
Deputy marshal            56  610 641 673      707 742
  All figures in columns A, B, C, D, and B represent dollars
per calendar month.
2610              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Q^ 13£)2

   Chief deputy marshals and deputy marshals shall receive
such initial and annual uniform allowances as may be pro-
vided by resolution or ordinance to those employees of the
sheriff's department of Santa Barbara County who are clas-
sified as deputy sheriffs.
    (b) The administration of the salary plan provided by this
article including the hiring rate, increases within range, sal-
ary on promotion, and salary on position reclassification, shall
be in accordance with the current personnel rules and salary
ordinance of the County of Santa Barbara, and any employee
who on the effective date of the amendments to this section
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature is
receiving a rate of compensation in excess of column " E " of
the range prescribed for his class shall continue to receive
such compensation until his position is first vacated, or until
such time as the compensation or range is otherwise changed
as prescribed by law.
    (c) On and after the effective date of the amendments to
this section enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legis-
lature, the following regulations will govern the administra-
tion of the classification and compensation schedule contained
herein:
    (1) Except as otherwise provided in this article, all employ-
ees shall be entitled to the same vacation, sick leave, leave of
absence, and similar benefits, and shall be subject to the same
rules and regulations concerning length of workweek, anni-
versary dates and changes thereof, as is now or may be pro-
vided by ordinances and policies approved by the Board of
Supervisors of Santa Barbara County for other employees of
the county.
   Nothing in this act shall be construed to place the marshal's
or clerk's office, their employees and other municipal court
attaches under the merit system of Santa Barbara County but
such employees and attaches may be placed under that merit
system by court rule adopted by the judges of this municipal
court.
    (2) For the purposes of this article, an employee, unless
otherwise designated, refers to every person filling any posi-
tion established by Sections 74642 and 74643.
   SEC. 81.6. Section 74644.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74644.1. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ar-
ticle, if at any date on or after April 1, 1969, any different
compensation is established for any of the hereinafter men-
tioned positions under the County of Santa Barbara Salary
Ordinance, the following provisions shall apply to salaries
mentioned in this article:
    (a) Whenever a different compensation is established for
the class of position now and hereafter designated in the Santa
Barbara County Salary Ordinance as superior court clerk the
                    1969
Ch. 13021                  REGULAR SESSION                  2611

percentage of such increase or decrease shall be ascertained
and the salary range for the classification of clerk of the mu-
nicipal court, assistant clerk of the municipal court, and
municipal court clerk under this article shall be changed by
increasing or decreasing each salary column within the ap-
propriate range by such percentage, rounded off to the nearest
dollar.
    (b) Whenever a different compensation is established for the
class of position now and hereafter designated in the Santa
Barbara County Salary Ordinance as senior account clerk,
senior clerk, senior typist-clerk, intermediate typist-clerk,
intermediate clerk, typist-clerk and clerk, the percentage of
such increase or decrease shall be ascertained and the salary
range for the classification of senior account clerk, senior
clerk, senior typist-clerk, intermediate typist-clerk, intermedi-
ate clerk, typist-clerk and clerk, under this article shall be
changed by increasing or decreasing each salary column within
the appropriate range by such percentage, rounded off to the
nearest dollar.
    (e) Whenever a different compensation is established for
the class of position now and hereafter designated in the Santa
Barbara County Salary Ordinance as deputy sheriff, the per-
centage of such increase or decrease shall be ascertained and
the salary range for the classification of marshal, chief deputy
marshal, senior deputy marshal, and deputy marshal under
this article shall be changed by increasing or decreasing each
salary column within the appropriate range by such percent-
 age, rounded off to the nearest dollar.
    Whenever a salary increase is authorized by this article,
 such increase shall be payable at the same time the correspond-
 ing increase under the Santa Barbara County Salary Ordi-
 nance is payable.
    This section shall remain in effect until the 61st day after
 the final adjournment of the 1971 Regular Session of the
 Legislature.
     SEC. 82. Section 74693 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    74693. The clerk may appoint:
     (a) One assistant municipal court clerk who shall receive a
 biweekly salary at the rate specified in range 38 of the salary
 schedule provided in Section 74693.1.
     (b) One deputy court clerk grade IV who shall receive a
  biweekly salary at the rate specified in range 34 of the salary
  schedule provided in Section 74693.1.
      (c) Four deputy court clerks grade I I I who shall receive a
  biweekly salary at the rate specified in range 28 of the salary
  schedule provided in Section 74693.1.
      (d) Eleven deputy court clerks each of whom shall be either
  grade I or grade II. Grade I I deputy clerks shall receive a
  biweekly salary at the rate specified in range 22 of the salary
2612               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQh 1 3 0 2

 schedule in Section 74693.1. Grade I deputy clerks shall receive
 a biweekly salary at the rate specified in range 15 of the
 schedule.
    The additional deputy court clerk positions authorized by
 this section shall be grade I I positions.
    SEC. 83. Section 74693.2 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    74693.2. Notwithstanding any other provision in this arti-
 cle, the salaries of municipal court employees may, upon ap-
 proval by the board of supervisors, be increased in the same
 manner and at the same rate as a general salary increase is
 effective for other permanent county salaried employees. A
 "general salary increase" shall be considered to have been
 granted when 75 percent or more of the permanent salaried
 employees of the county have been granted a salary increase
 of one or more ranges, as adopted by the Santa Cruz County
 Board of Supervisors by amendment to the Santa Cruz County
 Code, in addition to any regular annual step increase.
    I t is the purpose of this section to provide compensation for
 municipal court employees which is comparable to that paid
 to county employees of similar qualifications and experience
 holding equal or comparable positions in the Santa Cruz
 County classified service, as such comparability is determined
by the Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors.
    Any adjustments of salaries made pursuant to this section
 shall remain in effect until the 61st day after adjournment of
 the next regular session of the Legislature which commences
 after the adjustment.
    Employees of the municipal court shall be entitled to all
employee benefits that are provided for or made applicable to
employees within the classified service pursuant to the Santa
 Cruz County Code, to the extent that the benefits are not
contrary to state law.
    SEC. 84. Section 74702 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    74702. There shall be one clerk who shall receive a mini-
mum salary of eight hundred one dollars ($801) monthly with
annual increments of forty dollars ($40), forty-two dollars
 ($42), forty-four dollars ($44), and forty-seven dollars ($47),
to a maximum of nine hundred seventy-four dollars ($974).
   SEC. 85. Section 74703 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74703. The clerk may appoint:
    (a) One assistant clerk who shall receive a minimum salary
of five hundred fifty-six dollars ($556) monthly with annual
increments of twenty-eight dollars ($28), twenty-nine dollars
($29), thirty-one dollars ($31), and thirty-two dollars ($32),
to a maximum of six hundred seventy-six dollars ($676).
    (b) Four deputy clerks, grade III, each of whom shall re-
ceive a minimum salary of four hundred eighty-one dollars
                    l9M
Ch. 1302]                 REGULAR SESSION                  2613

 ($481) monthly with annual increments of twenty-four dollars
 ($24), twenty-five dollars ($25), twenty-six dollars ($26), and
twenty-eight dollars ($28), to a maximum of five hundred
eighty-four dollars ($584).
    (c) Five deputy clerks, grade II, each of whom shall receive
a minimum salary of four hundred thirty-six dollars ($436)
monthly with annual increments of twenty-two dollars ($22),
twenty-three dollars ($23), twenty-four dollars ($24), and
twenty-five dollars ($25), to a maximum of five hundred thirty
dollars ($530).
   (d) Five deputy clerks, grade I, each of whom shall receive
a minimum salary of three hundred seventy-six dollars ($376)
monthly, with annual increments of eighteen dollars ($18),
nineteen dollars ($19), twenty dollars ($20), twenty-one dollars
 ($21) and twenty-two dollars ($22), to a maximum of four
hundred fifty-eight dollars ($458).
   SEC. 86. Section 74722 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74722. There shall be one clerk who shall receive a mini-
mum salary of eight hundred one dollars ($801) monthly with
annual increments of forty dollars ($40), forty-two dollars
 ($42), forty-four dollars ($44), and forty-seven dollars ($47),
to a maximum of nine hundred seventy-four dollars ($974).
   SEC. 87. Section 74723 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74723. The clerk may appoint:
   (a) Two assistant clerks, each of whom shall receive a mini-
mum salary of five hundred fifty-six dollars ($556) monthly
with annual increments of twenty-eight dollars ($28), twenty-
nine dollars ($29), thirty-one dollars ($31), and thirty-two
dollars ($32), to a maximum salary of six hundred seventy-
six dollars ($676).
   (b) Two deputy clerks, grade I I , each of whom shall receive
a minimum salary of four hundred thirty-six dollars ($436)
monthly with annual increments of, twenty-two dollars ($22),
twenty-three dollars ($23), twenty-four dollars ($24), and
twenty-five dollars ($25), to a maximum of five hundred thirty
dollars ($530).
   (c) Three deputy clerks, grade I, each of whom shall receive
a minimum salary of three hundred seventy-six dollars ($376)
monthly, with annual increments of nineteen dollars ($19),
twenty dollars ($20), twenty-one dollars ($21), and twenty-
two dollars ($22), to a maximum of four hundred fifty-eight
dollars ($458).
   SEC. 88. Section 74802 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74802. There shall be one clerk who shall be the adminis-
trative officer and who shall receive the salary specified in
Section 74807.
2614               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             r Qfa_ 13Q2

      SEC. 89. Section 74803 of the Government Code is amended
  to read:
     74803. The clerk may appoint:
      (a) One deputy clerk who shall be assistant administrative
  officer and chief deputy.
      (b) Six deputy clerks IV.
      (e) Four deputy clerks I I I .
      (d) One deputy clerk I I I (stenographer).
      (e) Four deputy clerks II.
      (f) Thirteen deputy clerks I.
     SEC. 89.1. Section 74804 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
     74804. There shall be one marshal who shall receive one
 thousand dollars ($1,000) a month.
     SEC. 90. Section 74805 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
     74805. The marshal may appoint:
     (a) One assistant marshal.
     (b) Five deputy marshals.
     (c) One clerk IV.
     (d) One clerk-typist II.
     (e) Twenty deputies who shall be custodians at the fee al-
lowed, by law for the keeping of property.
     SEC. 91. Section 74806 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    74806. The following biweekly salary schedule shall apply
to persons employed in the clerk's office and in the marshal's
office:
                          Salary Schedule
Salary
 range                                    Steps
number                    A          B      C      D        E
    18                 $158.40 $166.40 $174.40 $183.20 $192.00
    18.5                 162.40 170.40 178.40 187.20 196.80
    19                   166.40 174.40 183.20 192.00 201.60
    19.5                 170.40 178.40 187.20 196.80 206.40
   20                   174.40 183.20 192.00 201.60 212.00
   20.5                 178.40 187.20 196.80 206.40 216.80
   21                   183.20 192.00 201.60 212.00 222.40
   21.5                 187.20 196.80 206.40 216.80 228.00
   22                   192.00 201.60 212.00 222.40 233.60
   22.5                 196.80 206.40 216.80 228.00 239.20
   23                   201.60 212.00 222.40 233.60 245.60
   23.5                 206.40 216.80 228.00 239.20 251.20
   24                   212.00 222.40 223.60 245.60 257.60
   24.5                 216.80 228.00 239.20 251.20 264.00
   25                   222.40 233.60 245.60 257.60 270.40
   25.5                 228.00 239.20 251.20 264.00 276.80
   26                   233.60 245.60 257.60 270.40 284.00
   26.5                 239.20 251.20 264.00 276.80 291.20
   27                   245.60 257.60 270.40 284.00 298.40
                   1969
Ch. 13021                 REGULAR SESSION                      2615
 Salary
 range                                     Steps
number                  A        B           C        D         E
  27.5                251.20    264.00    276.80    291.20    305.60
  28                  257.60    270.40    284.00    298.40    313.60
  28.5                264.00    276.80    291.20    305.60    321.60
  29                  270.40    284.00    298.40    313.60    329.60
  29.5                276.80    291.20    305.60    321.60    337.60
  30                  284.00    298.40    313.60    329.60    346.40
  30.5                291.20    305.60    321.60    337.60    355.20
  31                  298.40    313.60    329.60    346.40    364.00
  31.5                305.60    321.60    337.60    355.20    372.80
  32                  313.60    329.60    346.40    364.00    382.40
  32.5                321.60    337.60    355.20    372.80    392.00
  33                  329.60    346.40    364.00    382.40    401.60
  33.5                337.60    355.20    372.80    392.00    411.20
  34                  346.40    364.00    382.40    401.60    421.60
  34.5                355.20    372.80    392.00    411.20    432.00
  35                  364.00    382.40    401.60    421.60    442.40
  35.5                372.80    392.00    411.20    432.00    453.60
  36                  382.40    401.60    421.60    442.40    464.80
   36.5               392.00    411.20    432.00    453.60    476.00
  37                  401.60    421.60    442.40    464.80    488.00
  37.5                411.20    432.00    453.60    476.00    500.00
   38                 421.60    442.40    464.80    488.00    512.80
   38.5               432.00    453.60    476.00    500.00    525.60
   39                 442.40    464.80    488.00    512.80    538.40
   39.5               453.60    476.00    500.00    525.60    552.00
   40                 464.80    488.00     512.80    538.40   565.60
   40.5               476.00    500.00     525.60    552.00   579.20
   41                 488.00     512.80    538.40    565.60    593.60
   41.5                500.00    525.60    552.00    579.20    608.00
   42                  512.80    538.40    565.60    593.60    623.20
   42.5                525.60    552.00    579.20    608.00    638.40
   43                  538.40    565.60    593.60    623.20    654.40

   SEC. 92. Section 74807 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74807. Persons employed in any of the positions authorized
by this article shall be paid the salary assigned to the follow-
ing ranges as set forth in the biweekly salary schedule con-
tained in Section 74806 :

   (a) Deputy clerk I                                Range 21
   (b) Deputy clerk I I                              Range 23
   (c) Deputy clerk I I I                            Range 25
   (d) Deputy clerk I I I (stenographer)             Range 25.5
   (e) Deputy clerk IV                               Range 28
   (f) Chief deputy clerk                            Range 33
   (g) Clerk                                         Range 40
   (h) Clerk-typist I I                              Range 21
2616               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQ^   2302

   (i) Clerk IV                                     Eange 25
   (j) Deputy marshal                               Range 29.5
   (k) Assistant marshal                            Eange 33.5

     Each person employed in the clerk's office or marshal's office
 on September 20, 1963, including the clerk but not including
 the marshal, shall receive credit for prior continuous service in
office (including service in departments superseded upon the
 establishment of the municipal court), and shall receive in-
 stead of the minimum rate established for his salary range, a
 salary increased by one step on the range for each full year
of prior service up to the maximum step on the salary range.
     Subject to the provisions of the San Joaquin County Salary
 Ordinance, each person employed in the clerk's office or mar-
 shal 's office, including the clerk but not including the marshal,
may receive an annual increase in salary of one step on his
assigned range until the employee reaches the maximum step
 on the range assigned for his position. Thereafter no addi-
 tional step increase shall be granted.
     SEC. 93. Section 74808 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
     74808. Certain classifications in the clerk's office and mar-
shal's office are deemed to be equivalent in job and salary level
to certain classifications in the service of San Joaquin County
and whenever the salary of a classification in the service of
San Joaquin County is adjusted by the board of supervisors,
the salary of the comparable classification in the clerk's office
or marshal's office, as well as the related classifications herein-
after listed, shall be adjusted an equal number of ranges on
the salary schedule. Such adjustments shall be effective on the
same date as the effective date of the action by the board of
supervisors as it applies to the county classifications, but such
adjustments shall be effective only until 90 days after the final
adjournment of the 1971 Regular Session of the Legislature.
     (a) The classes of deputy clerk I in the clerk's office and
clerk-typist I I in the marshal's office are equivalent in job and
salary level to the class of clerk-typist I I in the service of San
Joaquin County. Whenever the class of clerk-typist I I is ad-
justed, the classes of deputy clerk I, deputy clerk I I , deputy
clerk III, and clerk-typist I I shall be adjusted an equal number
of ranges on the salary schedule.
     (b) The class of deputy clerk I I I (stenographer) is equiva-
lent in job and salary to the class of clerk-stenographer I I I in
the service of San Joaquin County. Whenever the class of
clerk-stenographer I I I is adjusted, the class of deputy clerk
I I I (stenographer) shall be adjusted an equal number of
ranges on the salary schedule.
     (c) The class of deputy clerk IV is equivalent in job and
salary level to the class of superior court clerk in the service of
San Joaquin County. Whenever the class of superior court
                    l9S9
Ch. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSlOTSf               261?

clerk is adjusted, the classes of deputy clerk IV, chief deputy
clerk and clerk shall be adjusted an equal number of ranges on
the salary schedule.
   (d) The class of clerk IV is equivalent in job and salary
level to the class of clerk IV in the service of San Joaquin
County. Whenever the class of clerk I V is adjusted, the class
of clerk IV in the office of marshal shall be adjusted an equal
number of ranges on the salary schedule.
   (e) Whenever the salary of the class of deputy sheriff I in
the service of San Joaquin County is adjusted, the class of
deputy marshal and assistant marshal shall be adjusted an
equal number of ranges on the salary schedule.
   SEC. 93.1. Article 32.1 (commencing with Section 74815)
is added to Chapter 10 of Title 8 of the Government Code, to
read:
          Article 32.1. Southern San Joaquin County
   74815. There is hereby created in San Joaquin County a
municipal court district embracing the territory included in
the justice court district which includes the Cities of Manteca,
Escalon, and Ripon.
   74816. There shall be one judge.
   74817. There shall be one clerk, who shall be the adminis-
trative officer and act as secretary to the judge and who shall
receive a salary in accordance with Section 74822.
   74818. The clerk may appoint:
   (a) One deputy clerk I I I who shall be assistant administra-
tive officer and chief deputy.
   (b) Four deputy clerks II.
   (c) Two deputy clerks I.
   74819. There shall be one marshal who shall receive a salary
of nine hundred dollars ($900) a month.
   74820. The marshal may appoint:
   (a) One deputy marshal.
   (b) One clerk-typist II.
   74821. The following biweekly salary schedule shall apply
to persons employed in the clerk's office and marshal's office:

 Salary
 range                               Steps
number                A       B       C       D       E
  20               $174.40 $183.20 $192.00 $201.60 $212.00
  20.5              178.40 187.20 196.80 206.40 216.80
  21                183.20 192.00 201.60 212.00 222.40
  21.5              187.20 196.80 206.40 216.80 228.00
  22                192.00 201.60 212.00 222.40 233.60
  22.5              196.80 206.40 216.80 228.00 239.20
  23                201.60 212.00 222.40 233.60 245.60
  23.5              206.40 216.80 228.00 239.20 251.20
  24                212.00 222.40 233.60 245.60 257.60
  24.5              216.80 228.00 239.20 251.20 264.00
  25                222.40 233.60 245.60 257.60 270.40
2618               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qfo_ J3Q2

 Salary
 range                                  Steps
number                 A          B      C        D         E
  25.5               228.00   239.20   251.20   264.00   276.80
  26 _               233.60   245.60   257.60   270.40   284.00
  26.5 _             239.20   251.20   264.00   276.80   291.20
  27                 245.60   257.60   270.40   284.00   298.40
  27.5               251.20   264.00   276.80   291.20   305.60
  28                 257.60   270.40   284.00   298.40   313.60
  28.5               264.00   276.80   291.20   305.60   321.60
  29                 270.40   284.00   298.40   313.60   329.60
  29.5               276.80   291.20   305.60   321.60   337.60
  30                 284.00   298.40   313.60   329.60   346.40
  30.5               291.20   305.60   321.60   337.60   355.20
  31                 298.40   313.60   329.60   346.40   364.00
  31.5               305.60   321.60   337.60   355.20   372.80
  32                 313.60   329.60   346.40   364.00   382.40

  74822. Persons employed in any of the positions authorized
by this article shall be paid the salary assigned to the following
ranges as set forth in the salary schedule contained in Section
74821:

  (a) Deputy clerk I                               Range 21
  (b) Deputy clerk II                              Range 23
  (c) Deputy clerk I I I                           Range 25
  (d) Clerk                                        Range 30
  (e) Clerk-typist I I        .                    Range 21
  (f) Deputy marshal                               Range 29.5

   Subject to the provisions of the San Joaquin County Salary
Ordinance, each person employed in the clerk's office or mar-
shal 's office, including the clerk but not including the marshal,
may receive an annual increase in salary of one step on his
assigned range until the employee reaches the maximum step
on the range assigned for his position. Thereafter no addi-
tional step increase shall be granted.
   74823. Certain classifications in the clerk's office and mar-
shal's office are deemed to be equivalent in job and salary level
to certain classifications in the service of San Joaquin County
and whenever the salary of a classification in the service of
San Joaquin County is adjusted by the board of supervisors,
the salary of the comparable classification in the clerk's office
or marshal's office, as well as the related classifications here-
inafter listed, shall be adjusted an equal number of ranges on
the salary schedule. Such adjustments shall be effective on
the same date as the effective date of the action by the board
of supervisors as it applies to the county classifications, but
such adjustments shall be effective only until 90 days after
the final adjournment of the 1971 Regular Session of the Legis-
lature.
                    1969
Ch. 13021                  REGULAR SESSION                   2619

   (a) The classes of deputy clerk I in the clerk's office and
clerk-typist I I in the marshal's office are equivalent in job and
salary level to the class of clerk-typist II in the service of San
Joaquin County. Whenever the class of clerk-typist I I is ad-
justed, the classes of deputy clerk I, deputy clerk I I , deputy
clerk I I I and clerk-typist II shall be adjusted an equal num-
ber of ranges on the salary schedule.
   (b) Whenever the salary of the class of deputy sheriff I in
the service of San Joaquin County is adjusted, the class of
deputy marshal shall be adjusted an equal number of ranges
on the salary schedule.
   74824. This article shall become operative when it is de-
termined in the manner prescribed by Section 71043 that the
population of the Manteca-Bipon-Escalon Judicial District ex-
ceeds 40,000 and shall thereafter be known as the Municipal
Court District of Southern San Joaquin County.
   SEC. 94. Section 74844 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74844. There shall be one marshal who shall receive nine
hundred ninety-eight dollars ($998) monthly, provided, how-
ever, that in order to maintain comparability with the salaries
of the elected officials of the County of Solano whose salaries
are set by the board of supervisors, the judges, with the con-
currence of the board of supervisors, may establish one thou-
sand twenty-three dollars ($1,023), one thousand forty-eight
dollars ($1,048), one thousand seventy-four dollars ($1,074),
one thousand one hundred dollars ($1,100), one thousand one
hundred twenty-seven dollars ($1,127), one thousand one hun-
dred fifty-five dollars ($1,155), one thousand one hundred
eighty-four dollars ($1,184), to one thousand two hundred
thirteen dollars ($1,213) as the monthly salary.
   SEC. 95. Section 74845 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74845. The marshal may appoint:
   (a) One chief deputy marshal-office supervisor.
   (b) Four deputy marshals I I or deputy marshals I, as shall
be determined by the judges with the concurrence of the board
of supervisors, provided, however, that two additional deputy
marshals may be appointed upon the determination of the
judges with the concurrence of the board of supervisors.
   (c) Three deputy marshals—female.
    (d) One clerk II.
   Each of these employees shall receive the monthly salary
specified in Section 74847 for his classification.
   SEC. 96. Section 74846 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74846. Whenever a reference to a salary range number is
made in this article, the following schedule of monthly salaries
shall apply:
2620              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Ch. 1302
                       Salary Schedule
Salary range
  number        Step    Step 2    Step     Step 4    Step 5
 18             $376    $395      $415     $436       $458
 18*             385     405      425       447        469
 19              395     415      436       458        481
 19*             405     425      447       469        493
 20              415     436      458       481        505
 20*             425     447      469       493        517
 21              436     458      481       505        530
 21*             447     469      493       517        543
 22              458     481      505       530        556
 22*   _         469     493      517       543        570
 23              481     505      530       556        584
  23* _          493      517     543       570        598
 24              505     530      556       584        613
 24*             517     543      570       598        628
 25              530     556      584       613        644
 25*             543     570      598       628        660
 26              556     584      613       644        676
 26*             570     598      628       660        693
 27              584     613      644       676        710
 27* ____        598     628      660       693        727
 28              613     644      676       710        745
 28*             628     660      693       727        763
 29            _ 644     676      710       745        782
 29*   _         660     693      727       763        801
 30              676     710      745       782        821
 30*    _        693     727      763       801        841
 31              710     745      782       821        862
 31*             727     763      801       841        883
 32              745     782      821       862        905
 32*        _    763     801      841       883        927
 33              782     821      862       905        950
 33*     _ 801           841      883       927        974
 34      _ 821           862      905       950        998
 34*     _ 841           883      927       974      1,023
 35      _ 862           905      950       998      1,048
 35*     - 883           927      974      1,023     1,074
 36      _ 905           950      998      1,048     1,100
 36*     _ 927           974     1,023     1,074     1,127
 37      - 950           998     1,048     1,100     1,155
 37* _ _- 974          1,023     1,074     1,127     1,184
 38      - 998         1,048     1,100     1,155     1,213
 38*     - 1,023       1,074     1,127     1,184     1,243
 39      . 1,048       1,100     1,155     1,213     1,274
 39*     - 1,074       1,127     1,184     1,243     1,306
 40      . 1,100       1,155     1,213     1,274     1,338
 40*     - 1,127       1,184     1,243     1,306     1,371
 41      . 1,155       1,213     1,274     1,338     1,405
 41* _ _-- 1,184       1,243     1,306     1,371     1,440
                     1969
Ch 13021                    REGULAR SESSION                   2621

Salary range
  number     Step 1         Step 2   Step 3    Step 4     Step 5
  42         1,213          1,274    1,338     1,405       1,475
  42i        1,243          1,306    1,371     1,440       1,512
  43         1,274          1,338    1,405     1,475       1,549
  43i        1,306          1,371    1,440     1,512       1,587
  44         1,338          1,405    1,475     1,549       1,626
  44i        1,371          1,440    1,512     1,587       1,666
  45         1,405          1,475    1,549     1,626       1,707

  SEC. 97. Section 74847 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  74847. Persons employed in any of the positions authorized
by this article except the marshal shall be paid the salary
assigned to the following ranges as set forth in the salary
schedule contained in Section 74846:

  (a) Deputy clerk I                           Range 20
  (b) Deputy clerk I I                         Range 21
  (c) Senior deputy clerk                      Range 23
  (d) Chief deputy clerk                       Range 26
  (e) Clerk                                    Range 35J
  (f) Clerk I I                                Range 19
  (g) Deputy marshal—female                    Range 2 3 |
  (h) Deputy marshal I                         Range 29
  (i) Deputy marshal I I                       Range 30
  (j) Chief deputy marshal—office supervisors- Range 30J

   Each person employed in the office of the clerk and the office
of the marshal, including the clerk and the marshal, on the
effective date of the amendments to this section enacted at the
1967 Regular Session of the Legislature shall receive credit for
prior continuous service in office including service in depart-
ments superseded upon the establishment of the municipal
court, and his prior service shall be deemed service in the new
position, provided, however, that such credit shall be given only
when the judges of the court determine that the officer or em-
ployee is entitled to receive it. The clerk, deputy clerks, and
attaches of the court shall be appointed at the first step for the
range assigned to their classification, except if it is difficult to
secure qualified personnel, or if a person of unusual qualifica-
tions is hired, the judges may appoint such person at the second
step of the range assigned to that classification. In the case of
the appointment of the clerk of the municipal court, the judges
shall be authorized, if they deem it necessary, to appoint
the clerk at a higher step, not to exceed the fifth step of
the range assigned to that classification as set forth in Sec-
tion 74846, and, provided, further, that if the judges are
unable to secure a qualified person to fulfill the position of
clerk of the municipal court for a salary as hereinabove pro-
vided, then the judges with the concurrence of the board of
2622              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1302

supervisors may establish a salary at a rate not to exceed one
thousand one hundred twenty-seven dollars ($1,127) monthly.
   SEC. 97.1. Section 74904 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74904. Any judge of the Ventura County Municipal Court
sitting in any department of the court or at any session sit-
uated or held at a place other than the place designated for
holding regular sessions of the department of the court to
which he is regularly assigned shall receive from the county the
amount of the actual and necessary traveling expenses incurred
by him. Traveling expenses shall not be computed upon a
greater distance than that between the place regularly as-
signed and the place temporarily sitting. Each judge shall be
regularly assigned to a particular department by the presiding
judge for the purposes of this section. Unless and until other-
wise determined by a majority of the judges of the Ventura
County Municipal Court, with the approval of the board of
supervisors, municipal court sessions shall be held in the Cities
of Ventura, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Camarillo, Fillmore,
Santa Paula, and Ojai, and the Simi Court Facility. A ma-
jority of the judges of the Ventura County Municipal Court,
with the approval of the board of supervisors, shall designate
any additional places within the district where municipal court
sessions shall be held and shall designate the principal office
of each municipal court department.
   SEC. 97.2. Section 74905 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74905. There shall be one clerk of the Ventura County
Municipal Court, who shall be known as the court executive
officer and who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure
of a majority of the judges of the court. The court executive
officer shall receive the monthly compensation specified in
range 38.5, set forth in Section 74909. In no event shall
the classification of court executive officer be compensated
less than four scheduled ranges (approximately 10 percent)
higher than that specified for the classification of marshal of
the Ventura County Municipal Court.
   SEC. 97.3. Section 74906 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74906. There shall be one marshal of the Ventura County
Municipal Court who shall be appointed by and serve at the
pleasure of a majority of the judges of the court. The marshal
shall receive the monthly compensation specified in range
36.5, set forth in Section 74909. In no event shall the com-
pensation of the marshal be less than 10 schedule ranges (ap-
proximately 25 percent) higher than that specified for the
position of assistant marshal.
   SEC. 97.4. Section 74907 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74907. The court executive officer may appoint:
                    1969
Gh. 1302]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2623

   (a) One administrative officer I, who shall receive monthly
compensation specified in range 30.5, set forth in Section 74909.
   (b) One chief deputy clerk II, who shall receive monthly
compensation specified in rage 21.5, set forth in Section 74909.
   (c) Three chief deputy clerks I, who shall receive monthly
compensation specified in range 27.5, set forth in Section
74909.
   (d) Eight deputy clerks V, who shall receive monthly com-
pensation specified in range 23.0, set forth in Section 74909.
   (e) One senior secretary, who shall receive monthly com-
pensation specified in range 20.0, set forth in Section 74909.
   (f) One principal account clerk I, who shall receive monthly
compensation specified in range 21.5, set forth in Section 74909.
   (g) Eleven deputy clerks IV, who shall receive monthly
compensation specified in range 21.5, set forth in Section 74909.
   (h) One municipal court process clerk, who shall receive
monthly compensation specified in range 19.0, set forth in Sec-
tion 74909.
   (i) Three deputy municipal court clerk interpreters, who
shall receive monthly compensation specified in range 18.0,
set forth in Section 74909.
   (j) Thirteen deputy clerks I I I , who shall receive monthly
compensation specified in range 17.0, set forth in Section 74909.
   (k) Thirteen deputy clerks I I , who shall receive monthly
compensation specified in range 14.0, set forth in Section 74909.
   (I) Two senior deputy clerk-keypunch operators, who shall
receive monthly compensation specified in range 15.0, set forth
in Section 74909.
   (m) Three deputy clerk-keypunch operators, who shall re-
ceive monthly compensation specified in range 14.0, set forth
in Section 74909.
   SEC. 97.5. Section 74908 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74908. The Marshal of the Ventura County Municipal
Court may appoint:
   (a) One assistant marshal, who shall receive the monthly
compensation specified in range 31.5, set forth in Section 74909.
   (b) Two lieutenants, each of whom shall receive the
monthly compensation specified in range 29.0, set forth in Sec-
tion 74909.
   (c) Five sergeants, each of whom shall receive the monthly
compensation specified in range 27.0, set forth in Section 74909.
   (d) Twenty deputy marshals, each of whom shall receive
the monthly compensation specified in range 24.5, set forth in
Section 74909.
   (e) One senior secretary, who shall receive the monthly com-
pensation specified in range 20.0, set forth in Section 74909.
   (f) Six senior marshal's process clerks, each of whom shall
receive the monthly compensation specified in range 19.0, set
forth in Section 74909.


    83—1954
2624               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [0]j_ ^ Q g

     (g) Five marshal's process clerks, each of whom shall receive
 the monthly compensation specified in range 17.0, set forth in
  Section 74909. Marshal's process clerk trainees at a flat monthly
 rate of three hundred eighty-four dollars ($384) may be ap-
 pointed in lieu of marshal's process clerks until such trainees
 have satisfactorily completed a six-month training period.
     (h) Such deputies who shall be keepers as may be reason-
 ably required pursuant to law, at the fee allowed by law for
 keeping property.
     The occupants of positions listed in subsections e, f, and g
 of this section shall, when required, be assigned to additional
 duties as matron, and during the period of such assignment
 shall receive no additional compensation.
    SEC. 97.6. Section 74912 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    74912. (a) Certain classifications in the Ventura County
 Municipal Court are deemed to be equivalent in position re-
 sponsibility and salary level to certain classifications in the
 service of Ventura County and whenever the salary of an
 equivalent classification in the Ventura County service is ad-
 justed by the board of supervisors, the salary of the equivalent
 classification in the Ventura County Municipal Court shall be
 adjusted an equivalent amount. Such adjustments shall be
 effective on the same date as the effective date of the action by
 the board of supervisors as it applies to classifications in the
 Ventura County service, but such adjustments shall be effective
 no longer than 90 days after the final adjournment of the next
 regular session of the Legislature. The intent of this section
 shall not be construed to mean that any salary adjustments
 made in 1969 will be forfeited on the effective date of this
 section.
    (b) The class of deputy municipal court clerk I I is equiva-
lent to intermediate typist-clerk in the Ventura County service.
 The classes of deputy municipal court clerk III, and marshal's
process clerk are equivalent to senior typist-clerk in the Ven-
 tura County service. The classes of senior marshal's process
clerk and municipal court process clerk are equivalent to legal
process clerk in the Ventura County service. The class of dep-
uty clerk-keypunch operator is equivalent to keypunch oper-
ator in the Ventura County service. The class of senior deputy
clerk-keypunch operator is equivalent to senior keypunch oper-
ator in the Ventura County service. The class of senior secre-
tary is equivalent to senior secretary in the Ventura County
service. The class of principal account clerk I is equivalent in
position responsibility and salary level to the class of principal
account clerk I in Ventura County service. The class of deputy
municipal court clerk IV is equivalent to superior court clerk.
The class of deputy marshal is equivalent to deputy sheriff.
The class of marshal's sergeant is equivalent to sheriff's ser-
geant. The class of marshal's lieutenant is equivalent to sher-
iff's lieutenant. The class of assistant marshal is equivalent to
                     1989
Ch. 1302]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2625

sheriff's captain. The class of administrative officer I is equiva-
lent to administrative officer I in the Ventura County service.
   (c) Whenever the salary of the class of deputy municipal
court clerk I I is adjusted as described above, the salaries of
the classes of deputy clerk interpreter, chief deputy clerk, and
chief deputy clerk I I shall be adjusted an equivalent number of
ranges or steps on the salary schedule.
   SEC. 97.7. Section 74922 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74922. There shall be one clerk who shall receive the salary
specified in range No. 31.
   SEC. 97.8. Section 74923 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74923. The clerk may appoint one assistant clerk who shall
receive the salary specified in range No. 27, two senior clerks
who shall receive the salary specified in range No. 21, and five
intermediate clerk-typists who shall receive the salary specified
in range No. 19.
   SEC. 97.9. Section 74924 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74924. There shall be one marshal who shall receive the
salary specified in range No. 31.
   SEC. 97.10. Section 74925 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   74925. The marshal may appoint one deputy marshal who
shall receive the salary specified in range No. 26.5, and one
intermediate clerk-typist who shall receive the salary specified
in range No. 19 and who shall serve as clerk to the marshal.
   SEC. 98. Article 37 (commencing with Section 74934) is
 added to Chapter 10, Title 8 of the Government Code, to read:

                       Article 37.   Chico
   74934. This article applies to the municipal court estab-
lished in the Chico Judicial District of Butte County.
   74935. There shall be one judge.
   74936. There shall be one clerk who shall receive the salary
specified in range No. 18.
   74937. The clerk may appoint two steno-clerks I I who
shall be deputy clerks and shall receive the salary specified in
range 12, and three clerks I I , who shall also be deputy clerks
and shall receive the salary specified in range 8. Additional
deputy clerks may be appointed as are required, with the con-
sent of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte, and
shall receive the salary specified in range 8.
   74938. There shall be one marshal who shall receive the
salary specified in range 28.
   74939. The marshal may appoint one deputy marshal who
shall receive the salary specified in range No. 22 and one steno-
clerk I I who shall receive the salary specified in range 12, and
who shall serve as clerk to the marshal. With the consent of
2626              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1302

the Board of Supervisors of Butte County, the marshal may
appoint additional deputies as is required, which additional
deputies shall receive the salary specified in range 22.
   74940. Whenever reference is made to a range in any sec-
tion of this article, the following schedule of monthly salaries
shall apply:

  No.             1         2          3         4          5
   8            $372      $393       $414      $438       $463
   9             383       404        426       451        475
  10             393       414        438       463        487
  11             404       426        451       475        501
  12             414       438        463       487        514
  13             426       451        475       501        529
  14             438       463        487       514        543
  15             451       475        501       529        559
  16             463       487        514       543        574
  17             475       501        529       559        591
  18             487       514        543       574        608
  19             501       529        559       591        625
  20             514       543        574       608        642
  21             529       559        591       625        660
  22             543       574        608       642        677
  23             559       591        625       660        697
  24             574       608        642       677        716
  25             591       625        660       697        736
  26             608       642        677       716        756
  27             625       660        697       736        778
  28             642       677        716       756        799
  29             660       697        736       778        821
  30             677       716        756       799        842
   74941. Subject to the provisions of Section 72001, the
compensation of officers and attaches shall be governed as
follows:
   (a) The initial hiring rate for each position shall normally
be at step 1. If it is difficult to secure qualified personnel at
such rate, or if a person of unusual qualifications is hired, the
appointing authority, with the approval of the Board of Su-
pervisors of the County of Butte, may employ such person
at one of the higher salary steps provided for the position.
   (b) A step advancement from step 1 to step 2 of a position
shall be granted on the first day of the month following the
completion of six full months of service in the position. A
person shall advance to steps 3, 4 and 5 upon completion of
successive 12-month periods of service in the same position.
   (c) The salaries of municipal court officers and attaches
may, upon recommendation by the appointing authority and
approval of the board of supervisors, be increased or de-
creased within the limits set forth in Section 74926 in order
to provide compensation which is comparable to compensation
                     1969
Ch. 1303]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2627

received by county employees of similar qualifications and ex-
perience and holding equal or comparable positions, as said
comparability is determined by the board of supervisors.
   (d) Certain classifications in the Chico Municipal Court
are deemed to be equivalent or related in responsibility and
salary level to certain classifications in the service of Butte
County and whenever the salary of a classification in the
service of Butte County is adjusted by the board of super-
visors, the salary of equivalent classifications and related clas-
sifications in the Chico Municipal Court shall be adjusted an
equal number of ranges on the currently effective salary sched-
ule established by county ordinance. Such adjustments shall be
effective on the same date as the effective date of the action
by the board of supervisors as it applies to classifications in
the county service, but such adjustments shall be effective no
longer than 90 days after the final adjournment of the next
regular session of the Legislature.
   All class relationships shall be based on salary schedule
range assignments effective May 1,1968.
   The equivalent or related classifications are as follows:
  Municipal court classification         County classification
  Clerk, municipal court                      Principal clerk
  Steno-clerk I I                              Steno-clerk I I
  Clerk I I                                          Clerk I I
  Marshal                                             Marshal
  Deputy marshal                            Deputy marshal

   (e) The marshal and his deputies have previously been on
a fiat salary in the now superseded justice court, and they shall
commence their duties as marshal and deputy marshal in
step 1 of their respective ranges.
   74942. The officers and attaches of the municipal court
shall be entitled to the same vacation, sick leave and similar
benefits and privileges as are granted to other employees of
the County of Butte by the salary ordinance of said county.
   74943. All fees collected by the marshal or his deputies
shall be deposited with the county treasurer.
   74944. All officers and attaches of the court shall devote
their full time to the performance of their duties.
   74945. All matters affecting the employment of such offi-
cers and attaches which are not specifically determined by this
article or other provision of state law shall be governed and
regulated by the then current salary ordinance of the County
of Butte.
2628              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      r Q f l J3Q3

                        CHAPTER 1303
An act to amend Section 6553 of the Government Code, re-
  lating to contents of bond indentures, and declaring the
  urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 6553 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    6553. The indenture authorizing the issuance of such bonds
 shall recite the objects and purposes for which the bonds are
 to be issued, which may include any or all of the purposes
 stated in this article and which shall comprise the project, the
 principal amount of the bonds, the maximum rate of interest
 to be payable thereon which shall not exceed 7 percent per
 annum, payable semiannually, except that interest for the first
year may be made payable at the end of said year, the date
 or dates of issue of said bonds, the maturity date or dates
 thereof, and the fund or funds from which said bonds and
 the interest thereon and premiums upon the redemption of
 any thereof are to be payable, and such other provisions
 authorized by this article as the governing body of the entity
 deems necessary or desirable. Said bonds shall be issued
in negotiable form and shall be negotiable. The recitals
of regularity of proceedings in any revenue bond issued and
sold under this article shall be conclusive evidence of compli-
 ance with the provisions of this article and of the validity of
such bond. Said bonds may be issued and sold to the "United
States of America, or the State of California, or to any appro-
priate department or agency thereof, to provide a source for
the payment of principal and interest on any loan made by
the United States of America, or the State of California, or
agency thereof, to any agency created by an agreement entered
into pursuant to this chapter.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
   An increase in the permissible interest rates on joint powers
authority revenue bonds from 6 percent to 7 percent is neces-
sary in order to permit such bonds to be sold under present
bond market conditions. Funds from such revenue bonds are
needed to ensure the construction of various facilities urgently
needed for public use, especially law enforcement facilities,
medical facilities and recreational developments. As proceeds
from such revenue bonds must be in hand before construction
can begin, and since such construction must commence at the
earliest possible time, it is necessary that this act go into
immediate effect.
                      1969
Ch 13051                     REGULAK SESSION                   2629

                         CHAPTEE 1304
An act to amend Section 5681 of the Business and Professions
            Code, relating to landscape architects.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 5681 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read :
   5681. The amount of fees prescribed by this chapter is that
fixed by the following schedule:
    (a) The application fee for examination shall be fixed by
the board in such amount as it determines is reasonably nec-
essary to provide sufficient funds to carry out the purpose of
this chapter, but not to exceed fifty dollars ($50).
    (b) The fee for an original certificate is an amount equal
to the renewal fee in effect on the last regular renewal date
before the date on which the certificate is issued, except that,
if the certificate is issued less than one year before the date on
which it will expire, then the fee is an amount equal to 50 per-
cent of the renewal fee in effect on the last regular renewal
date before the date on which the certificate is issued. The
board may, by appropriate regtilation, provide for the waiver
or refund of the initial certificate fee where the certificate is
issued less than 45 days before the date on which it will expire.
    (c) The fee for a temporary certificate is twenty-five dol-
lars ($25).
    (d) The fee for a duplicate certificate is five dollars ($5).
    (e) The renewal fee shall be fixed by the board in such
amount as it determines is reasonably necessary to provide
 sufficient funds to carry out the purpose of this chapter, but
not to exceed seventy-five dollars ($75).
    (f) The penalty for failure to notify the board of a change
 of address is five dollars ($5).
    (g) The delinquency fee is ten dollars ($10).


                             CHAPTEE 1305
An act to add Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 29500)
  to Title 4 of the Corporations Code, relating to commodity
  advisers.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary oj State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 29500)
is added to Title 4 of the Corporations Code, to read:
2630               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           _   TQ^   J3Q5

         DIVISION 4.5.      COMMODITY ADVISEES
                    CHAPTER 1.    DEFINITIONS

   29500. This division shall be known and may be cited as the
 Commodity Advisers Law.
   The definitions set forth in this chapter govern the construc-
tion of this division.
   29501. "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Cor-
porations.
   29502. "Commodity" means anything movable that is
bought and sold upon the basis of the public market quotations
of prices made on any board of trade or exchange upon which
commodities are dealt in, or on the basis of futures contracts.
   29503. "Commodity adviser" means any person who, for
compensation, engages in the business of advising others, either
 directly or through publications or writings, as to the value of
commodities or as to the advisability of investing in, purchas-
ing or selling commodities, or who, for compensation and as a
part of a regular business, publishes, analyzes or reports con-
cerning commodities. '' Commodity adviser'' does not include:
 (a) a bank, trust company or savings and loan association; (b)
an attorney at law, accountant, engineer or teacher whose per-
formance of these services is solely incidental to the practice of
his profession; (c) a person licensed as a broker-dealer under
the Corporate Securities Law of 1968, Division 1 (commenc-
ing with Section 25000) of this title, whose performance of
these services is solely incidental to the conduct of his business
as a broker-dealer and who receives no special compensation
for them; or (d) a publisher of any bona fide newspaper,
news magazine or business or financial publication of gen-
eral, regular and paid circulation and the agents and serv-
ants thereof, but this subdivision (d) does not exclude any
such person who engages in any other activity which would
constitute him a commodity adviser within the meaning of
this section.

       CHAPTER 2.    LICENSING OP COMMODITY ADVISERS

   29510. I t is unlawful for any commodity adviser to conduct
his business as a commodity adviser in this state unless he has
first applied for and secured from the commissioner a certifi-
cate, then in effect, authorizing him to do so or unless he is
exempted by the provisions of Sections 29511 through 29514.
   29511. An investment adviser licensed under Chapter 3
 (commencing with Section 25230) of Part 3 of Division 1 of
Title 4 of this code, shall be exempted from the provisions of
Section 29510, but shall be subject to all other provisions of
this division.
   29512. A person registered under the Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 who has not previously had any certificate denied
or revoked under such law or any predecessor statute, shall be
exempted from the provisions of Section 29510 if he has no
                    1969
Ch. 13051                  REGULAR SESSION                 2631

place of business in this state and (a) his only clients in this
state are investment or commodity advisers, broker-dealers,
banks, savings and loan associations, trust companies, insur-
ance companies, investment companies registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, pension or profit-sharing
trusts, or other institutional investors or governmental agen-
cies or instrumentalities designated by rule of the commis-
sioner, or (b) during any period of 12 consecutive months he
does not direct business communications into this state in any
manner to more than five clients other than those specified in
clause (a) above, whether or not he or any of the persons
to whom the communications are directed is then present in
this state.
    29513. A person whose only clients are investment com-
panies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940
or insurance companies or both shall be exempted from the
provisions of Section 29510.
    29514. The commissioner may by such rules as he deems
necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the pro-
tection of investors, either unconditionally or upon specified
terms and conditions or for specified periods, exempt from the
provisions of Section 29510 any class of persons specified in
such rules.
    29515. Any adviser, or any person who contemplates be-
coming a commodity adviser, may apply for a certificate to act
as such by filing with the commissioner an application. Such
application shall be accompanied by the consent to service of
process specified in Section 29516 and the fee for filing an ap-
plication specified in Section 29551, and shall contain such in-
formation, in such form and detail, as the commissioner may
by rule prescribe.
    29516. Every applicant for a certificate as a commodity ad-
viser (other than a California corporation) shall file with the
 commissioner, in such form as he, by rule, prescribes, an
 irrevocable consent appointing the commissioner or his suc-
 cessor in office to be his attorney to receive service of any
 lawful process in any noncriminal suit, action or proceeding
 against him or his successor, executor, or administrator, which
 arises under this law or any rule or order hereunder after the
 consent has been filed, with the same force and validity as if
 served personally on the person filing the consent. A person
 who has filed such consent in connection with a previous appli-
 cation under this division need not file another. Service may
 be made by leaving a copy of the process in the office of the
  commissioner, but it is not effective unless (a) the plaintiff,
 who may be the commissioner in a suit, action or proceeding
 instituted by him, forthwith sends notice of the service and
  a copy of the process by registered or certified mail to the
  defendant or respondent at his last address on file with the
  commissioner, and (b) the plaintiff's affidavit of compliance
  with this section is filed in the case on or before the return
2632              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Qfo^ J3Q5

day of the process, if any, or within such further time as the
court allows.
   29517. (a) No commodity adviser licensed under this divi-
sion shall conduct any business as such commodity adviser in
this state unless the commodity adviser and all natural per-
sons associated with such commodity adviser meet such speci-
fied and appropriate standards with respect to training, ex-
perience and other qualifications as the commissioner finds
necessary or desirable. The commissioner may establish such
standards by rule, which may
   (1) Appropriately classify commodity advisers and persons
associated with commodity advisers;
   (2) Specify that all or any portion of such standards shall
be applicable to any such class; and
   (3) Eequire persons in any such class to pass examinations
prescribed in accordance with such rules.
   (b) The commissioner may prescribe by rule reasonable
fees and charges to defray the costs of carrying out this sec-
tion, including, but not limited to, fees for any examination
administered by him or under his direction.

              CHAPTER 3.    PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES

   29525. (a) No commodity adviser shall in this state enter
into, extend or renew any commodity advisory contract, or in
any way perform any commodity advisory contract entered
into, extended or renewed on or after the effective date of this
division, if such contract:
   (1) Provides for compensation to the commodity adviser on
the basis of a share of capital gains upon or capital apprecia-
tion of the funds or any portion of the funds of the client,
except as may be permitted by rule of the commissioner;
   (2) Fails to provide, in substance, that no assignment of
such contract shall be made by the commodity adviser without
the consent of the other party to the contract; or
   (3) Fails to provide, in substance, that the commodity ad-
viser, if a partnership, will notify the other party to the con-
tract of any change in the membership of such partnership
within a reasonable time after such change.
   (b) As used in this section, "commodity advisory contract"
means any contract or agreement whereby a person agrees to
act as a commodity adviser or to manage a commodity, or
trading account for a person other than an investment com-
pany. Paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of this section does
not prohibit a commodity advisory contract which provides
for compensation based upon the total value of a fund aver-
aged over a definite period, or as of definite dates, or taken as
of a definite date.
   29526. I t is unlawful for any commodity adviser, directly
or indirectly, in this state:
                    1969
Ch. 1305]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2633

   (a) To employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud
any client or prospective client.
   (b) To engage in any transaction, practice, or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon any client or prospective client.
   (c) Acting as principal for his own account, knowingly to
sell any commodity to or purchase any commodity from a
client for whom he is acting as commodity adviser, or, acting
as broker for a person other than such client, knowingly to
effect any sale or purchase of any commodity for the account
of such client, without disclosing to such client in writing
before the completion of the transaction the capacity in which
he is acting and obtaining the written consent of the client
to such transaction.
   (d) To engage in any act, practice, or course of business
which is fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative. The commis-
sioner shall, for the purpose of this subdivision, by rule define
and prescribe means reasonably designed to prevent such acts,
practices, and courses of business as are fraudulent, decep-
tive or manipulative.
   (e) To represent that he is a commodity counsel or to use
the name "commodity counsel" as descriptive of his business
unless his principal business consists of acting as commodity
adviser and a substantial part of his business consists of ren-
dering commodity advisory services on the basis of the in-
dividual needs of his clients.
   29527. It is unlawful for any person holding a certificate
as a commodity adviser under this division to represent or
imply in any manner whatsoever that such person has been
sponsored, recommended, or approved or that his abilities or
qualifications have in any respect been passed upon by the
commissioner. Nothing in this section prohibits a statement
 (other than in a paid advertisement) that a person holds a
certificate under this division, if such statement is true in fact
and if the effect of such licensing is not misrepresented.
   29528. It is unlawful for any person willfully to make any
untrue statement of a material fact in any application or
report filed with the commissioner under this division, or will-
 fully to omit to state in any such application or report any
material fact which is required to be stated therein.

      CHAPTER 4.     REGULATION OF COMMODITY ADVISERS

  29535. Every commodity adviser shall make and keep such
accounts, correspondence, memoranda, papers, books, and other
records and shall file such financial and other reports as the
commissioner by rule requires. All records so required shall
be preserved for the time specified in the rule. All records
referred to in this section are subject at any time and from
time to time to such reasonable periodic, special, or other ex-
aminations by the commissioner, within or without this state,
2634               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo^ J3Q5

as the commissioner deems necessary or appropriate in the
public interest or for the protection of investors. For the pur-
pose of avoiding unnecessary duplications of examinations,
the commissioner, insofar as he deems it practicable in ad-
ministering this section, may cooperate with the securities
administrators of other states, any federal agency regulating
or concerned with commodity trading, or any national com-
modity exchange.
   29536. The commissioner may from time to time make,
amend and rescind such rules, forms, and orders as are neces-
sary to carry out the provisions of this division, including rules
and forms governing applications and reports, and denning
any terms, whether or not used in this division, insofar as the
definitions are not inconsistent with the provisions of this di-
vision. For the purpose of rules and forms, the commissioner
may classify commodities, persons, and matters within his ju-
risdiction, and may prescribe different requirements for
different classes. The commissioner may in his discretion waive
any requirement of any rule or form in situations where in his
opinion such requirement is not necessary in the public in-
terest or for the protection of investors.
   29537. The commissioner shall prescribe such rules with
respect to commodity advisers who have custody of their cli-
ents' commodity contracts or funds or who have any power of
attorney from their clients to execute transactions as he finds
to be necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for
the protection of investors. Such rules may require a mini-
mum capital for such investment advisers or prescribe a mini-
mum ratio between net capital and aggregate indebtedness or
both, and may require a surety bond in an amount not exceed-
ing ten thousand dollars ($10,000), conditioned upon compli-
ance by the commodity adviser with the provisions of this
division and the rules and orders issued under this division.
Such bond, unless previously canceled, shall apply to the en-
tire period that the adviser's license is in effect. Any appro-
priate deposit of cash or securities shall be accepted in lieu of
any such bond. Every bond shall provide that no suit may be
maintained to enforce any liability thereon unless brought
within two years after the contract of sale or other act upon
which such suit is based, and shall also provide that the liabil-
ity of the surety on such bond to all persons aggrieved shall, in
no event, exceed in the aggregate the amount thereof. Every
such bond shall also contain a provision authorizing the surety
thereon to cancel it upon 30 days' written notice to the licensee
and to the commissioner; provided, however, that such cancella-
tion shall not affect any liability incurred or accrued prior to
the effective date of such cancellation.
   29538. The commissioner may, after appropriate notice and
opportunity for hearing, by order censure, deny a certificate to,
or suspend for a period not exceeding 12 months or revoke
the certificate of, a commodity adviser, if he finds that such
                    1969
Ch. 1305]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2635

censure, denial, suspension, or revocation is in the public in-
terest and that such commodity adviser, whether prior or sub-
sequent to becoming such, or any partner, officer or director
thereof or any person performing similar functions or any
person directly or indirectly controlling such commodity ad-
viser, whether prior or subsequent to becoming such, or any em-
ployee of such commodity adviser while so employed:
    (a) Has willfully made or caused to be made in any appli-
cation for a certificate or any report filed with the commissioner
under this division, or in any proceeding before the commis-
sioner, any statement which was at the time and in the light
of the circumstances under which it was made false or mis-
leading with respect to any material fact, or has willfully
omitted to state in any such application or report any material
fact which is required to be stated therein; or
    (b) Has (1) been convicted of or has plead nolo conten-
dere to any felony or misdemeanor, or (2) has been held liable
in a civil action by final judgment of a court based upon con-
duct showing moral turpitude, and the commissioner finds that
any such felony, misdemeanor or civil action (i) involved the
purchase or sale of any commodity or security, (ii) arose out
of the conduct of the business of a broker-dealer, commodity
adviser or investment adviser, (iii) involved embezzlement,
fraudulent conversion, or misappropriation of property, funds
or securities, or (iv) involved the violation of Section 1341,
1342 or 1343 of Title 18 of the United States Code, or (v)
involved an act of fraud or dishonesty; or
    (c) Is permanently or temporarily enjoined by order, judg-
ment, or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction from
acting as a commodity adviser, an investment adviser, an
underwriter or broker-dealer or as an affiliated person or em-
ployee of an investment company, bank, or insurance company,
or from engaging in or continuing any conduct or practice in
connection with any such activity, or in connection with the
purchase or sale of any security; or
    (d) Is subject to any currently effective order of the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission or the securities administra-
tor of any other state revoking or suspending his registration
as a commodity adviser, an investment adviser or as a broker
or dealer or is subject to any currently effective order of
any national securities association or national securities ex-
change (as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934)
suspending or expelling him from membership in such associa-
tion or exchange; or
    (e) Has willfully violated any provision of the Commodity
 Exchange Act, Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange
 Act of 1934, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Invest-
 ment Company Act of 1940, or Title 4 (commencing with Sec-
 tion 25000) of this code, or of any rule or regulation under
 any of such statutes; or
2636              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               mjj   J3Q5

   (f) Has aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or
procured the violation by any other person of any statute
or rule or regulation referred to in subdivision (e) ; or
    (g) Has willfully violated any provision of this division or
rule or regulation promulgated under this division.
   29539. No order may be entered under Section 29538 ex-
cept after notice to the person affected thereby of the in-
tention of the commissioner to enter such order and of the
reasons therefor and that upon receipt of a request the matter
will be set down for hearing to commence within 15 days after
such receipt unless the person affected consents to a later date.
If no hearing is requested within 30 days after the mailing of
such notice and none is ordered by the commissioner, the
order may be entered without hearing to remain in effect until
it is modified or vacated by the commissioner. In the case of
an original application for a certificate, such a hearing must
be set down to commence within 15 days after receipt of a
written request by the applicant made 30 days or more after
the filing of the application, even though no such notice by the
commissioner has been given, unless the applicant consents to
a later date. If a hearing is requested or ordered, it shall be
held in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative
Procedure Act (Chapter 5, commencing with Section 11500,
Part 1, Division 3, Title 2 of the Government Code), and the
commissioner shall have all of the powers granted under that
act.
   29540. Any person whose certificate as a commodity ad-
viser has been suspended or revoked shall immediately sur-
render such certificate to the commissioner.
   29541. (a) Surrender of a certificate as a commodity ad-
viser becomes effective 30 days after receipt of an application
to surrender such certificate or within such shorter period of
time as the commissioner may determine, unless a revocation
or suspension proceeding is pending when the application is
filed or a proceeding to revoke or suspend or to impose con-
ditions upon the withdrawal is instituted within 30 days after
the application is filed. If such a proceeding is pending or in-
stituted, withdrawal becomes effective at such times and upon
such conditions as the commissioner by order determines.
    (b) If the commissioner finds that any commodity adviser
is no longer in existence, or has ceased to do business as a com-
modity adviser, or is subject to an adjudication of mental
incompetence or to the control of a committee or conservator
or guardian, or cannot be located after reasonable search, the
commissioner may by order summarily revoke the certificate of
such commodity adviser.
    (c) The commissioner may summarily suspend or revoke the
certificate of a commodity adviser if he (1) fails to pay any
fee required by Section 29551 or imposed pursuant to Section
29552 within 10 days after notice by the commissioner that
such fee is due and unpaid, or (2) fails to file any report
                     1969
Ch. 13051                   REGULAR SESSION                 2637

required under Section 29535 within 10 days after notice by
the commissioner that such report is due, or (3) fails to main-
tain any bond required by Section 29537.
   29542. Every final order, decision, license, or other official
act of the commissioner is subject to judicial review in accord-
ance with law.
                       CHAPTER 5.    FEES

   29550. The commissioner shall charge and collect the fees
fixed or authorized by this chapter. All such fees shall be
transmitted to the State Treasurer, and shall be credited to
the General Fund.
   29551. The fee for filing an application for a certificate to
act as a commodity adviser under Section 29515 is one hun-
dred dollars ($100). Thereafter, every commodity adviser who
has secured from the commissioner a certificate shall, in order
to keep such certificate in effect, pay for each calendar year
following the calendar year in which such certificate was se-
cured, an annual renewal fee of one hundred dollars ($100)
on or before the 15th day of December of the year preceding
the calendar year for which such fee is payable.
   29552. A fee shall be charged and collected for any exami-
nation, audit, or investigation made pursuant to this division
equal to the actual amount of the salary or other compensa-
tion paid to the persons making the examination, audit, or in-
vestigation plus the actual amount of expenses reasonably in-
curred in the performance of the work.

        CHAPTER 6.      POWERS OP THE COMMISSIONER

   29560. Whenever it appears to the commissioner that any
person has engaged or is about to engage in any act or prac-
tice constituting a violation of any provision of this law or
any rule or order hereunder, he may in his discretion bring an
action in the name of the people of the State of California in
the superior court to enjoin the acts or practices or to enforce
compliance with this law or any rule or order hereunder. Upon
a proper showing a permanent or preliminary injunction,
restraining order, or writ of mandate shall be granted and a
receiver or conservator may be appointed for the defendant or
the defendant's assets. The court may not require the commis-
sioner to post a bond.
   29561. (a) The commissioner in his discretion (1) may
make such public or private investigations within or outside
of this state as he deems necessary to determine whether any
person has violated or is about to violate any provision of this
law or any rule or order hereunder or to aid in the enforce-
ment of this law or in the prescribing of rules and forms here-
under, and (2) may publish information concerning any vio-
lation of this law or any rule or order hereunder.
    (b) In making any investigation authorized by subdivision
 (a) of this section, the commissioner may, for a reasonable
2638             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQ n _ J3Q5

time not exceeding 30 days, take possession of the books,
records, accounts and other papers pertaining to the business
of any commodity adviser and place a keeper in exclusive
charge of them in the place where they are usually kept. Dur-
ing such possession no person shall remove or attempt to re-
move any of the books, records, accounts, or other papers
except pursuant to a court order or with the consent of the
commissioner; but the directors, officers, partners, and em-
ployees of the commodity adviser may examine them, and
employees shall be permitted to make entries therein reflecting
current transactions.
   (c) For the purpose of any investigation or proceeding un-
der this law, the commissioner or any officer designated by him
may administer oaths and affirmations, subpoena witnesses,
compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the pro-
duction of any books, papers, correspondence, memoranda,
agreements, or other documents or records which the commis-
sioner deems relevant or material to the inquiry.
   (d) In case of contumacy by, or refusal to obey a subpoena
issued to, any person, the superior court, upon application by
the commissioner, may issue to the person an order requiring
him to appear before the commissioner, or the officer desig-
nated by him, there to produce documentary evidence, if so
ordered, or to give evidence touching the matter under in-
vestigation or in question. Failure to obey the order of the
court may be punished by the court as a contempt.
   (e) No person is excused from attending and testifying or
from producing any document or record before the commis-
sioner, or in obedience to the subpoena of the commissioner
or any officer designated by him, or in any proceeding insti-
tuted by the commissioner, on the ground that the testimony
or evidence (documentary or otherwise) required of him may
tend to incriminate him or subject him to a penalty or for-
feiture; but no individual may be prosecuted or subjected to
any penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any transac-
tion, matter, or thing concerning which he is compelled, after
validly claiming his privilege against self-incrimination, to
testify or produce evidence (documentary or otherwise), ex-
cept that the individual testifying is not exempt from prosecu-
tion and punishment for perjury or contempt committed in
testifying.
   29562. The commissioner may refer such evidence as is
available concerning any violation of this law or of any rule
or order hereunder to the district attorney of the county in
which the violation occurred, who may, with or without such
a reference, institute appropriate criminal proceedings under
this law.
                     CHAPTER 7.    CRIMES

   29570. Any person who willfully violates any provision of
this division, or who willfully violates any rule or order un-
                        1969
Ch. 1306]                      REGULAR SESSION                  2639

der this division, shall upon conviction be fined not more than
ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or imprisoned in the state
prison for not more than 10 years or in a county jail for not
more than one year, or be punished by both such fine and
imprisonment; but no person may be imprisoned for the vio-
lation of any rule or order if he proves that he had no
knowledge of the rule or order.
   29571. Nothing in this division limits the power of the
state to punish any person for any conduct which constitutes
a crime under any other statute.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative on January 2, 1970.


                           CHAPTBE 1306
An act to amend Section 1616 of, and to add Section 1608.7 to,
  the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to property tax
  assessments.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1608.7 is added to the Revenue and
Taxation Code, to read:
   1608.7. (a) At the time of filing the application or at any
time prior to 20 days before the hearing on the application,
any applicant for a change of an assessment on the local roll
may cause an exchange of information between himself and
the assessor by submitting the following data to the assessor in
writing:
   (1) Information stating the basis of the applicant's opinion
of value.
   (2) When the application is to be supported with evidence
of comparable sales, information identifying the properties
with sufficient certainty such as by assessor parcel number,
street address or legal description of the property, the ap-
proximate date of sale, the applicable zoning, the price paid,
and the terms of the sale, if known.
   (3) When the application is to be supported with evidence
based on an income study, information relating to income,
expenses and the capitalization method.
   (4) When the application is to be supported with evidence
of replacement cost, information relating to date of construc-
tion, type of construction, replacement cost of construction,
obsolescence, allowance for extraordinary use of machinery and
equipment, and depreciation allowances.
   (b) If an applicant for a change of an assessment has sub-
mitted the data required by subdivision (a) within the speci-
fied time, at least 10 days prior to the hearing the assessor
shall submit to the applicant in writing the following data;
2640              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              r Q ^ 2306

   (1) Information stating the basis of the assessor's opinion
of value.
   (2) When the value is to be supported with evidence of
comparable sales, information identifying the properties with
sufficient certainty such as by assessor parcel number, street
address or legal description of the property, the approximate
date of sale, the applicable zoning, the price paid, and the
terms of the sale, if known.
    (3) When the value is to be supported with evidence based
on an income study, information relating to income, expenses
and the capitalization method.
    (4) When the value is to be supported with evidence of re-
placement cost, information relating to date of construction,
type of construction, replacement cost of construction, obso-
lescence, allowance for extraordinary use of machinery and
equipment, and depreciation allowances.
   The person assigning a hearing date shall provide adequate
notice to the parties of such date, so that the exchange of in-
formation permitted by this section can be made without re-
quiring a continuance of the hearing.
   Whenever information has been exchanged pursuant to this
section the parties may not introduce evidence on matters not
so exchanged unless the other party consents to such introduc-
tion. However, at the hearing, each party may introduce new
material relating to the information received from the other
 party. If a party introduces new material at the hearing, the
other party, upon his request, shall be granted a continuance
for a reasonable period of time.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as an intent of
the Legislature to change, alter or modify generally acceptable
methods of using the sales approach, income approach, or re-
placement cost approach to determine full cash value.
   SEC. 2. Section 1616 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
    1616. (a) If a county board changes the value on a parcel
of real property other than by acceptance of an uncontested
stipulation, and, during the succeeding two assessment years,
the party affected seeks to change the value set by the board
or the assessor seeks to raise the value as lowered by the board
or to lower the value as raised by the board, the value of the
property shall be rebuttably presumed to be the value set by
the board. The party seeking such a change in value shall
give written notice of the proposed full cash value and assessed
value to the other party and the matter shall automatically be
placed before the board, unless such other party files a written
 statement with the board that he does not want to contest the
matter and in that event the matter will not be placed before
the county board.
    (b) If during such succeeding two assessment years, the
board, other than by the acceptance of an uncontested stipula-
tion, changes the value previously set by the board on that
                       l969
Ch. 1307]                     REGULAR. SESSION                      2641

parcel, the previously set value shall be deemed rebutted and
the new value set by the board shall be rebuttably presumed
to be the value of that parcel during the next succeeding two
assessment years.
   (c) A presumption created under this section shall cease to
exist upon a subsequent addition of trade fixtures required to
be reported under Section 452, a subsequent change in zoning
of a parcel of real property, a change of assessed value due
to an intercounty equalization order issued by the State Board
of Equalization or a subsequent increase or decrease in the
physical size of a building for which a building permit has
been issued. If any of the conditions described in this subdivi-
sion occur, the matter shall not be automatically placed before
the board.
   (d) When any matter is placed before the board pursuant
to this section, the clerk shall notify the party affected of the
time and place of hearing in the same manner as notice is
given for application for changes of assessments. If the party
affected or his agent does not appear or has not made timely
request for continuance, the matter shall be heard by the board
and the assessor shall present his evidence notwithstanding the
failure of the party affected or his agent to appear or to re-
quest a continuance.
   This section shall not apply to buildings under initial con-
struction.
   SEC. 3. Sections 1 and 2 of this act shall be applicable to
assessments made on or after the lien date in 1970.


                           CHAPTER 1307

     An act to amend Section 8701 of the Education              Code,
               relating to courses of instruction.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8701 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   8701. "Whenever any part of the instruction in " h e a l t h , "
family life education, and sex education conflicts with the re-
ligious training and beliefs of the parent or guardian of any
pupil, the pupil, on written request of the parent or guardian,
shall be excused from the part of the training which conflicts
with such religious training and beliefs.
   As used in this section, "religious training and beliefs"
includes personal moral convictions.
2642               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     r ^   13Q£

                         CHAPTER 1308
  An act to add Sections 1046 and 13712.1 to the Education
                  Code, relating to schools.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 1046 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   1046. The governing board of any school district shall meet
with appropriate local government recreation and park au-
thorities to review all possible methods of coordinating plan-
ning, design, and construction of new school facilities and
school sites or major additions to existing school facilities and
recreation and park facilities in the community. Any school
district planning, designing, or constructing new school facili-
ties and school sites or major additions to existing school
facilities shall file, at least annually, a report with the De-
partment of Education setting forth its plans to achieve (a)
a greater use of any joint or contiguous recreation and park
facilities by the schoolchildren and (b) possible use by the
total community of such school facilities and school sites and
recreation and park facilities.
   SEC. 2. Section 13712.1 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   13712.1. Nothing contained in Section 13712 shall be inter-
preted to exclude the employment of architectural and engi-
neering firms employed on a temporary basis for a specific
project by a governing board or the commission when so desig-
nated by the commission.
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall remain in effect until
the first day of the 1971 Regular Session of the Legislature,
and shall have no force or effect after that date.


                         CHAPTER 1309
An act to amend Section 12025.5 of, and to repeal and add
  Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 12601), Division 5 of,
  the Business and Professions Code, relating to the labeling
  of containers.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 12025.5 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
  12025.5. Whenever any commodity or any container is or-
dered off sale under the provisions of Section 12211 or Sec-
                    1969
Ch. 1309]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2643

tion 12607 of this division, the sealer shall cause the com-
modity or container affected by such off-sale order to be
identified by a tag or other suitable device with the words
"off sale." It shall be unlawful to remove or obliterate any
such tag or device placed upon such commodity or container
or in any way dispose of or commingle such commodity or
container or prepare, pack, place, deliver for shipment, deliver
for sale, sell, or cause to be loaded, shipped, or transported,
any such commodity or container before it has been released
by the sealer.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 12601) of
Division 5 of the Business and Professions Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 12601) of
Division 5 is added to the Business and Professions Code, to
read:

       CHAPTER 6.    FAIR PACKAGING AND LABELING A C T

   12601. This chapter is designed to protect purchasers of
any commodity within its provisions against deception or mis-
representation. Packages and their labels should enable con-
sumers to obtain accurate information as to the quantity of
the contents and should facilitate value comparisons.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Legislature to
assist in attaining these goals.
   12602. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in
the packaging or labeling of any commodity for distribution
or sale, or for any person (other than a common carrier for
hire, a contract carrier for hire, or a freight forwarder for
hire) engaged in the distribution of any packaged or labeled
commodity, to distribute or to cause to be distributed any such
commodity if such commodity is contained in a package, or
if there is affixed to that commodity a label, which does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter or regulations pro-
mulgated under the authority of this chapter.
   (b) The prohibition contained in subsection (a) shall not
apply to persons engaged in business as wholesale or retail
distributors of commodities except to the extent that such
persons (1) are engaged in the packaging or labeling of such
commodities, or (2) prescribe or specify by any means the
manner in which such commodities are packaged or labeled.
   12603. No person subject to the prohibition contained in
Section 12602 shall distribute any packaged commodity unless
in conformity with regulations which shall be established by
the director which shall provide t h a t :
    (a) The commodity shall bear a label specifying the iden-
tity of the commodity and the name and place of business of
the manufacturer, packer, or distributor;
    (b) The net quantity of contents (in terms of weight, meas-
 ure, or numerical count) shall be separately and accurately
stated in a uniform location upon the principal display panel
of that label.
2644             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Qfo J3Q9

   12604. The separate label statement of net quantity of
contents appearing on or affixed to any package shall be in
conformity with regulations promulgated by the director
which will require that the statement:
   (a) On a package containing less than four pounds or one
gallon and labeled in terms of weight or fluid measure, shall,
unless subparagraph (b) applies and such statement is set
forth in accordance with such subparagraph, be expressed both
in ounces (with identification as to avoirdupois or fluid
ounces) and, if applicable, in pounds for weight units, with
any remainder in terms of ounces or common or decimal frac-
tions of the pound; or in the case of liquid measure, in the
largest whole unit (quarts, quarts and pints, or pints, as ap-
propriate) with any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or
common or decimal fractions of the pint or quart;
   (b) On a random package, may be expressed in terms of
pounds and decimal fractions of the pound carried out to not
more than two decimal places, or pounds and ounces;
   (c) On a package labeled in terms of linear measure, shall
be expressed both in terms of inches and the largest whole
unit (yards, yards and feet, or feet, as appropriate) with
any remainder in terms of inches or common or decimal frac-
tions of the foot or yard;
   (d) On a package labeled in terms of measure of area, shall
be expressed both in terms of square inches and the largest
whole square unit (square yards, square yards and square
feet, or square feet, as appropriate) with any remainder in
terms of square inches or common or decimal fractions of the
square foot or square yard;
    (e) Shall appear in conspicuous and easily legible type in
distinct contrast (by typography, layout, color, embossing, or
molding) with other matter on the package;
    (f) Shall contain letters or numerals in a type size which
shall be (1) established in relationship to the area of the
principal display panel of the package, and (2) uniform for
all packages of substantially the same size; and
   (g) Shall be so placed that the lines of printed matter in-
cluded in that statement are generally parallel to the base on
which the package rests as it is designed to be displayed.
   12605. No person subject to the prohibition contained in
Section 12602 shall distribute or cause to be distributed in
commerce any packaged commodity if any qualifying words
or phrases appear in conjunction with the separate statement
of the net quantity of contents required by Section 12603(b),
but nothing in this chapter shall prohibit supplemental state-
ments, at other places on the package, describing in nondecep-
tive terms the net quantity of contents: provided, that such
supplemental statements of net quantity of contents shall not
include any term qualifying a unit of weight, measure, or
count that tends to exaggerate the amount of the commodity
contained in the package.
                    1969
Ch. 1309]                  REGULAR SESSION                  g64§

    In no case shall any declaration of quantity be qualified by
the addition of the words " m i n i m u m , " or "when packed,"
or words of similar import; nor shall any unit of weight,
measure or count be qualified by any term (such as jumbo,
giant, full, or the like) that tends to exaggerate the amount
of the commodity in the package.
    12606. No container wherein commodities are packed
shall have a false bottom, false sidewalls, false lid or covering,
or be otherwise so constructed or filled, wholly or partially, as
to facilitate the perpetration of deception or fraud. No con-
tainer shall be nonfunctionally slack filled, that is, filled to
substantially less than its capacity for reasons other than (a)
protection of the contents of such package or (b) the require-
ments of machines used for enclosing the contents in such
package.
    Any sealer may seize any container which facilitates the
perpetration of deception or fraud and the contents of such
container. By order of the justice's, municipal or superior
court of the township, city, or county within which a viola-
tion of this section occurs, the containers seized shall be con-
demned and destroyed or released upon such conditions as the
court may impose to insure against their use in violation of
this chapter. The contents of any condemned container shall
be returned to the owner thereof if he furnishes proper facili-
ties for such return.
    12607. Whenever a consumer commodity is offered for sale,
 exposed for sale or sold without a statement of net quantity
 appearing thereon as required by this chapter, the sealer shall
 in writing order the commodity off sale and require that a
 correct statement of net quantity be placed on the commodity
 before the same may be released by the sealer.
     12608. A statement of weight shall be in terms of the
 avoirdupois pound and ounce. A statement of liquid measure
 shall be in terms of the United States gallon of 231 cubic
 inches, quart, pint and fluid ounce and shall express the
 volume at 68° Fahrenheit (20° centigrade). Statements of
 content for liquid petroleum products shall be expressed at
 60° Fahrenheit; refrigerated commodities shall be expressed at
 40° Fahrenheit; and frozen products shall be expressed at the
 temperature at which they are kept or offered for sale. A
 statement of dry measure shall be in terms of the United
  States bushel of 2,150.42 cubic inches, peck, dry quart, and
  dry pint. A statement of linear measure shall be in the terms
  of the standard yard, foot, and inch. A statement of net
  quantity in terms of the metric system may be used in addi-
  tion to the required statement of content. A statement of
  numerical count shall be expressed either in English words
  or Arabic numerals.
     Fluid products may be tested by a weights and measures
  official on the basis of weight as prescribed by regulations of
  the director.
2646              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              IQJj J 3 0 9

    12609. The director shall establish necessary rules and reg-
ulations to carry out the design of this division, or for the
testing of packages to verify the net quantity statements. Such
regulations shall include exemptions from full compliance
with this chapter for good and sufficient reasons. Any such
exemptions affecting consumer commodities shall be in agree-
ment with exemptions permitted by federal regulations. Any
such rule or regulation, or amendment thereof, shall be
adopted and promulgated by the director in conformity with
the provisions of Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 11371
of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code).
    12610. The director may promulgate regulations similar
to those promulgated by the Secretary of Health, Education,
and "Welfare or the Federal Trade Commission pursuant to
the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act (P.L. 89-755; 80 Stat.
1296; 15 U.S.C. 1451-1461) effective to—
    1. Establish and define standards for characterization of the
size of a package enclosing any commodity, which may be used
to supplement the label statement of net quantity of contents
of packages containing such commodity, but this paragraph
shall not be construed as authorizing any limitation on the
size, shape, weight, dimensions, or number of packages which
 may be used to enclose any commodity;
    2. Eequire that the label on each package of a commodity
  (other than one which is a food within the meaning of Section
 201(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) bear
 the common or usual name of such consumer commodity, if
 any.
    12611. I t is unlawful to pack, ship, or sell any commodity
 in a container which does not conform to all the specifications
 of this chapter; or which is not conspicuously marked, branded,
 or otherwise labeled as required by this chapter; or on which
 any word, statement or other information required by this
 chapter is not prominently placed, in such terms and with
 such conspicuousness, as compared with other words, state-
 ments, designs or devices on the label or container, as to ren-
 der it likely to be read and understood by ordinary persons
 under customary conditions of purchase and use.
     12612. The sale of any commodity packaged in a container,
 wherein both the container and the contents thereof comply
 with any act of Congress or rules or regulations promulgated
 thereunder, appertaining to weight, measure or count, does
 not violate the provisions of this chapter; nor does the sale of
 alcoholic beverages in containers complying with a rule, regu-
 lation or an approval of the United States Treasury Depart-
 ment, Internal Eevenue Service, Alcohol, Tobacco and Fire-
 arms Division, or of the State Department of Public Health
 and pertaining to weight, measure or count constitute a viola-
 tion of the provisions of this chapter.
     12613. If any provision of this chapter is less stringent or
 requires information different from any requirement of Sec-
                       1969
Ch. 1310]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2647

tion 4 of the act of Congress entitles " F a i r Packaging and
Labeling A c t " (P.L. 89-755; 80 Stat. 1296; 15 U.S.C. 1451-
1461) or of any regulation promulgated pursuant to such act,
the provision shall be inoperative to the extent that it is less
stringent or requires information different from any such fed-
eral requirement, in which event each such federal require-
ment, is a part of this chapter.
   12614. For the purposes of this chapter:
    (1) "Consumer commodity" means any commodity of any
kind or class which is customarily produced or distributed for
sale through retail sales agencies or instrumentalities for con-
sumption by individuals or use by individuals for the purpose
of personal care or in the performance of services ordinarily
rendered in or aboiit the household or in connection with per-
sonal possessions;
   (2) " P a c k a g e " means any container or wrapping in which
a commodity is enclosed for use in the delivery or display
of that commodity to purchasers, but does not include;
   (a) Shipping containers or outer wrappings used solely for
the transportation of a commodity in bulk or in quantity to
manufacturers, packers or processors;
    (b) Shipping containers or outer wrappings used by retail-
ers to ship or deliver a commodity to retail customers if such
containers or wrappings contain no printed matter pertaining
to a commodity.
   (3) "Consumer package" means a package containing a
consumer commodity.
   (4) "Nonconsumer package" means any package other than
a consumer package, and particularly a package intended
solely for industrial or institutional use or for wholesale dis-
tribution.
   (5) "Random package" means a package which is one of a
lot, shipment or delivery of packages of the same consumer
commodity with varying weights, that is, with no fixed weight
pattern.
    (6) " L a b e l " means any written, printed or graphic matter
affixed to any commodity or affixed to or appearing upon any
package containing any commodity.
   12615. The violation of any provision of this chapter is a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than twenty-
five dollars ($25) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500),
or by imprisonment in the county jail for not exceeding six
months, or by both.

                          CHAPTER 1310
An act to amend Sections 5779 and 5792 of, and to add Sec-
  tion 5787.5 to, the Education Code, relating to the Miller-
  Unruh Basic Beading Act of 1965.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
2648              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 5779 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    5779. Commencing with the school years 1965-66, the State
Board of Education shall require that uniform tests to de-
termine achievement of basic reading fundamentals and skills
shall be administered to all pupils who are completing the
first and second grades. The State Board of Education shall
adopt rules and regulations governing the time, place and
methods for administration of the testing program.
    The State Board of Education shall determine the form in
which the results of uniform tests under this article shall be
reported to the Department of Education, and beginning with
the tests administered in the 1968-69 school year to second and
third grade pupils, shall require, in addition to reports pres-
ently required for purposes of Section 5782, and as based on
publishers' norms, that such reports include a distribution,
based on first grade test results, of the number of months of
 progress achieved for each year the pupils have been in school.
    Uniform tests for each grade shall be recommended by the
 Department of Education and shall be submitted to the State
 Board of Education for approval and adoption no later than
 January 31, 1966. Any test so adopted shall be in national
 use and nationwide norms shall have been developed for such
 test. The tests which have been approved and adopted by the
 board shall be printed or purchased, and distributed to the
 various school districts in the state by the Department of
 Education.
    Pupils who have been determined to be mentally retarded
 or educationally handicapped, as defined in this code, shall be
 exempted from the testing requirement imposed by this
 chapter.
     The testing program imposed by this chapter shall be used
 exclusively for the purposes herein set forth, and no test scores
 or results shall be employed to rank school districts according
 to their test results in any publication, other than a publica-
 tion which may be made necessary in order to effectively ad-
 minister this chapter.
     The tests administered pursuant to this article shall be em-
 ployed to determine each school district's quota of specialist
 reading teachers, as required by Article 4 (commencing with
 Section 5781) of this chapter.
     Commencing with tests administered in the 1969-1970 school
 year, school districts shall submit test score information on a
 per-school basis from the schools served by a specialist teacher.
     SEC. 2. Section 5787.5 is added to the Education Code, to
 read:
     5787.5. School districts shall establish in-service training
 programs to provide an opportunity for elementary school
 teachers of the district to observe on a regular basis the in-
  structional techniques of the specialist teachers.
                       1969
Ch. 1311]                     REGULAR SESSION                  2649

   SEC. 3. Section 5792 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   5792. Allowances under this article shall be made by the
Superintendent of Public Instruction in accordance with a
system of priorities that he shall by rule and regulation adopt,
designed to carry out the intent and purpose of the Legisla-
ture stated in Section 5771.
   The system shall be designed to give priority to districts
in the following order:
   (a) First, to insure that the districts participating in the
program during the preceding fiscal year, which continue to
be eligible, will not be required to reduce programs below the
level of the preceding year.
   (b) Second, to insure that applications for expansion of
programs and applications for new programs in eligible schools
be considered on a priority basis in terms of the percentage of
pupils in grades 2 and 3 in the school that, based upon test
results in grade 1 administered pursuant to Article 3 (com-
mencing with Section 5779) of this chapter, failed to progress
at least one year for each year in school.
   Allowances computed for a district that received only basic
aid in the preceding fiscal year shall be reduced by one-half.
   The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall make no
allowances in any year in excess of the amount appropriated
by the Legislature for the purposes of this chapter.


                          CHAPTER 1311
        An act to amend Section 5254 of the Education
            Code, relating to attendance of pupils.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969 Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 5254 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   5254. A child shall be admitted to a kindergarten in any
term during the first school month of the term, if he is of the
age prescribed. For good cause the governing board of a school
district may permit a child of proper age to be admitted to
a class after the first school month of the school term.
   If there is but one term during the school year, the child
shall be 4 years and 9 months of age on or before September
1st of the current school year. If there are two terms main-
tained during the school year, the child shall be 4 years and 9
months of age on or before September 1st of the current
school year, before he may be admitted in the first term of the
school year, or 4 years and 9 months of age on or before
2650                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     rQJj. J 3 J 2

February 1st of the current school year, before he may be
admitted in the second term in any school year.
  A child who will be 4 years and 9 months of age on or
before September 1st, may be admitted to the prekindergarten
summer program maintained by the school district for pupils
who will be enrolling in kindergarten in September.


                          CHAPTEE 1312
       An act to add Section 13561.2 to the Education          Code,
                relating to public school employees.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 13561.2 is added to the Education
Code, to read:
   13561.2. The governing board of any school district may
also utilize persons not having certification qualifications to
supervise the pupils of the district during any breakfast pe-
riod or other nutrition period. The compensation of such per-
sonnel may be paid from funds from which the compensation
of personnel employed under Section 13561.1 may be paid.


                          CHAPTEE 1313
       An act to add Section 8201.5 to the Government          Code,
               relating to disclosure of information.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 8201.5 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   8201.5. The Secretary of State shall require an applicant
for appointment and commission as a notary public to complete
an application form prescribed by the Secretary of State. In-
formation on this form filed by an applicant with the Secretary
of State, except for his name and address, is confidential and
no individual record shall be divulged by an official or em-
ployee having access to it to any person other than the appli-
cant, his authorized representative, or an employee or officer
of the federal government, the state government, or a local
agency, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 6252 of the
Government Code, acting in his official capacity. Such infor-
mation shall be used by the Secretary of State for the sole
purpose of carrying out the duties of this chapter.
                       1969
Ch. 13151                     RBG-ULAR SESSION                          2651

                          CHAPTER 1314
     An act to amend Section 13506 of the Education             Code,
             relating to teachers' salary schedules.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13506 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   13506. Effective July 1, 1970, each person employed by a
district in a position requiring certification qualifications ex-
cept a person employed in a position requiring administrative
or supervisory credentials, shall be classified on the salary
schedule on the basis of uniform allowance for years of train-
ing and years of experience. Employees shall not be placed in
different classifications on the schedule, nor paid different sal-
aries, solely on the basis of the respective grade levels in which
such employees serve.
   In no case shall the governing board of a school district draw
orders for the salary of any teacher in violation of this section,
nor shall any superintendent draw any requisition for the
salary of any teacher in violation thereof.
  This section shall not apply to teachers of special day and
evening classes in elementary schools, teachers of special classes
for elementary pupils, teachers of special day and evening high
school classes, substitute teachers, and junior college districts.
   SEC. 2. The amendments to Section 13506 of the Educa-
tion Code effected by Section 1 of this act shall become oper-
ative on July 1,1970.
   SEC. 3. I t is the intent of the Legislature in amending
Section 13506 of the Education Code as provided in Section 1
of this act to establish a uniform base salary schedule in each
school district. I t is not the intent of the Legislature in this
act to limit a school district governing board in developing
pay incentive programs.

                              CHAPTER 1315

     An act to amend Section 13443 of the Education             Code,
              relating to prooationa/ry employees.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13443 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   13443. (a) No later than March 15 and before an employee
is given notice by the governing board that his services will
2652               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Ch.1315

not be required for the ensuing year, the governing board
and the employee shall be given written notice by the super-
intendent of the district or his designee, or in the case of a
district which has no superintendent by the clerk or secretary
of the governing board, that it has been recommended that
such notice be given to the employee, and stating the reasons
therefor.
    (b) The employee may request a hearing to determine if
there is cause for not reemploying him for the ensuing year.
A request for a hearing must be in writing and must be deliv-
ered to the person who sent the notice pursuant to subdivision
 (a), on or before a date specified therein, which shall not be
less than seven days after the date on which the notice is served
upon the employee. If an employee fails to request a hearing on
or before the date specified, his failure to do so shall constitute
his waiver of his right to a hearing. The notice provided for in
subdivision (a) shall advise the employee of the provisions of
this subdivision.
    (c) In the event a hearing is requested by the employee,
the proceeding shall be conducted and a decision made in
accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500)
of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code and
the governing board shall have all the power granted to an
agency therein, except that: (1) the respondent shall file his
notice of defense, if any, within five days after service upon
him of the accusation and he shall be notified of such five-day
period for filing in the accusation; (2) the discovery author-
ized by Section 11507.6 of the Government Code shall be avail-
able only if request is made therefor within 15 days after serv-
ice of the accusation, and the notice required by Section 11505
 of the Government Code shall so indicate; and (3) the hearing
shall be conducted by a hearing- officer who shall prepare a
proposed decision, containing findings of fact and a determina-
tion as to whether the charges sustained by the evidence are
related to the welfare of the schools and the pupils thereof,
but the proposed decision shall not contain a determination as
to the sufficiency of the cause or a recommendation as to dis-
position, which sufficiency and disposition shall be determined
by the governing board. The proposed decision shall be sub-
mitted to the governing board on or before May 7 of the year
in which the proceeding is commenced. All expenses of the
hearing, including the cost of the hearing officer, shall be paid
by the governing board from the district funds. The board
may adopt from time to time such rules and procedures not
inconsistent with provisions of this section, as may be neces-
 sary to effectuate this section.
    (d) The governing board's determination not to reemploy a
 probationary employee for the ensuing school year shall be
for cause only. The determination of the governing board as
to the sufficiency of the cause pursuant to this section shall
be conclusive, but the cause shall relate solely to the welfare of
 the schools and the pupils thereof. The decision made after the
                      1969
Ch. 1316]                    REGULAR SESSION                    2653

hearing shall be effective on May 15 of the year in which the
proceeding is commenced.
    (e) Notice to the probationary employee by the governing
board that his service will not be required for the ensuing
year, shall be given no later than May 15.
    (f) If a governing board notifies a probationary employee
that his services will not be required for the ensuing year, the
board shall, within 10 days after delivery to it of the em-
ployee's written request, provide him with a statement of its
reasons for not reemploying him for the ensuing school year.
    (g) Any notice or request shall be deemed sufficient when
it is delivered in person to the employee to whom it is directed,
or when it is deposited in the United States registered mail,
postage prepaid and addressed to the last known address of
the employee.
    (h) In the event that the governing board does not give
notice provided for in subdivision (e) of this section on or
before May 15, the employee shall be deemed reemployed for
the ensuing school year.
    (i) If after request for hearing pursuant to subdivision (b)
any continuance is granted pursuant to Government Code Sec-
tion 11524, the dates prescribed in subdivisions (c), (d), (e)
and (h) which occur on or after the date of granting the con-
tinuance shall be extended for a period of time equal to such
continuance.

                             CHAPTER 1316
      An act to add Section 8823.5 to the Elections Code,
            relating to county central committees.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8823.5 is added to the Elections Code,
to read:
   8823.5. Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, each
county central committee by resolution may provide for the
election of all or a portion of central committee members to
represent individual central committee districts. The member
shall reside in the district he represents but shall be elected
at large within the Assembly district in which the county cen-
tral committee district he represents is located.
   The county central committee shall reapportion itself at
least every 10 years, prior to the June primary election of that
year. Each district shall be apportioned on the basis of the
number of registered Democrats for the June primary in each
even-numbered year, with no more than a 10-percent deviation
from the average. Each district shall be compact, contiguous,
and utilize any natural and neighborhood boundaries. The dis-
2654               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      [ Q ^ 1317

trict boundaries shall not cut across any precinct district's
lines as drawn by the county clerk for the last general or
consolidated election.
   This section shall not apply to a county containing' 20 or
more Assembly districts.

                         C H A P T E E 1317
       An act to amend Section 8820 of the Elections Code,
              relating to county central committees.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8820 of the Elections Code is amended
to read:
   8820. In each county containing less than five Assembly
districts, a county committee shall be elected by supervisor
districts, and the number to be elected from any supervisor
district shall be determined as follows: There shall be taken
the number of votes cast in the supervisor district at the last
gubernatorial election for that party's candidate for Governor,
or, if the party had no candidate for Governor, for the candi-
date of the party voted on throughout the state who received
the greatest number of votes and who was the candidate of
that party alone. This number shall be divided by one-twentieth
of the number of votes cast in that county for Governor or,
where the party had no candidate for Governor, for the candi-
date mentioned above. The integer next larger than the quo-
tient obtained by such division shall constitute the number
of members of the committee to be elected by that party in
that supervisor district.
   The committees in counties containing less than five Assem-
bly districts shall be composed of not less than 21 members.
If the procedure outlined above would result in less than 21
members being elected for any committee, the number of votes
cast for this party's candidate in each supervisor district shall
be divided by an amount sufficiently smaller than one-twentieth
 of the votes cast for Governor in that county as to give a
membership in the committee equal to or the nearest amount
which is greater than 21 members.
   In a county of the eighth class as defined in Section 28029
of the Government Code, the county central committee by
resolution may provide for the election of twenty-five (25)
central committee members to represent twenty-five (25) indi-
vidual central committee districts. Each member shall reside
in the district he represents, but shall be elected at large
within the Assembly district in which the county central com-
 mittee district he represents is located.
                       1969
Ch. 1318]                     REGULAR SESSION                      2655


   The county central committee shall reapportion itself at
least every 10 years, prior to the June primary election of
that year. Bach district shall be apportioned on the basis of
the number of registered Democrats for the June primary in
each even-numbered year, with no more than a 10-percent
deviation from the average. Each district shall be compact,
contiguous, and utilize any natural and neighborhood bound-
aries. The district boundaries shall not cut across any pre-
cinct district's lines as drawn by the county clerk for the last
general or consolidated election.


                          CHAPTER 1318
   An act to amend Sections 23130 and 27160 of the Vehicle
               Code, relating to motor vehicles.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969 Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 23130 of the Vehicle Code is amended
to read:
   23130. (a) No person shall operate either a motor vehicle
or combination of vehicles of a type subject to registration at
any time or under any condition of grade, load, acceleration
or deceleration in such a manner as to exceed the following
noise limit for the category of motor vehicle based on a distance
of 50 feet from the center of the lane of travel within the speed
limits specified in this section:
                                                 Speed limit Speed limit
                                                  of 35 mph   of more
                                                   or less than 35 mph
  (1) Any motor vehicle with a manu-
      facturer's gross vehicle weight rat-
      ing of 6,000 pounds or more, any
      combination of vehicles towed by
      such motor vehicle, and any motor-
      cycle other than a motor-driven
      cycle:
         (A) Before January 1, 1973        88 dbA              90 dbA
         (B) On and after January 1, 1973 86 dbA               90 dbA
  (2) Any other motor vehicle and any
      combination of vehicles towed by
      such motor vehicle                   82 dbA              86 dbA

   (b) The department shall adopt regulations establishing the
test procedures and instrumentation to be utilized.
   (c) This section applies to the total noise from a vehicle
or combination of vehicles and shall not be construed as limit-


   84—1954
2656              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qn> J3^g

ing or precluding the enforcement of any other provisions of
this code relating to motor vehicle exhaust noise.
   (d) For the purpose of this section, a motortruck, truck
tractor, or bus that is not equipped with an identification plate
or marking bearing the manufacturer's name and manufac-
turer 's gross vehicle weight rating shall be considered as hav-
ing a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of 6,000
pounds or more if the unladen weight is more than 5,000
pounds.
   (e) No person shall have a cause of action relating to the
provisions of this section against a manufacturer of a vehicle
or a component part thereof on a theory based upon breach
of express or implied warranty unless it is alleged and proved
that such manufacturer did not comply with noise limit stand-
ards of the Vehicle Code applicable to manufacturers and in
effect at the time such vehicle or component part was first sold
for purposes other than resale.
   SEC. 2. Section 27160 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   27160. (a) No person shall sell or offer for sale a new
motor vehicle which produces a maximum noise exceeding the
following noise limit at a distance of 50 feet from the center-
line of travel under test procedures established by the depart-
ment:

  (1) Any motorcycle manufactured before January
      1, 1970                                       92dbA
  (2) Any motorcycle, other than a motor-driven
      cycle, manufactured on or after January 1,
      1970, and before January 1, 1973              88 dbA
  (3) Any motorcycle, other than a motor-driven
      cycle, manufactured on or after January 1,
      1973                                          86 dbA
  (4) Any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
      rating of 6,000 pounds or more manufactured
      on or after January 1, 1968, and before Jan-
      uary 1, 1973                                  88 dbA
  (5) Any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
      rating of 6,000 pounds or more manufactured
      on or after January 1, 1973                   86 dbA
  (6) Any other motor vehicle manufactured on or
      after January 1, 1968, and before January 1,
      1973                                          86 dbA
  (7) Any other motor vehicle manufactured after
      January 1, 1973                               84 dbA

   (b) Test procedures for compliance with this section shall
be established by the department, taking into consideration
the test procedures of the Society of Automotive Engineers.
                       1969
Ch. 1319]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2657

                          CHAPTER 1319
             An act to amend Section 647 of the Penal
               Code, relating to disorderly conduct.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 647 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   647. Every person who commits any of the following acts
shall be guilty of disorderly conduct, a misdemeanor:
   (a) Who solicits anyone to engage in or who engages in
lewd or dissolute conduct in any public place or in any place
open to the public or exposed to public view.
   (b) Who solicits or who engages in any act of prostitution.
As used in this subdivision, "prostitution" includes any lewd
act between persons for money or other consideration.
   (c) Who accosts other persons in any public place or in
any place open to the public for the purpose of begging or
soliciting alms.
   (d) Who loiters in or about any toilet open to the public
for the purpose of engaging in or soliciting any lewd or las-
civious or any unlawful act.
   (e) Who loiters or wanders upon the streets or from place
to place without apparent reason or business and who refuses
to identify himself and to account for his presence when re-
quested by any peace officer so to do, if the surrounding cir-
cumstances are such as to indicate to a reasonable man that
the public safety demands such identification.
   (f) Who is found in any public place under the influence
of intoxicating liquor, or any drug, or the influence of toluene
or any substance defined as a poison in Schedule D of Section
4160 of the Business and Professions Code, or under the in-
fluence of any combination of any intoxicating liquor, drug,
toluene or any such poison, in such a condition that he is un-
able to exercise care for his own safety or the safety of others,
or by reason of his being under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, or any drug, or the influence of toluene or any sub-
stance defined as a poison in Schedule D of Section 4160 of the
Business and Professions Code, or under the influence of any
combination of any intoxicating liquor, drug, toluene or any
such poison, interferes with or obstructs or prevents the free
use of any street, sidewalk or other public way.
   (g) Who loiters, prowls or wanders upon the private prop-
erty of another, in the nighttime, without visible or lawful
business with the owner or occupant thereof; or who, while
loitering, prowling or wandering upon the private property
of another, in the nighttime, peeks in the door or window of
any inhabited building or structure located thereon, without
visible or lawful business with the owner or occupant thereof.
2658               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQJ1_ 1 3 1 9

     (h) Who lodges in any building, structure or place,
 whether public or private, without the permission of the
 owner or person entitled to the possession or in control thereof.
    In any accusatory pleading charging a violation of subdi-
 vision (b) of this section, if the defendant has been once
 previously convicted of a violation of such subdivision,
 such previous conviction shall be charged in the accusatory
 pleading, and if such previous conviction is found to be true
 by the jury, upon a jury trial, or by the court, upon a court
 trial, or is admitted by the defendant, the defendant shall be
 imprisoned in the county jail for not less than 45 days and
 shall not be eligible for release upon completion of sentence, or
 on parole, or on any other basis until the defendant has served
 not less than 45 days in the county jail. In no such case
 shall the trial court grant probation or suspend the execution
 of sentence imposed upon such person.
    In any accusatory pleading charging a violation of subdivi-
 sion (b) of this section, if the defendant has been previously
 convicted two or more times of a violation of such subdivi-
 sion, each such previous conviction shall be charged in the ac-
 cusatory pleading, and if two or more of such previous con-
 victions are found to be true by the jury, upon a jury trial, or
 by the court, upon a court trial, or are admitted by the de-
 fendant, the defendant shall be imprisoned in the county jail
 for not less than 90 days and shall not be eligible for re-
 lease upon completion of sentence, or on parole, or on any
 other basis until the defendant has served not less than 90
 days in the county jail. In no such case shall the trial court
 grant probation or suspend the execution of sentence imposed
upon such person.
    SEC. 2. Section 647 of the Penal Code is amended to read:
    (a) Who solicits anyone to engage in or who engages in
lewd or dissolute conduct in any public place or in any place
open to the public or exposed to public view.
    (b) Who solicits or who engages in any act of prostitution.
As used in this subdivision, "prostitution" includes any lewd
act between persons for money or other consideration.
    (c) Who accosts other persons in any public place or in
any place open to the public for the purpose of begging or
soliciting alms.
    (d) Who loiters in or about any toilet open to the public
for the purpose of engaging in or soliciting any lewd or las-
civious or any unlawful act.
    (e) Who loiters or wanders upon the streets or from place
to place without apparent reason or business and who refuses
to identify himself and to account for his presence when re-
quested by any peace officer so to do, if the surrounding cir-
cumstances are such as to indicate to a reasonable man that
the public safety demands such identification.
    (f) Who is found in any public place under the influence
of intoxicating liquor, or any drug, or the influence of toluene
                     1969
Ch. 1319]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2659

 or any substance denned as a poison in Schedule D of Section
 4160 of the Business and Professions Code, or under the in-
 fluence of any combination of any intoxicating liquor, drug,
 toluene or any such poison, in such a condition that he is un-
 able to exercise care for his own safety or the safety of others,
 or by reason of his being under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, or any drug, or the influence of toluene or any sub-
 stance defined as a poison in Schedule D of Section 4160 of the
Business and Professions Code, or under the influence of any
combination of any intoxicating liquor, drug, toluene or any
such poison, interferes with or obstructs or prevents the free
use of any street, sidewalk or other public way.
     (g) Who loiters, prowls or wanders upon the private prop-
erty of another, in the nighttime, without visible or lawful
business with the owner or occupant thereof.
    (h) Who, while loitering, prowling or wandering upon the
private property of another, in the nighttime, peeks in the
door or window of any inhabited building or structure located
thereon, without visible or lawful business with the owner or
occupant thereof.
    (i) Who lodges in any building, structure or place, whether
public or private, without the permission of the owner or
person entitled to the possession or in control thereof.
    In any accusatory pleading charging a violation of subdivi-
sion (b) of this section, if the defendant has been once pre-
viously convicted of a violation of such subdivision, such
previous conviction shall be charged in the accusatory plead-
ing, and if such previous conviction is found to be true by
the jury, upon a jury trial, or by the court, upon a court trial,
or is admitted by the defendant, the defendant shall be im-
prisoned in the county jail for not less than 45 days and shall
not be eligible for release upon completion of sentence, or on
parole, or on any other basis until the defendant has served
not less than 45 days in the county jail. I n no such case shall
the trial court grant probation or suspend the execution of
sentence imposed upon such person.
    In any accusatory pleading charging a violation of sub-
division (b) of this section, if the defendant has been pre-
viously convicted two or more times of a violation of such
subdivision, each such previous conviction shall be charged in
the accusatory pleading, and if two or more of such previous
convictions are found to be true by the jury, upon a jury trial,
or by the court, upon a court trial, or are admitted by the
defendant, the defendant shall be imprisoned in the county
jail for not less than 90 days and shall not be eligible for
release upon completion of sentence, or on parole, or on any
other basis until the defendant has served not less than 90
days in the county jail. In no such case shall the trial court
grant probation or suspend the execution of sentence imposed
upon such person.
   SEC. 3. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
proposed by both this bill and Assembly Bill No. 401 to Sec-
2660              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. J320

tion 647 of the Penal Code are enacted, that the amendments
made by both bills be given effect and incorporated in Section
647 of the Penal Code in the form set forth in Section 2 of
this act. Therefore, in the event Assembly Bill No. 401 is
enacted, Section 2 of this act shall become operative at the
same time that Section 647 of the Penal Code as amended by
Assembly Bill No. 401 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 647 of the Penal Code as amended by Section 1 of
this act is repealed.

                        CHAPTER 1320
An act to amend Sections 17009, 23038, 23701, 23701d, 23702,
  23772, and 23772.5 of, and to add Sections 23773, 23774,
  23775, 23776, and 26451.3 to the Revenue and Taxation
  Code, relating to tax-exempt organizations, and making an
  appropriation therefor.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17009 of the Eevenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
   17009. "Corporation" includes joint stock companies or
associations, insurance companies, and business trusts or so-
called "Massachusetts t r u s t s . " "Corporation" also includes a
trust organized and operated exclusively for purposes con-
tained in Section 23701d which has applied for and been
granted an exemption from tax under Section 23701d.
   SEC. 2. Section 23038 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   23038. "Corporation" includes every corporation except:
   (a) Banks.
   (b) Corporations expressly exempt from the tax by this
part or the Constitution of this state.
   For the purposes of the tax imposed under Chapter 3,
"corporation" also includes associations, other than banking
associations, and Massachusetts or business trusts. For the
purposes of this part, a Massachusetts or business trust includes
every business organization consisting essentially of an ar-
rangement whereby property is conveyed to one, or more than
one, trustee for purposes other than the mere conservation of
assets, collecting and disbursing of fixed or periodic income,
or the securing of an obligation.
    "Corporation" includes any "corporation" operated by
any receiver, liquidator, referee, trustee or other officers or
agents appointed by any court, or an assignee for the benefit
of creditors.
   "Corporation" includes any professional corporation incor-
porated pursuant to Part 4 (commencing with Section 13400)
of Division 3 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code.
                     19G9
Ch. 1320]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2661

    Notwithstanding the above, "corporation" also includes a
 trust organized and operated exclusively for purposes con-
 tained in Section 23701d which has applied for and been
 granted an exemption from tax under Section 23701d.
    SEC. 3. Section 23701 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
 amended to read:
    23701. Organizations which are organized and operated
for nonprofit purposes within the provisions of a specific sec-
 tion of this article are exempt from the taxes imposed under
this part, except as provided in Article 2 (commencing with
 Section 23731) of this chapter, if:
    (a) An application for exemption is submitted in the form
prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board; and
    (b) A filing fee of ten dollars ($10) is paid with each
application for exemption filed with the Franchise Tax
Board after December 31, 1969; and
    (c) The Franchise Tax Board issues a determination ex-
empting the organization from tax.
    This section shall not prevent a determination from having
retroactive effect.
    The Franchise Tax Board may issue rulings and regulations
as are necessary and reasonable to carry out the provisions of
this article.
    SEC. 4. Section 23701d of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
    23701d. Corporations organized and operated exclusively
for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational pur-
poses, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals,
no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of
any private shareholder or individual, and no substantial part
of the activities of which is carrying on propaganda, or other-
wise attempting to influence legislation. An organization is
not organized exclusively for exempt purposes listed above
unless its assets are irrevocably dedicated to one or more pur-
poses listed in this section. Dedication of assets requires that
in the event of dissolution of an organization or the impossi-
bility of performing the specific organizational purposes the
assets would continue to be devoted to exempt purposes. Assets
shall be deemed irrevocably dedicated to exempt purposes if
the articles of organization provide that upon dissolution the
assets will be distributed to an organization which is exempt
under this section or Section 501(C)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code or to the federal government, or to a state or
local government for public purposes; or by a provision in
the articles of organization, satisfactory to the Franchise
Tax Board; that the property will be distributed in trust
for exempt purposes; or by establishing that the assets are
irrevocably dedicated to exempt purposes by operation of law.
The irrevocable dedication requirement shall not be a sole
basis for revocation of an exempt determination made by the
Franchise Tax Board prior to the effective date of this amend-
ment.
2662              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQJ^ 1 3 2 0

   SEC. 5. Section 23702 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   23702. An organization operated for the primary purpose
of carrying on a trade or business for profit shall not be
exempt under any section of this article on the ground that all
of its profits are payable to one or more organizations exempt
from taxation under this article, or on the basis that it is using
all its profits for purposes which would be exempt from taxa-
tion under this article, if conducted by a separate corporation.
For the purposes of this section the term "trade or business"
shall not include the rental by an organization of its real prop-
erty (including personal property leased with the real prop-
erty).
   SEC. 6. Section 23772 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   23772. Every organization exempt under Article 1 (com-
mencing with Section 23701) of this chapter, except:
   (a) A religious organization exempt under Section 23701d;
   (b) An educational organization exempt under Section
23701d, if such organization normally maintains a regular
faculty and curriculum and normally has a regularly orga-
nized body of pupils or students in attendance at the place
where its educational activities are regularly carried on; or
   (c) A charitable organization, or an organization for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, exempt under
Section 23701d, if such organization is supported, in whole or
in part, by funds contributed by the United States or any
state or political subdivision thereof, or is primarily supported
by contributions of the general public; or
   (d) An organization exempt under Section 23701d, if such
organization is operated, supervised, or controlled by or in
connection with a religious organization described in subsec-
tion (a) —
   Shall file an annual information return with the Franchise
Tax Board on or before the 15th day of the fifth full calendar
month following the close of the income year setting forth—
   (1) Its gross receipts for the year,
   (2) Its expenses attributable to such income and incurred
within the year,
   (3) Its disbursements within the year for the purposes for
which it is exempt,
   (4) Its accumulation of income within the year,
   (5) Its aggregate accumulations of income at the beginning
of the year,
   (6) Its disbursements out of principal in the current and
prior years for the purposes for which it is exempt,
   (7) A balance sheet showing its assets, liabilities and net
worth as of the beginning of such year, and
   (8) Such other information as the Franchise Tax Board
may by regulation prescribe.
   (e) Any organization exempt from taxes under Article 1
(commencing with Section 23701) of this chapter shall pay
                    1969
Ch. 13201                  REGULAR SESSION                  2663

the minimum tax provided for by Section 23153 for any year
or years for which it fails to file, on or before the due date,
the annual return required by this section.
    (f) A filing fee of five dollars ($5) must be paid on or
before the due date for filing the annual information return
required under this section. If not paid on or before such due
date, the filing fee shall be ten dollars ($10). All collection
remedies provided in Chapter 23 (commencing with Section
26131) of this part shall be applicable to collection of the
filing fee.
    (g) The provisions of this section shall be applicable to in-
come years ending after December 31, 1969.
   SEC. 7. Section 23772.5 of the Kevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   23772.5. An organization otherwise required to file the re-
turn specified in Section 23772 need not file it if its gross re-
ceipts are less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000) and it has
assets with a fair market value of less than ten thousand dol-
lars ($10,000).
   SEC. 8. Section 23773 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:
   23773. (a) On or before the 15th day of the fifth full
calendar month following the close of the income year, every
exempt organization not required to file an annual informa-
tion return under Section 23772, by reason of Section 23772.5,
shall file an annual information report with the Franchise Tax
Board setting forth in such form as may be required by the
Franchise Tax Board the following information: the name
and address of the organization, its major activity or activi-
ties, the section of the Internal Revenue Code under which it
is exempt, the type of federal income tax return filed, if any,
and its gross receipts, expenditures and net income for the
year.
    (b) A filing fee of five dollars ($5) must be paid on or
before the due date for filing the information report required
under this section. If not paid on or before such due date,
the amount of the filing fee shall be ten dollars ($10). All
collection remedies provided in Chapter 23 of this part shall
be applicable to collection of the filing fee.
    (c) The provisions of this section shall be applicable to
income years ending after December 31, 1969.
    SEC. 9. Section 23775 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   23775. Except for purposes of amending the articles of
incorporation to set forth a new name, under regulations pre-
scribed by the Franchise Tax Board, the corporate powers,
rights and privileges of an exempt domestic corporation may
be suspended and the exercise of the corporate powers, rights
and privileges of a foreign exempt corporation in this state
may be forfeited if the organization fails to—
2664              STATUTES OB" CALIFORNIA            rQJ1- 1320

   (a) File the annual return, report, or statement required
under Section 23772 or 23773, or pay any amount due under
Section 23772 or 23773 on or before the last day of the 12th
month following the close of the income year; or
   (b) Notify the Franchise Tax Board of its annual account-
ing period within nine months after its date of incorporation
or qualification.
   SEC. 10. Section 23776 is added to the Eevenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   23776. Any organization which was suspended under the
provisions of Section 23775 may be relieved therefrom upon
the filing of—
   (a) A new application for exemption and payment of the
ten-dollar ($10) filing fee required under Section 23701;
   (b) An application for revivor;
   (c) Any information returns, reports, statements, notifica-
tions, or amounts due under Section 23772, 23773, or 23775
which were not previously submitted or paid and which re-
sulted in the suspension or forfeiture; and
   (d) An information return, report, or statement and the
amounts specified under Sections 23772 and 23773 for each
year, or part thereof, during the period of suspension in which
the organization conducted any activities or received income,
grants, gifts or any other assets.
   SEC. 11. Section 23777 is added to the Eevenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   23777. The exemption granted to any organization under
the provisions of Article 1 (commencing with Section 23701)
of this chapter may be revoked by the Franchise Tax Board
if the organization fails to—
    (a) File the annual return, report, or statement required
under Section 23772 or 23773, or pay any amount required
under Section 23772 or 23773 on or before the last day of the
12th month following the close of the income year;
   (b) Notify the Franchise Tax Board of its annual account-
ing period within nine months after its date of incorporation
or qualification; or
   (c) Confine its activities to those permitted by the section
under which the exemption was granted.
   SEC. 12. Section 26451.3 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   26451.3. Applications for exemption and any documents
in support of such application filed by an organization which
is exempt under Article 1 (commencing with Section 23701)
of Chapter 4 of this part from the taxes imposed under this
part, shall be excluded from the term "business affairs" within
the meaning of Sections 26451 and 26452. The Franchise Tax
Board may impose a reasonable charge for supplying any
information the disclosure of which is permitted under this
section.
                       1969
Ch. 1322]                     REGULAR SESSION                    2665

  SEC. 14. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund to the Franchise Tax Board, the sum of forty-two thou-
sand dollars ($42,000), or so much thereof as may be neces-
sary, for the expenses of the Franchise Tax Board to carry
out its duties pursuant to this act.


                          C H A P T E E 1321
   An act to add Sections 10757 and 10758 to the         Education
                Code, relating to pupil records.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969 Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10757 is added to the Education Code,
to read :
   10757. A parent or legal guardian shall be permitted to
inspect the written records concerning his child or ward in
any reasonable manner in consultation with a certificated em-
ployee of the district when he requests to do so during regu-
lar hours of the schoolday. If the child's parents or legal
guardians are divorced or separated, only the parent, guard-
ian, or other person having lawful custody of the child shall
be permitted to inspect the written records of the child pur-
suant to this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 10758 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   10758. The governing board of any school district shall give
to each pupil's natural parent or legal guardian, upon written
request, the same written information concerning academic
performance that is given to the parent or guardian having
custody of the pupil. For the purpose of obtaining written in-
formation concerning academic performance without inspec-
tion of the written records by the parent or guardian, the pro-
visions of this section shall control over Section 10757.


                              CHAPTER 1322
An act to amend Sections 29040 and 43068 of, to amend and
  renumber Section 51204 of, and to add Section 51204 to, the
  Government Code, relating to open-space lands.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969 Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 29040 of            the Government        Code is
amended to read:
 2666               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQJ^ J 3 2 2

     29040. On or before June 10th of each year, as the board
  directs, each official or person in charge of any budget unit
 shall file with the auditor an itemized estimate of anticipated
 revenues and proposed expenditures. If the board directs, the
 estimates shall also be filed with the administrative officer. The
 person in charge of the budget of any elementary, high school,
  or unified school district which is unable to maintain the level
  of its educational program by reason of a decrease in assessed
 valuation, as described in Section 51204, may file an itemized
  estimate of anticipated revenue deficiencies caused by such de-
  crease in assessed valuation pursuant to this section.
     SEC. 2. Section 43068 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    43068. Unless a majority of the city electors voting at an
 election held for that purpose are in favor of it, the annual
 property tax shall not exceed one dollar ($1) on each one hun-
 dred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation, exclusive of such tax
  as may be necessary to pay the costs of any pension plan for
 city employees adopted pursuant to Article 2 (commencing
 with Section 45341) of Chapter 2 of Division 5 of this title,
 exclusive of such tax, not to exceed five cents ($0.05) on each
 one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation, as may be
 necessary to pay the costs of civil defense or disaster prepared-
 ness, exclusive of such tax as may be necessary to pay the costs
 of sewerage facilities, exclusive of such tax as may be necessary
 to pay the costs of park and recreation facilities and exclusive
 of such tax in addition to the annual tax levy for other munic-
 ipal purposes authorized by Sections 20532, 37465, 37558,
 43069, and 51204 of this code, Section 5304 of the Public Ee-
 sources Code, Section 27401 of the Education Code, and Chap-
 ter 3 (commencing with Section 65100) of Title 7 of this code.
    SEC. 3. Section 51204 of the Government Code is amended
 and renumbered to read:
    51203. The assessed valuations referred to in Section
 51283, upon the request of either of the parties to the contract,
 will be subject to equalization pursuant to Section 1604 of the
 Revenue and Taxation Code.
    SEC. 4. Section 51204 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
    51204 Any county or city which has entered into contracts
or agreements with owners of land pursuant to this chapter
may provide financial assistance from its general funds to any
elementary, high school or unified school district within which
such land is situated if the board of supervisors or the city
council finds that the district, due to a decrease in assessed
valuation attributable to the restriction in such contracts or
agreements of land within the district, is unable to maintain
its educational program at a level similar to that provided in
the fiscal year immediately prior to the year in which the con-
tracts or agreements qualify the land for valuation pursuant
to Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 421) of Chapter 3 of
                      1969
Ch 13231                     REGULAR SESSION                   2667

Part 2 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The
assistance provided pursuant to this section shall be in such
amounts as the board or council determines to provide. Such
assistance shall not exceed the amount directly attributable to
such contract or agreement. Any funds received pursuant to
this section by an elementary, high school or unified school
district may be deposited by the governing board of the school
district in any fund of the district.
   The board or council may adopt such uniform standards as
it believes necessary to determine the amount and method of
payment of such assistance. The board or council may provide
for such payments to be reduced annually, according to sched-
ule, so as to cease financial assistance over a period of years
specified by the board or council. The board or council may
establish such funds and accounts as are determined to be
necessary or desirable to carry out the provisions of this
section.
   When deferred taxes are collected pursuant to Section
51283, they shall be deposited in the county treasury and dis-
tributed as provided in Section 51283; provided, however,
there shall be deducted from the amount to be distributed to
any district an amount equal to the total payments previously
made by the board or council pursuant to this section.
Amounts deducted from the payments to a district may be
deposited in any fund of the county or city.


                         CHAPTER 1323
An act to amend the heading of Chapter 1 (commencing with
  Section 15900) of Part 12 of Division 3 of Title 2 and Sec-
  tions 15900 and 15901 of the Government Code, relating to
  economic policy of the state.
           [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The heading of Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 15900) of Part 12, of Division 3 of Title 2 of the
Government Code is amended to read:

              CHAPTER 1. POLICY FOR PROMOTING
                    EMPLOYMENT GROWTH

  SEC. 2. Section 15900 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
  15900. The Legislature declares that it is the continuing
policy and responsibility of the state to foster and promote
growth in employment, productivity, income, and purchasing
power.
2668              STATUSES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qfa J324

   The Legislature further declares that in attaining these
goals, the state shall:
      (1) Use all practical means within its power consistent
   with its needs and obligations and other essential consider-
   ations of state policy;
      (2) Seek the assistance and cooperation of industry,
   labor, the federal government and local government;
for the purpose of creating and maintaining the general con-
ditions under which there will be afforded useful employment
opportunities, including self-employment, for all those qualified
persons, willing and seeking work.
   SEC. 3. Section 15901 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   15901. (a) The Governor, utilizing his staff and the re-
sources of state agencies responsible to him in preparation
thereof, shall transmit annually to the Legislature not later
than the 60th calendar day of each regular session an economic
report setting forth:
    (1) A review of economic developments during the pre-
ceding calendar year, including trends in employment, unem-
ployment, income, and major economic sectors as appropriate;
    (2) Forecasts of trends in employment, income, and prices
for the coming year, and trends in such major economic sec-
 tors as it is feasible to present;
    (3) Additional material on the California economy as may
be pertinent and of general interest, with historical analysis
 and projections of use in economic planning whenever possible.
    (b) In conjunction with the economic report, the Governor
shall present an economic message reviewing significant eco-
nomic achievements of the past year, outlining problem areas,
and defining economic policy, and shall make recommendations
 as may be appropriate for programs to further economic de-
velopment, or increase employment, income, and purchasing
power in the state.
    (c) The Governor may transmit from time to time to the
Legislature reports supplementary to the economic report, each
of which shall include a statement on the current status of the
 California economy with respect to employment, income, and
prices, and supplementary or revised recommendations as he
may deem necessary or desirable to achieve the policy declared
in the policy for economic development.


                        CHAPTER 1324
An act to amend Section 10606 of the Education Code, and
  to add Section 53069.5 to the Government Code, relating
  to rewards by local agencies and school districts.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]
                       1969
Ch. 1325]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2669

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 53069.5 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   53069.5. A local agency, as denned in Section 54951, may
offer and pay a reward, the amount thereof to be determined
by the local agency, for information leading to the determina-
tion of the identity of, and the apprehension of, any person
who willfully damages or destroys any property of the local
agency.
   Any person who has willfully damaged or destroyed such
property shall be liable for the amount of any reward paid
pursuant to this section and if he is a minor his parent or
guardian shall also be liable for the amount.
   SEC. 2. Section 10606 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   10606. Any minor who willfully cuts, defaces, or otherwise
injures in any way any property, real or personal, belong-
ing to a school district is liable to suspension or expul-
sion, and the parent or guardian shall be liable for all dam-
ages so caused by the minor. The parent or guardian of any
such minor shall also be liable for the amount of any reward
paid pursuant to Section 53069.5 of the Government Code.
The parent or guardian of a minor shall be liable to a school
district for all property belonging to the school district loaned
to the minor and not returned upon demand of an employee
of the district authorized to make the demand.


                          CHAPTBE 1325
An act to amend Sections 13321 and 14626 of the Government
            Code, relating to state agency budgets.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 19 69 Piled with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13321 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   13321. The budgets shall show the allotments of appropria-
tions or other funds available for the fiscal year by quarter or
other period of time and by organization unit. Expenditures
may be classified by line item for each program in the detail
prescribed by the department. The department may require the
head of the state agency or court, in making up the budget al-
lotments, to set aside a reserve for contingencies or other pur-
poses in such amount as the department determines.
   SEC. 2. Section 14626 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
2670               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     \Ch.   1326

   14626. The department shall devise, install, supervise, and
at its discretion revise and modify a modern and complete ac-
counting system for each agency of the state permitted or
charged by law with the handling of public money or its equiv-
alent, to the end that all revenues, expenditures, receipts, dis-
bursements, resources, obligations, and property of the
state be properly, accurately, and systematically accounted
for and that there shall be obtained accurate and comparable
records, reports, and statements of all the financial affairs of
the state. This system may include a program cost accounting
system as considered necessary. Such system and the ac-
counts maintained by the several agencies of the state shall be
coordinated with the central accounts maintained by the State
Controller, and shall provide the State Controller with, all
information necessary to the maintenance by the State Con-
troller of a comprehensive system of central accounts for the
entire state government. The State Controller or the Director
of General Services may submit to the State Board of Control
and the Board of Control shall consider and adopt any rule
or regulation required to implement this section.


                        CHAPTER 1326
An act to amend Sections 56161, 56221, 56443, 56444, and
  56571 of, the heading of Article 6 (commencing           with
  Section 56251) of Chapter 7 of Division 20 of, Sections
  56534 and 56535 of, and to add Sections 56252, 56253,
  56254, and 56451 to, the Agricultural Code, relating to agri-
  cultural marketing, and making an appropriation      therefor.
          [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 56161 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   56161. This chapter does not apply to or include any of
the following:
   (a) Any nonprofit cooperative association which is orga-
nized and operating pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 54001) of this division or similar law of any other
state, the District of Columbia, or the United States, or the
agents of such organizations in the performance of their duties
as such, except as to that portion of the activities of such or-
ganization, or agent, which involves the handling or dealing
in any farm product of any nonmember of such organization.
   (b) Any person or exchange that buys, receives, or other-
wise handles any farm product as a processor, as that term is
defined in Section 55407.
   (c) Any retail merchant that has a fixed or established
place of business in this state. This exemption of retail mer-
                    1969
Ch. 13261                  REGULAR SESSION                 2671

 chants does not, however, apply to retail merchants that also
 are engaged in the business of selling at wholesale any farm
 product which is purchased from a producer or to any trans-
 action wherein possession of any farm product is obtained from
 a producer and the farm product is sold to another person
without being handled in the regular course of a retail business
which is conducted at a fixed and established place of business.
    (d) Any person that buys any farm product for his own use
or consumption.
    (e) Any person, not otherwise required to be licensed pur-
suant to this chapter, that buys or otherwise acquires posses-
sion of any farm product from a nonprofit cooperative asso-
ciation to which subdivision (a) of this section is applicable.
   SEC. 2. Section 56221 of the Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
   56221. Before any commission merchant's license or deal-
er's license is issued to any commission merchant or dealer,
the applicant shall execute and deliver to the director a surety
bond which is executed by the applicant as principal and by a
surety company qualified and authorized to do business in this
state as surety in the following sum:
   (a) If the application is for a commission merchant's li-
cense, the bond shall be in the sum of five thousand dollars
($5,000).
   (b) If the application is for a dealer's license, the bond
shall be in the sum of four thousand dollars ($4,000).
   The increase in the amount of bond required by this section
made by the Legislature at the 1969 Eegular Session shall not
affect the sufficiency of a bond presently in the possession of
the director until the conclusion of the fixed period of its
coverage as that was measured on the effective date of the
amendments made to this section at the 1969 Regular Session
of the Legislature.
   SEC. 3. The heading of Article 6 (commencing with Section
56251) of Chapter 7 of Division 20 of the Agricultural Code
is amended to read:

  Article 6.   Financing Charges and Financial Statements
   SEC. 4. Section 56252 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   56252. I n addition to the other requirements of this chap-
ter, each application for a commission merchant, or dealer's
license, or for the renewal of any such license, shall include a
true and correct current financial statement of the applicant.
Such financial statement if not prepared by a public account-
ant or certified public accountant shall be on a form prescribed
by the director and shall be submitted under penalty of per-
jury.
   SEC. 5. Section 56253 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
2672              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qh^ J 3 2 6

    56253. If at any time the director has cause or reason to
believe that any licensed commission merchant, or dealer, is in
an unsound financial condition so as to impair his ability to
pay consignor-creditors or producer-creditors in full for farm
products received or handled, he may require such licensee to
file with him a current financial statement which shows the true
and correct financial condition of such licensee. Such financial
statement if not prepared by a public accountant or certified
public accountant shall be on a form prescribed by the director
and shall be submitted under penalty of perjury. Failure of
any licensee to file a financial statement as required by this
section shall be sufficient grounds for revocation of the license
of such licensee.
    SEC. 6. Section 56254 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
    56254. Any financial statement submitted to the director
pursuant to the provisions of this article is confidential and
shall not be divulged except if necessary for the proper de-
termination of any court proceedings or hearing before the
director.
    SEC. 6.5. Section 56443 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
    56443. If a producer-consignor or seller of any farm prod-
 uct fails to obtain settlement satisfactory to him in any trans-
  ition after having notified the consignee, or buyer, a verified
complaint may be filed with the director who shall notify the
person against whom the complaint has been filed and under-
 take to effect a settlement. If he fails to effect such a settle-
ment, he shall call a hearing as provided for in this article.
    SEC. 6.7. Section 56444 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
    56444. Upon the calling of a hearing on such a verified
complaint, the director shall cause a copy of it, together with a
notice of the time and place of hearing of such complaint to be
served personally or by mail upon each person that is named
as a respondent in the verified complaint. Such service shall be
made at least 10 days before the hearing.
    SEC. 7. Section 56451 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
    56451. Any verified complaint filed with the director pur-
suant to this chapter shall be filed not later than one year
after default by the licensee.
    SEC. 8. Section 56534 of the Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
    56534. The director, after hearing, or investigation may
suspend or revoke any license as the case may require, if he
is satisfied that the licensee has become bankrupt or insolvent,
and is thereby unable to pay creditors of the licensee, or pro-
ducers with whom the licensee has executory or executed
contracts for the purchase of any farm product, or for the
handling of any farm product on consignment.
                       l969
Ch. 13271                     REGULAR SESSION                   2673

   SEC. 9. Section 56535 of the Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
   56535. If the director is satisfied that to permit the dealer
or commission merchant to continue to purchase or to receive
further shipments or deliveries of any farm product would
be likely to cause serious and irreparable loss to producer-
creditors, or to producers with whom the dealer or commission
merchant has such contracts, the director may shorten the
time which is provided for hearing upon an order to show
cause why the license of the dealer or commission merchant
should not be forthwith suspended or revoked.
   SEC, 10. Section 56571 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
   56571. Except as otherwise provided in this article or in
Section 55863, each applicant, for filing the application for a
license, shall pay the following fee which is prescribed for
such license:
   (a) Commission Merchants. Eighty dollars ($80) for each
year.
   (b) Dealers. Eighty dollars ($80) for each year.
   (c) Brokers. Eighty dollars ($80) for each year.
   (d) Cash Buyers. Eighty dollars ($80) for each year.
   (e) Agents. Ten dollars ($10) for each license period of
the principal.

                          CHAPTER 1327
        An act to add Section 14012 to the Government
               Code, relating to state property.
            [Approved by Governor August 30, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State August 31, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14012 is added to the Government Code,
to read •.
   14012. The director may lease nonoperating right-of-way
areas to municipalities or other local agencies for public pur-
poses, and may contribute toward the cost of developing local
parks and other recreational facilities on such areas. The direc-
tor may accept as all or part of the consideration for such
lease or for such state contribution any substantial benefits the
state will derive from the municipality or other local agency's
undertaking maintenance or landscaping costs which would
otherwise be the obligation of the state. Such leases shall con-
tain a provision that whenever the leased land is needed for
state highway operating purposes the lease shall terminate.
The department is authorized to classify portions of state high-
way right-of-way as nonoperating.
   SEC. 2. This act shall be known as the "Marler-Johnson
Highway-Park Act".
2674                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQJ1_ 1328

                         CHAPTEE 1328
An act to amend Sections 1300 and 1303 of, the Business and
      Professions Code, relating to clinical laboratories.
           [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 1300 of the Business and Professions
 Code is amended to read:
    1300. The amount of application and license fee under
 this chapter shall be as follows:
     (a) The application fee for a clinical laboratory bioana-
 lyst's license is twenty-five dollars ($25).
     (b) The annual renewal fee for a clinical laboratory bio-
 analyst's license shall be fixed by the board at an amount not
 to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25).
     (c) The application fee for a clinical laboratory technolo-
 gist's license is fifteen dollars ($15).
     (d) The annual renewal fee for a clinical laboratory tech-
 nologist's license shall be fixed by the board at an amount not
 to exceed ten dollars ($10).
    (e) The application fee for a clinical laboratory permit is
 one hundred dollars ($100); provided, however, that when
 the applicant is a district, city, county or city and county, or
 an official thereof, no fee shall be required.
    (f) The annual renewal fee for a clinical laboratory per-
 mit shall be fixed by the board at an amount not to exceed one
 hundred dollars ($100); provided, however, that when the
applicant is a district, city, county, or city and county, or of-
ficial thereof, no fee shall be required.
    (g) The application fee for a clinical laboratory technolo-
gist trainee's registration certificate is five dollars ($5).
    (h) The annual renewal fee for a clinical laboratory tech-
nologist trainee's registration certificate is three dollars ($3).
    (i) The application fee for a duplicate certificate is two dol-
lars ($2).
   (j) The delinquency fee is ten dollars ($10).
   SEC. 2. Section 1303 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   1303. The annual renewal fee set under this chapter shall
be paid on or before the first day of January of each calendar
year. Failure to pay the annual fee in advance during the
time the license remains in force shall, ipso facto, work a
forfeiture of said license after a period of 60 days from the
first day of January of each year.
   The department shall give written notice to all licensees 30
days in advance of the regular renewal date that a renewal fee
has not been paid. In addition, the department shall give
written notice to licensed clinical laboratory bioanalysts and
                       1969
Ch. 1329]                     REGULAR SESSION                       £675

 clinical laboratory technologists by registered mail 90 days in
advance of the expiration of the fifth year that a renewal fee
 has not been paid and if not paid before the expiration of the
fifth year of delinquency the licensee may be subject to reex-
 amination.
    If the renewal fee is not paid for five or more years, the
board may require an examination before reinstating the li-
cense, except that no examination shall be required as a con-
dition for reinstatement if the original license was issued with-
out an examination. No examination shall be required for
reinstatement if the license was forfeited solely by reason of
nonpayment of the renewal fee if such nonpayment was for
less than five years.
    If the license is not renewed within 60 days after its ex-
piration, the licensee, as a condition precedent to renewal,
shall pay a delinquency fee of ten dollars ($10), in addition
to the renewal fee in effect on the last preceding regular re-
newal date. Payment of the delinquency fee will not be nec-
essary if within 60 days of the license expiration date the
licensee files with the department an application for inactive
status.

                          CHAPTER 1329
    An act to add Section 31800.5 to the Government             Code,
                 relating to county retirement.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Piled with
                  Secretary oi State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31800.5 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   31800.5. "Whenever pursuant to the provisions of this
article federal old age and survivors insurance provisions of
the Social Security Act have been integrated as to members
employed by a county or district, the relationship may be
converted to a supplementation system under which the social
security benefits shall be in addition to unintegrated retire-
ment benefits. The conversion shall take place when the gov-
erning body of the county or district adopts by majority vote,
a resolution providing that the conversion shall take place;
provided, however, the resolution shall have received prior
approval by majority affirmative vote of eligible members
employed by the county or district in a referendum conducted
in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 (commencing
with Section 22300), Chapter 2, P a r t 4, Division 5 of Title 2
of this code. The conversion shall take place and become fully
effective and operative on the date specified in the resolution.
   I n the event that the employees of the county or district
are divided into more than one coverage group for purposes
2676                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     TQ^. 1 3 3 0

of the Social Security Act, the conversion may be with respect
to all coverage groups or one or more coverage groups as the
governing board may determine in the resolution.


                         CHAPTER 1330
        An act to add Section 16351.5 to the Government
                  Code, relating to state funds.
           [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 16351.5 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   16351.5. The unexpended balance in any appropriation for
capital outlay heretofore or hereafter made payable from each
special fund which the Director of Finance, with the approval
of the State Public "Works Board, determines not to be re-
quired for expenditure pursuant to the appropriation, may be
transferred on order of the Director of Finance to the unap-
propriated surplus of the special fund from which the appro-
priation was originally made.


                         C H A P T E R 1331
An act to amend Sections 25601.1 and 25851.1 of the Education
  Code, relating to blind and deaf pupils and declaring the
  urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 25601.1 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   25601.1. On or before July 15, the superintendent of each
California School for the Deaf shall report in writing to the
governing board of each school district of residence the name of
each pupil and the number of days attended by each pupil
during the fiscal year. For each such pupil in attendance at a
California School for the Deaf, under the provisions of this
chapter, the school district of residence shall annually pay to
the State Department of Education an amount determined by
(1) dividing the income credited to the general fund of the
school district from the levy of the district tax rate, exclusive
of taxes levied under Sections 1822.2, 1825, 16633, 16635,
16645.9, 19443, 19619, 20801, and 22101, by the average daily
attendance of the school district, and (2) multiplying the
                    1969
Ch. 13311                  REGULAR SESSION                  2677

quotient obtained by the ratio that the number of days the
pupil attended the school for the deaf bears to the number
of days the school for the deaf was in session. The payment
to the State Department of Education by the school district
of residence shall be made by the September 30 following
the end of the fiscal year of attendance and credited by the
State Controller to the current appropriation for the support
and maintenance of the appropriate school for the deaf.
   For determining the school district responsible under the
provisions of this section for making the payment when the
pupil resides in other than a unified school district, pupils 15
years of age or older as of September 1 of each fiscal year shall
be considered a resident of the high school district, and pupils
14 years of age or under as of September 1 shall be considered
a resident of the elementary district.
   The State Controller shall withhold from the second prin-
cipal apportionment of the fiscal year following the year of
attendance the amount from any school district which has not
been paid to the State Department of Education by the time
of such apportionment, the amount due on account of the at-
tendance of pupils of the district at the California Schools for
the Deaf as reported to the Controller. The Controller shall
transfer the amount withheld to, or in augmentation of, the
appropriate Department of Education support appropriation,
as designated by the department.
   SEC. 2. Section 25851.1 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   25851.1. On or before July 15, the Superintendent of the
California School for the Blind shall report in writing to the
governing board of each school district of residence the name of
each pupil and the number of days attended by each pupil
during the fiscal year. For each such pupil in attendance at
the California School for the Blind, under the provisions of
this chapter, the school district of residence shall annually pay
to the State Department of Education an amount determined
by (1) dividing the income credited to the general fund of the
school district from the levy of the district tax rate, exclusive
of taxes levied under Sections 1822.2, 1825, 16633, 16635,
16645.9, 19443, 19619, 20801, and 22101, by the average daily
attendance of the school district, and (2) multiplying the
quotient obtained by the ratio that the number of days
the pupil attended the school for the blind bears to the num-
ber of days the school for the blind was in session. The pay-
ment to the State Department of Education by the school
district of residence shall be made by the September 30 follow-
ing the end of the fiscal year of attendance and credited by the
State Controller to the current appropriation for the support
and maintenance of the school for the blind.
   For determining the school district responsible under the
provisions of this section for making the payment when the
pupil resides in other than a unified school district, pupils 15
years of age or older as of September 1 of each fiscal year shall
2678               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [CJ1_ ]^32

be considered a resident of the high school district, and pupils
14 years of age or under as of September 1 shall be considered
a resident of the elementary district.
   The State Controller shall withhold from the second prin-
cipal apportionment of the fiscal year following the year of
attendance the amount from any school district which has not
been paid to the State Department of Education by the time
of such apportionment, the amount due on account of the at-
tendance of pupils of the district at the California School for
the Blind as reported to the Controller. The Controller shall
transfer the amount withheld to, or in augmentation of, the
appropriate Department of Education support appropriation,
as designated by the department.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety
within the meaning of Article I V of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
   I t is essential that this act take effect immediately so that
the provisions of this bill may apply to payments due in the
1968-69 fiscal year

                        CHAPTEE 1332
An act to amend Section 205.5 of, and to add Section 205.8
  to, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to veterans'
  exemptions.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 205.5 of the Eevenue and Taxation
 Code is amended to read:
   205.5. (a) There is exempt from taxation property, con-
stituting the home, of every resident of this state who is a
veteran as specified in Section 1^ of Article X I I I of the
Constitution, and who, by reason of a permanent and total
service-connected disability incurred in such military or naval
service due to the loss, or loss of use, as the result of amputa-
tion, ankylosis, progressive muscular dystrophies, or paralysis,
of both lower extremities, such as to preclude locomotion with-
out the aid of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair, has
received pecuniary assistance from the government of the
United States in the acquisition of a home with special fixtures
or movable facilities made necessary by the nature of the dis-
ability.
   (b) Where such a person, such a person and his spouse,
or his widow, sells or otherwise disposes of such property,
constituting the home, and thereafter acquires, with or with-
out assistance from the government of the United States, any
                    1969
Ch. 13321                  REGULAR SESSION                   2679

other property which such person, such person and his spouse,
or his widow, occupies habitually as a home, the exemption
allowed pursuant to this section shall apply to such other
property.
   (c) No person shall be eligible for such exemption unless He
was a resident of California at the time of his entry upon mili-
tary or naval service, or unless he has resided in this state for
five years out of the nine years immediately preceding the date
of his application for the exemption, or unless he was a resi-
dent of California at the effective date of this section.
   (d) This exemption includes the home of such a person
owned in either joint, common or community interest with his
or her spouse. This exemption includes the home of a widow
of such a person acquired as described in subdivision (a).
   (e) The exemption granted to any such person or any such
person and his or her spouse or to the widow of such a person
shall not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) and shall not
extend to more than one home.
   (f) An exemption granted to a claimant in accordance with
the provisions of this section shall be in lieu of any other prop-
erty tax exemption to which the claimant may be entitled, and
no property tax exemption may be claimed by any other per-
son with respect to the same home for which an exemption has
been granted under the provisions of this section.
   (g) The exemption granted to the widow of such person
shall cease upon her remarriage.
   SEC. 2. Section 205.8 is added to the Eevenue and Taxation
Code, to read:
   205.8. (a) There is exempt from taxation, in whole or in
part, the property, constituting a home, of every resident of
this state who, by reason of his military or naval service, is
qualified for the exemption provided in Section 1£ of Article
X I I I of the Constitution, and who, by reason of a permanent
and total service-connected disability incurred in such mili-
tary or naval service is blind in both eyes with visual acuity
of 5/200 or less. This exemption shall not extend to more than
one home nor exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) for any
person or for any person and his spouse. This exemption shall
be in lieu of the exemption provided in Section 205.5 and Sec-
tion 205.7.
   (b) The exemption provided by this section applies only
to the home of such a person which is owned by a corporation
of which he is a shareholder, the rights of shareholding in
which entitle him to possession of a home owned by the cor-
poration. The exemption provided by this section shall be
shown on the local roll and shall reduce the assessed value
of such corporation. Notwithstanding any provision of law or
articles of incorporation or bylaws of such corporation to the
contrary, it is the intent of the Legislature that any reduction
of property taxes paid by such corporation shall reflect an
equal reduction in any charges by such corporation to the
2680               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     m j ^ J333

veteran who by reason of his qualifying under subdivision
 (a), made possible such reduction for such corporation.
   (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2 (commenc-
ing with Section 251) of Chapter 1 of this part, or Section
15606 of the Government Code, the assessor shall have ex-
clusive authority to prescribe the procedure for making an
application under this section. The exemption shall be granted
under this section upon determination by the assessor that
the person claiming the exemption meets the requirements of
this section.
   SEC. 3. This act shall become operative only in the event
that Senate Constitutional Amendment No. 29 of the 1969
Eegular Session is adopted by the people, in which case it
shall become operative on the date such amendment is adopted
by the people.

                        CHAPTER 1333
  An act to add Section 655 to the Business and Professions
              Code, relating to the healing arts.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
    SECTION 1. Section 655 is added to the Business and Pro-
 fessions Code, to read:
    655. No person licensed under Chapter 7 (commencing
 with Section 3000) of this division may have any membership,
proprietary interest, coownership, landlord-tenant relation-
 ship, or any profit-sharing arrangement in any form, directly
or indirectly, either by stock ownership, interlocking directors,
trusteeship, mortgage, trust deed, or otherwise, (a) with any
person licensed under Chapter 5.5 (commencing with Section
2550) of this division to whom patients, clients or customers
are referred by such person licensed under Chapter 7 (com-
mencing with Section 3000), or who refers patients, clients, or
customers to such person licensed under Chapter 7 (commenc-
ing with Section 3000) or (b) with any person who is engaged
in the manufacture, sale, or distribution to physicians and
surgeons, optometrists, or dispensing opticians of lenses,
frames, optical supplies, optometric appliances or devices or
kindred products.
   The provisions of subdivision (b) do not apply to any cor-
poration all of the shares of which are, and have been, wholly
owned for more than one year immediately preceding April 8,
1969, by persons licensed under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 3000) of this division or by any spouse of such person
or to any person so licensed if such corporation or licentiate
has been engaged in the manufacture, sale, or distribution to
physicians and surgeons, optometrists, or dispensing opticians
                       1969
Ch. 13351                     REGULAR SESSION                       2681

of lenses, frames, optical supplies, optometric appliances or
devices, or kindred products in the State of California con-
tinuously for more than one year immediately preceding April
8, 1969. That exception shall be effective as to any corporation
so owned only so long as all shares thereof continue to be
wholly owned by any person licensed under Chapter 7 (com-
mencing with Section 3000) of this division or his spouse or
issue, provided that such spouse or issue are not persons
within the definitions and limitations set forth in subdivision
(a) or (b).
   Any violation of this section constitutes a misdemeanor as to
such person licensed under Chapter 7 (commencing with Sec-
tion 3000) of this division and as to any and all persons,
whether or not so licensed under this division, who participate
with such licensed person in a violation of any provision of
this section.
   SEC. 2. It is not the intention of the Legislature to de-
stroy any business relationships which might have existed in
this state when the proposal to regulate this area was first
proposed to the Legislature.


                           CHAPTER 1334
            An act to add Section 40309.5 to the Vehicle
                    Code, relating to infractions.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION. 1. Section 40309.5 is added to the Vehicle Code,
to read:
   40309.5. Every written notice of a violation of an ordi-
nance of a city or county relating to parking offenses shall be
accompanied by a written notice of the bail due for that viola-
tion and the address of the person authorized to receive a de-
posit of bail, to whom payments thereof may be sent.


                              CHAPTER 1335
An act to amend Sections 31243 and 31247 of the                 Education
           Code, relating to graduate fellowships.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section           31243 of    the   Education      Code   is
amended to read:
2682               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     fCh. 1336

   31243. Awards shall be for one academic year of graduate
study, and may be renewed for up to three additional years if
necessary for the student's degree objective which will qualify
him as a prospective college teacher and if he is making nor-
mal progress toward a degree as determined by the commis-
sion. Awards of graduate fellowships shall be made upon a
competitive basis. The commission may take into account such
factors as the following:
   (a) Grades at the undergraduate level in the subject field
in which the student wishes to do graduate work.
   (b) Grades in the total undergraduate program.
   (e) Aptitude for graduate work in the subject field, insofar
as it is measurable.
   (d) General aptitude for graduate study, insofar as it is
measurable.
   (e) Financial need of the student as an individual, inde-
pendent in his own right.
   SEC. 2. Section 31247 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   31247. There shall be graduate fellowships, including re-
newals, for each academic year equal in number to 2 percent
of the total number of baccalaureate degrees awarded during
the next preceding academic year by colleges and universities
located in California and accredited by the Western Associa-
tion of Schools and Colleges. The amount of each award shall
be calculated according to the following stipulations based
upon the applicant's financial need, independent in his own
right, not to exceed full cost of tuition and regular fees for
one year at the institution which the student attends.


                        CHAPTER 1336
An act to add Chapter 3.4 (commencing with Section 31226)
  to Division 22 of the Education Code, relating to the State
  College Educational Opportunity  Program.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 3.4 (commencing with Section 31226)
is added to Division 22 of the Education Code, to read:

        CHAPTER 3.4. STATE COLLEGE EDUCATIONAL
                  OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM

  31226. There is a state student assistance program which
shall be known as the State College Educational Opportunity
Program. It shall be the purpose of the program to provide
grants and, where appropriate, educational assistance for un-
dergraduate study at California State Colleges to students
                     1969
C h . 13361                 REGULAR SESSION                  2683

who are economically disadvantaged, but who display poten-
tial for success in accredited curricula offered by the Califor-
nia State Colleges.
   For the purposes of this chapter, " t r u s t e e s " means the
Trustees of the California State Colleges.
   31226.1. State College Educational Opportunity Program
grants shall be awarded to graduates of high schools who are
residents of this state, to veterans of the armed forces who
are residents of this state, and to nominees of state agencies
authorized by the trustees to nominate candidates who are
residents of this state for participation in programs authorized
by this chapter. The trustees shall determine eligibility for
grants awarded pursuant to this chapter. Such grants may be
granted and renewed according to standards set by the trustees
until the student has received a baccalaureate degree or has
completed four academic years, whichever occurs first. I n spe-
cial circumstances, such as illness or military service, or family
hardship, the trustees may renew the grant beyond the fourth
year of study, provided the student has not received a bacca-
laureate degree. "When the recipient is an enrollee in a special
educational opportunity program approved by the trustees, for
the purposes of this chapter, the state college sponsoring the
program shall receive from the trustees reimbursement of up
to sixty dollars ($60) per month per enrollee up to 12 months
support.
   31226.2. Grants shall be provided for students who display
potential for success in accredited curricula offered by the
California State Colleges, but lack the necessary funds to pay
for tuition, books, and room and board, provided such students
meet the standards of the state college which they are attend-
ing or the requirements for the special admissions program
established by the trustees.
   31226.3. Grants awarded pursuant to this chapter shall be
in an amount sufficient to pay the costs of a student, during
his course of study, for tuition, books, and room and board
 in accordance with his needs as shall be determined by the
trustees. No student shall be awarded a grant in excess of
seven hundred dollars ($700) per academic year.
   31226.4. Each high school in this state shall nominate to
the trustees students it deems deserving of the grants made
available under this chapter. The trustees shall compile a list
of students so nominated from which it may select students
for grants in accordance with standards set by the trustees
pursuant to this chapter. The Veterans Administration and
state agencies authorized to nominate candidates for participa-
tion in programs authorized by this chapter may nominate
such other candidates to the trustees whom they deem eligible
for such grants.
   31226.5. Eecords of the academic progress of each student
attending college under a grant shall be kept by the trustees
in order that the program created by this chapter may be
evaluated.
2684                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Qfo 1 3 3 7

   31226.6. Bach state college may submit plans for a special
educational opportunity program for approval by the trustees.
Bach program qualifying shall be authorized a program di-
rector and may be authorized such special qualified counselors
and advisors and such related operating and equipment sup-
port as is appropriate.
   31226.7. This chapter shall be known as the State College
Educational Opportunity Act.
   SEC. 2. Any existing state funds appropriated by the Leg-
islature for expenditure for scholarships pursuant to Chapter
3 (commencing with Section 31201) of Division 22 of the Ed-
ucation Code shall not be available for state college educa-
tional opportunity grants authorized by this act.
   SEC. 3. All funds appropriated pursuant to Item 116.5 of
the Budget Act of 1969 shall be expended pursuant to the
provisions of Chapter 3.4 (commencing with Section 31226)
of Division 22 of the Education Code.


                         CHAPTER 1337
   An act to amend Sections 525 and 526 of the Business and
            Professions Code, relating to eyeglasses.
           [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 525 of the Business and Professions
 Code is amended to read:
    525. No dispensing optician, optometrist, or physician and
 surgeon shall dispense, prescribe, or sell any eyeglasses for use
 of a person whose sight is limited to one eye, a person who is a
member of the California Highway Patrol or of a county sher-
iff's office, a city policeman, a person who is a fireman em-
ployed by the fire department of a city, county, or fire protec-
tion district and who normally wears such glasses for on-duty
employment, or a person who is under 18 years of age, unless
such eyeglasses are made with case-hardened lenses, with lenses
made of laminated glass, with lenses made of resin material,
or with lenses made of any other material resistant to shat-
tering and which shall not be installed in frames manufactured
of flammable material.
   SEC. 2. Section 526 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   526. A dispensing optician, optometrist, or physician and
surgeon shall not be subject to disciplinary action under this
article unless he is informed by the person obtaining the eye-
glasses, or of his own personal knowledge knows, that the
eyeglasses are for a person whose sight is limited to one eye,
a person who is a member of the California Highway Patrol
                       1969
Ch. 1338]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2685

or of a county sheriff's office, a city policeman, or a fireman
employed by the fire department of a city, county, or fire pro-
tection district, or a person who is under 18 years of age.
   A dispensing optician, optometrist or physician and surgeon
is not required under this article to make any independent in-
vestigation of the occupation of the person for whom eyeglasses
are intended or as to whether or not the sight of such person
is limited to one eye.

                          CHAPTBE 1338
An act to amend Section 1680 of, and to add Section 1656 to,
  the Business and Professions Code, relating to radiation
  safety.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1656 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   1656. On or after January 1, 1972, every person licensed
to practice dentistry in the state shall certify to the board
that he or any person employed by him, who operates dental
radiographic equipment, has passed an examination in radia-
tion safety conducted by the board or has passed a licensing
examination as a dentist or dental hygienist deemed by the
board as equivalent to the radiation safety examination.
   An examination fee, in such amount as the board may de-
termine, but not to exceed ten dollars ($10), shall be required
of each applicant. Each successful applicant shall receive an
acknowledgment of compliance from the board.
   SEC. 2. Section 1680 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   1680. Unprofessional conduct is defined to be any one of
the following:
   (1) The employment of persons known as cappers or
steerers, to obtain business.
   (2) The obtaining of any fee by fraud or misrepresentation.
   (3) The willful betrayal of professional secrets.
   (4) The employment directly or indirectly of any student
or suspended or unlicensed dentist to practice dentistry as de-
fined in this chapter.
    (5) The aiding or abetting of any unlicensed person to
practice dentistry.
    (6) The aiding or abetting of a licensed person to practice
 dentistry unlawfully.
    (7) Habitual intemperance.
    (8) Gross immorality.
    (9) The use of any false, assumed or fictitious name, either
 as an individual, firm, corporation or otherwise, or any name
2686               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Q}1_ 1 3 3 9

other than the name under which he is licensed to practice, in
advertising or in any other manner indicating that he is prac-
ticing or will practice dentistry.
   (10) The practicing or accepting or receiving any commis-
sion or the rebating in any form or manner on fees for pro-
fessional services, radiograms, prescriptions or other services
or articles supplied to patients.
   (11) The making use of any advertising statements of a
character tending to deceive or mislead the public.
   (12) The advertising of professional superiority or the
performance of professional services in a superior manner.
   (13) The advertising of definite or fixed prices for profes-
sional services.
   (14) The use of advertising containing as a part thereof the
representation of a tooth, teeth, bridgework or any portion of
the human head.
   (15) The employing or the making use of solicitors.
   (16) The advertising of any free dental work, or free ex-
amination.
   (17) The advertising to guarantee any dental service, or
to perform any dental operation painlessly.
   (18) The willful violation of any of the provisions of law
regulating the dispensing and administration of dangerous
drugs or narcotics, or the willful violation of any of the pro-
visions of this chapter except the payment of fees.
   (19) The failure to certify, or the false certification, to the
board on or after January 1, 1972, that he or any person em-
ployed by the licentiate, who operates dental radiographic
equipment, has passed an examination in radiation safety con-
ducted by the board, or the equivalent of such examination as
required by Section 1656; or the permitting of any person em-
ployed by him to operate dental radiographic equipment who
has not passed an examination or the equivalent of such exam-
ination in radiation safety as required by Section 1656.


                         CHAPTER 1339
An act to add Section 4107.1 to the Welfare and Institutions
  Code, relating to state lands, and declaring the urgency
  thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4107.1 is added to the "Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:
   4107.1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4104, the
Director of General Services, with the consent of the Depart-
ment of Mental Hygiene, may grant to the County of Napa a
                       1969
Ch. 1340]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2687

right-of-way for public road purposes over the northerly
portion of the Napa State Hospital lands for the widening of
Imola Avenue between Penny Lane and Fourth Avenue, upon
such terms and conditions as the Director of General Services
may deem for the best interests of the state.
    SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
    Imola Avenue between Penny Lane and Fourth Avenue is
a danger to the public safety and in order to correct this
condition as soon as possible and avoid losing the construction
season the County of Napa must secure a right-of-way over
the state lands mentioned in this act to widen such road.
I t is, therefore, necessary that this act go into immediate effect.


                          C H A P T E E 1340
An act to amend Sections 13000, 13001, 13002, 13004, and
  13005 of, and to add Sections 13005.5 and 13008 to, the
  Vehicle Code, relating to identification cards.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13000 of the Vehicle Code is amended
to read:
   13000. Any person 18 years of age or older who does not
have a valid California driver's license may be issued an identi-
fication card by the department certified by the registrant and
attested by the department as to true name, correct age, and
other identifying data as the department may require. Every
application for an identification card shall be signed and veri-
fied by the applicant before a person authorized to administer
oaths.
   SEC. 2. Section 13001 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   13001. The department shall issue an identification card
only to a person who does not have a valid California driver's
license, and only upon the furnishing of a birth certificate, or
 a registration certificate issued under the Federal Selective
 Service Act, or social security number, or a certification of
 naturalization issued by the United States Department of
 Justice, and other bona fide documentary evidence of the age
and identity of such person, as the department may require.
   SEC. 3. Section 13002 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:

    85—1954
2688              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^   134Q

   13002. Every identification card shall expire, unless can-
celed earlier, on the fourth birthday of the applicant following
the date of original issue. Renewal of any identification card
shall be made for a term which shall expire on the fourth
birthday of the applicant following expiration of the identifi-
 cation card renewed, unless canceled earlier. Any application
 for renewal received after 90 days after expiration of the
 identification card shall be considered the same as an applica-
tion for an original identification card.
   SEC. 4. Section 13004 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   13004. I t is unlawful for any person:
    (a) To display or cause or permit to be displayed or have
in his possession any canceled, fictitious, fraudulently altered,
or fraudulently obtained identification card.
    (b) To lend his identification card to any other person or
knowingly permit the use thereof by another.
    (c) To display or represent any identification card not is-
sued to him as being his card.
    (d) To permit any unlawful use of an identification card
issued to him.
    (e) To do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act re-
quired by this article.
    (f) To photograph, photostat, duplicate, or in any way re-
produce any identification card or facsimile thereof in such a
manner that it could be mistaken for a valid identification
card, or to display or have in his possession any such photo-
graph, photostat, duplicate, reproduction, or facsimile unless
authorized by the provisions of this code.
   SEC. 5. Section 13005 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   13005. The identification card shall resemble in appear-
ance, so far as is practicable, a driver's license issued pursu-
ant to this code. It shall adequately describe the registrant,
bear his or her picture, and bear the following: "State of
California"—"Identification Card No.                    "—"This
card is provided solely for the purpose of establishing that the
bearer described on the card was not the holder of a California
driver's license as of the date of issuance of this card." The
identification card shall be sealed in transparent plastic or
similar substance.
   SEC. 6. Section 13005.5 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
read:
   13005.5. An identification card issued to any person under
the age of 21 years shall expire on the 21st birthday of such
person and shall bear on the face of the card a photograph of
the person in profile, an overprint of the word '' minor'' placed
diagonally across the card, and a statement to the effect that
the card expires on the 21st birthday of the person to whom it
is issued. An identification card issued to any person 21 years
of age or over shall bear a fullface photograph of the person.
                       1969
Ch. 1341]                     REGULAR SESSION                    2689

    SEC. 7. Section 13008 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
read:
    13008. When used in reference to an identification card,
'' cancellation'' means that an identification card is terminated
without prejudice and must be surrendered. Cancellation of
card may be made when a card has been issued through error
or when voluntarily surrendered to the department.
   SEC. 8. Section 13002 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
    13002. Every identification card shall expire, unless can-
celed earlier, on the sixth birthday of the applicant following
the date of original issue. Renewal of any identification card
shall be made for a term which shall expire on the sixth birth-
day of the applicant following expiration of the identification
card renewed, unless surrendered earlier. Any application for
renewal received after 90 days after expiration of the identi-
fication card shall be considered the same as an application for
an original identification card. The department shall, at the
end of six years and six months after the issuance or renewal
of an identification card, destroy any record of the card if it
has expired and has not been renewed.
   SEC. 9. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 13002 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this
bill and S.B. 1030 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 13002 in the form set forth
in Section 8 of this act. Therefore, in the event S.B. 1030 is
enacted and amends Section 13002, Section 8 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 13002 as
amended by S.B. 1030 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 13002 of the Vehicle Code as amended by Section 3
of this act is repealed.

                          CHAPTER 1341
An act to amend the heading of Article 14 (commencing with
  Section 36121) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 14 of, and
  to add Section 36123 to, and to repeal Sections 36121, 36122,
  36123, and 36124, and Article 15 (commencing with Section
  36151) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 14 of, the Agricul-
  tural Code, relating to milk and milk products.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 19 69. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The heading of Article 14 (commencing with
Section 36121) of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 14 of the
Agricultural Code is amended to read:
2690               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQJ1_ 1342

             Article 14. Degrading or Exclusion
   SEC. 2. Section 36121 of the Agricultural Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 36122 of the Agricultural Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 36123 of the Agricultural Code is repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 36123 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   36123. Whenever two of the last four consecutive bacteria
counts, coliform determinations or cooling temperatures taken
 on separate days exceed the limit of the standard for market
milk or products of market milk or both the health authority
or director shall send a notice thereof to the producer or dis-
tributor concerned. This notice shall be in effect for so long
as two of the last four consecutive samples exceed the limit of
the standard. An additional sample shall be taken within 14
days of the sending of such notice, but not before the lapse of
three days. Immediate degrade of the market milk or product
of market milk or exclusion of the market milk or product of
 market milk shall be instituted whenever the standard is vio-
lated by three of the last five bacteria counts, coliform de-
terminations or cooling temperatures.
   Violations of bacterial, coliform and cooling temperature
standards shall be followed promptly by inspection to deter-
mine and correct the cause. This inspection shall be made im-
 mediately when the notice required by this section is sent.
   Samples may be taken from consecutive milking at the pro-
 ducer level and from consecutive lots of processed products
 and shall be so taken when requested by the producer or proc-
essor.
   Eeinstatement of the market milk or products of market
milk shall be made when two consecutive samples taken within
a seven-day period again meet the standard. For the purpose
of this section sampling for reinstatement and the new degrade
series shall begin with the first sample taken after degrade.
   SEC. 6. Section 36124 of the Agricultural Code is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Article 15 (commencing with Section 36151) of
Chapter 2 of Part 2 of Division 14 of the Agricultural Code
is repealed.

                        CHAPTER 1342
An act to amend Sections 6702, 6704, and 6713 of the Financial
         Code, relating to savings and loan associations.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6702 of the Financial Code is amended
to read:
   6702. An association may invest in, hold, buy, and sell the
following:
                    1969
Ch. 1342]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2691

   (a) Real property used or to he used primarily as the prin-
cipal office or branch of the association, and real property used
or to be used primarily as a service office of the association or
an undivided interest in real property used or to be used pri-
marily as a service office or office of the association and of
other associations owning the other undivided interests in such
real property. As used in this subdivision the term real prop-
erty includes (1) real property in reasonably close proximity
to a principal, branch, or service office used or to be used
primarily as a parking lot in connection with the operations of
such office and (2) structures or buildings located on land
owned in fee or held under a lease or sublease by the associa-
tion with an unexpired term of 25 years at the date of execu-
tion by the association of such lease or sublease. Except as pro-
vided in Section 6703 no association shall invest in such real
property or in such structures or buildings more than one-half
of the sum of its aggregate of the following •.
   (1) Issued and outstanding guarantee stock.
   (2) Paid-in surplus.
   (3) Federal insurance reserve.
   (4) Loan reserve.
   (5) Any surplus and reserve which is not subject to distri-
bution to the shareholders or stockholders except upon dis-
solution or liquidation.
   (b) Furniture, fixtures, furnishings, equipment and lease-
hold improvements necessary or proper for the business of the
association, or for use in connection with properties owned by
or securing loans of the association. Leasehold improvements
as used herein shall not include structures or buildings re-
ferred to in subdivision (a) of this section. Except as provided
in Section 6703 no association shall invest in furniture, fix-
tures, furnishings, equipment, and leasehold improvements as
defined herein for its offices more than 30 percent of the sum
of its aggregate of the following:
   (1) Issued and outstanding guarantee stock.
   (2) Paid-in surplus.
   (3) Federal insurance reserve.
   (4) Loan reserve.
   (5) Any surplus and reserve which is not subject to distri-
bution to the shareholders or stockholders except upon dis-
solution or liquidation.
   (c) United States government bonds and treasury certifi-
cates, or any bonds, debentures, notes, or other obligations
guaranteed by the United States of America.
   (d) Bonds, debentures, notes, and other securities issued
or guaranteed in whole or in part by any Federal Home Loan
Bank, or the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion, or other similar federal agency.
   (e) Consolidated Federal Home Loan Bank bonds, deben-
tures, or notes.
2(J92              SttAtfUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [Cft. 1342

    (f) Bonds of this state or of any flood control and water
conservation districts or any zone thereof having an assessed
valuation on taxable real property of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000), county, city and county, city, metropoli-
tan water district, municipal utility district, any special dis-
trict established by and within any municipal utility district,
transit district, rapid transit district, metropolitan transit
 authority, flood control district, or school district of the State
of California.
    (g) Bonds, other securities, and bankers' acceptances which
 are expressly authorized as legal investments for or purchase
by savings banks in this state.
    (h) Bonds issued by any railroad corporation or any public
utility corporation substantially all of the properties of which
 are located in the United States of America. Eailway corpora-
tions and public utility corporations, as used in this subdivi-
 sion, do not include street railway corporations. The purchase
 of all bonds pursuant to the sole authority of this subdivision
shall be first approved by the commissioner.
    (i) Stock, shares, debentures and bonds of any International
 Home Loan Bank which may hereafter be incorporated by
 authority of an act of Congress.
    (j) California street improvement bonds. The purchase of
 all bonds pursuant to the sole authority of this subdivision
 shall be first approved by the commissioner and no association
 at any one time shall have invested pursuant to the sole au-
 thority of this subdivision an aggregate amount in excess of
 2 percent of the then total assets of the association.
    (k) Stock issued by any Federal Home Loan Bank or other
similar federal agency of which the association is eligible to
be a member.
    (I) Bonds and other securities as provided in Division 11
of this code.
    (m) Stocks, bonds, debentures, participations, and other obli-
gations of or issued by the Federal National Mortgage Associa-
tion and the Government National Mortgage Association. No
association at any one time shall have invested pursuant to the
sole authority of this subdivision an aggregate amount in ex-
cess of 5 percent of the then total assets of the association.
    (n) Loans and interests in loans on the security of real
property located in foreign countries guaranteed by an agency
of the federal or state government; and capital stock, obliga-
tions, notes, and other securities of any thrift institution
organized under the laws of a foreign country and engaged
in the business of making loans on the security of real estate
in such country subject to regulations of the commissioner.
No association shall make any investment pursuant to this
subdivision if its aggregate outstanding investment under this
subdivision would thereupon exceed 1 percent of the then total
assets of the association.
                       1969
Ch. 1343]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2693

   (0) Subject to the rules and regulations of the commis-
sioner, securities guaranteed pursuant to Section 306(g) of
the National Housing Act, as amended.
   (p) Subject to the rules and regulations of the commis-
sioner, stock issued by a corporation authorized to be created
pursuant to Title I X of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1968, and may make investments in a partnership, lim-
ited partnership, or joint venture formed pursuant to Section
907(a) or 907(c) of such act.
   SEC. 2. Section 6704 of the Financial Code is amended to
read:
   6704. An association may enter into or assume leases cover-
ing real property used or to be used in connection with the
business of such association. No association shall enter into or
assume leases providing in the aggregate for rental payments
in any one year in excess of five percent (5%) of the sum of
the aggregate of the following:
   (1) Issued and outstanding guarantee stock.
   (2) Paid-in surplus.
   (3) Federal insurance reserve.
   (4) Loan reserve.
   (5) Any surplus and reserve which is not subject to distri-
bution to the shareholders or stockholders except upon disso-
lution or liquidation, after deducting from such total any
amounts invested in real property pursuant to subdivision (a)
of Section 6702.
   SEC. 3. Section 6713 of the Financial Code is amended to
read:
   6713. No association shall borrow money except as author-
ized by this part, provided that, in addition to borrowings
otherwise authorized as provided in this part, and to such ex-
tent as the commissioner approves by regulation or advice in
writing, an association may borrow, give security, and issue
such notes, bonds, debentures, or other obligations or other
securities authorized by the commissioner.


                          CHAPTER 1343
            An act making an appropriation to support
                    Tahoe regional planning.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Piled with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law,
the appropriation of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) to the
Tahoe Regional Planning Agency provided by Section 6.1 of
Chapter 988 of the Statutes of 1968 is reappropriated for the
purpose provided in said appropriation; and in addition, shall
be available for expenditure by the California Tahoe Regional
2694               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     r ^ J ^ J 344

Planning Agency until such time as the Tahoe Regional Plan-
ning Agency commences operation at which time the unex-
pended balance of that amount shall revert to the Tahoe Re-
gional Planning Agency.

                        CHAPTER 1344
An act to repeal Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 55001)
  of Division 20 of the Agricultural Code, relating to grain
  warehouses.
         [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
               Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 55001) of
Division 20 of the Agricultural Code is repealed.


                        C H A P T E R 1345
An act to amend Sections 1036 and 1904 of, and to add Section
  1904.1 to, the Public Utilities Code, relating to the Public
  Utilities Commission.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1036 of the Public Utilities Code is
amended to read:
   1036. Each application for a certificate of public conven-
ience and necessity made under the provisions of this article
shall be accompanied by a fee of seventy-five dollars ($75),
unless the applicant is already operating in the immediate
vicinity under the jurisdiction of the commission.
   SEC. 2. Section 1904 of the Public Utilities Code is
amended to read:
   1904. The commission shall also charge and collect the fol-
lowing fees:
   (a) Except as otherwise provided in Sections 1010, 1036,
1064 and 1064.1, for filing each application for a certificate of
public convenience and necessity, or for the mortgage, lease,
transfer, or assignment thereof, seventy-five dollars ($75).
    (b) For a certificate authorizing an issue of bonds, notes,
or other evidences of indebtedness, two dollars ($2) for each
one thousand dollars ($1,000) of the face value of the au-
thorized issue or fraction thereof up to one million dollars
 ($1,000,000), one dollar ($1) for each one thousand dollars
 ($1,000) over one million dollars ($1,000,000) and up to ten
million dollars ($10,000,000), and fifty cents ($0.50) for each
                    1969
Ch. 1345]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2695

one thousand dollars ($1,000) over ten million dollars ($10,-
000,000), with a minimum fee in any case of fifty dollars
 ($50). No fee need be paid on such portion of any such issue
as may be used to guarantee, take over, refund, discharge, or
retire any bond, note, or other evidence of indebtedness on
which a fee has theretofore been paid to the commission. If the
commission modified the amount of the issue requested in any
case and the applicant thereupon elects not to avail itself of
the commission's authorization, no fee need be paid.
   SEC. 3. Section 1904 of the Public Utilities Code is
amended to read:
   1904. The commission shall also charge and collect the fol-
lowing fees:
    (a) Except as otherwise provided in Sections 1010, 1010.1,
1036, 1064 and 1064.1, for filing each application for a cer-
tificate of public convenience and necessity, or for the mort-
gage, lease, transfer, or assignment thereof, seventy-five dol-
lars ($75).-
    (b) For a certificate authorizing an issue of bonds, notes,
or other evidences of indebtedness, two dollars ($2) for each
one thousand dollars ($1,000) of the face value of the author-
ized issue or fraction thereof up to one million dollars ($1,000,-
000) one dollar ($1) for each one thousand dollars ($1,000)
over one million dollars ($1,000,000) and up to ten million
dollars ($10,000,000), and fifty cents ($0.50) for each one
thousand dollars ($1,000) over ten million dollars ($10,000,-
000), with a minimum fee in any case of fifty dollars ($50).
No fee need be paid on such portion of any such issue as may
be used to guarantee, take over, refund, discharge, or retire
any bond, note, or other evidence of indebtedness on which a
fee has theretofore been paid to the commission. If the commis-
sion modified the amount of the issue requested in any case
and the applicant thereupon elects not to avail itself of the
commission's authorization, no fee need be paid.
    SEC. 4. Section 1904.1 is added to the Public Utilities Code,
to read:
   1904.1. The commission shall also charge and collect the
following fees:
   For a certificate authorizing an issue of stock, two dollars
 ($2) for each one thousand dollars ($1,000) of the authorized
issue or fraction thereof up to one million dollars ($1,000,000),
one dollar ($1) for each one thousand dollars ($1,000) over
one million dollars ($1,000,000) and up to ten million dollars
 ($10,000,000), and fifty cents ($0.50) for each one thousand
 dollars ($1,000) over ten million dollars ($10,000,000), with a
minimum fee in any case of fifty dollars ($50). If the com-
 mission modifies the amount of the issue requested in any case
 and the applicant thereupon elects not to avail itself of the
 commission's authorization, no fee need be paid.
    SEC. 5. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
 to Section 1904 of the Public Utilities Code proposed by both
2696                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      rQlx, 1346

this bill and Senate Bill No. 1077 are enacted, that both
amendments be given effect and incorporated in Section 1904
in the form set forth in Section 3 of this act. Therefore, in
the event Senate Bill No. 1077 is enacted and amends Section
1904, Section 3 of this act shall become operative at the same
time Section 1904 as amended by Senate Bill No. 1077 becomes
operative, and at that time Section 1904 of the Public Utilities
Code as amended by Section 2 of this act is repealed.


                          CHAPTBE 1346
An act to amend Sections 26131, 26225, 26275, 26290, 26656,
  and 26658 of the Water Code, relating to irrigation dis-
  tricts.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 26131 of the Water Code is amended
to read:
  26131. The certificate of sale may be in substantially the
following form, the blanks being filled to show the facts in
each case:
                     Certificate of Sale              No.
                         Irrigation District
   I, the collector of         Irrigation District, certify that on
the           day of          , 19    , after giving the required
notice, I sold to          Irrigation District, the purchaser, for
the sum of              dollars ($         ) real property in the
County of           , State of California, described as follows:
                        (Insert description.)
   This land was assessed to
   This property was sold for a delinquent assessment levied
on it in the year           by the district, and the sale price was
the sum due and unpaid on the assessment and the penalties
and costs.
   The purchaser will be entitled to a deed to the property
at any time after five years from the date of the sale unless
in the meantime the property is redeemed.
   Witness my hand and the seal of the district this            day
of           , 19___.
   (District Seal.)

                       Collector of             Irrigation District

  SEC. 2.    Section 26225 of the Water Code is amended to
read:
                     1969
Ch. 13461                   REGULAR SESSION                   2697

    26225. Property sold for delinquent assessments may be
 redeemed within five years from the date of sale, or thereafter
before a collector's deed of the property has been delivered,
by payment in lawful money of the United States to the col-
lector of the amount for which the property was sold plus a
penalty of three-fourths of 1 percent per month from the date
of sale until redemption.
   Where a collector's deed has been delivered to the district,
the period of redemption is extended until the first bid is re-
ceived for the property or until the board determines the prop-
erty is not to be sold as provided in Section 26290.
   SEC. 3. Section 26275 of the Water Code is amended to
read:
   26275. If property sold for delinquent assessments has not
been redeemed and five years have elapsed from the date of
its sale, at least 30 days prior to the end of the redemption
period the collector shall mail a notice specifying the date of
sale and advising that, unless redeemed, a collector's deed will
be issued to the property at any time after five years from the
date of sale has elapsed. The notice shall be sent by certified
mail to the last assessee of the property addressed to his last
address shown on the assessment roll. Five years after the
date of sale, and 30 days after mailing of the notice, the col-
lector, upon demand, shall deliver a collector's deed to the
property to the district or to the assignee holding the certifi-
cate of sale.
   SEC. 4. Section 26290 of the Water Code is amended to
read:
   26290. If a collector's deed for property sold for delinquent
assessments has been delivered to the district, the district shall
not sell or otherwise dispose of such property except as pro-
vided in this section. The district may sell the property, in
which case it shall sell the property at a public auction upon
having first given notice to the assessee by certified mail with
return receipt requested and notice of the sale as prescribed
by Sections 3701, 3702, and 3704 of the Revenue and Taxation
 Code.
   If the property is to be sold and is not redeemed before the
first bid is received on such property, the district shall sell the
property at public auction to the highest bidder at the time
and place fixed.
   At any time after the delivery of the collector's deed, and
before the property is sold, the board may determine by reso-
lution that the property is not to be sold, thereby terminating
the right to redemption, but at least 30 days before the adop-
tion of such a resolution the district shall give notice to the
assessee, with return receipt requested, of the time, date, and
place of the meeting at which the resolution will be considered
and state that the property may be redeemed at any time be-
fore the adoption of the resolution.
   SEC. 5. Section 26656 of the Water Code is amended to
read:
2698               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     m ^ I34.7

   26656. Lands sold for delinquent district assessments may-
be redeemed within five years from date of sale in the same
manner as the redemption of property after sale for nonpay-
ment of county taxes.
   SEC. 6. Section 26658 of the "Water Code is amended to
read:
   26658. Lands sold to the district remaining unredeemed
after five years have elapsed from the date of their sale
for delinquent district assessments shall be deeded to the dis-
trict by the county tax collector. The deed shall be substan-
tially in the form provided for collector's deeds by Section
26276 of the Water Code and shall have the same effect and
be recorded in the same manner as irrigation district's collec-
tor's deeds under the provisions of Articles 4 and 5 of Chap-
ter 6 of this part. Lands sold to the state remaining unre-
deemed after five years have elapsed from the date of their sale
for delinquent district assessments shall be deeded to the state
by the county tax collector.
   SEC. 7. I t is the intent of the Legislature that the provi-
sions of Chapter 780 of the Statutes of 1968 shall be applicable
only to collector's deeds delivered after the effective date of the
Statutes of 1968.
   SEC. 8. This act, except Section 7 thereof, shall not be
applicable to property sold for delinquent assessments prior to
the effective date of this act whether or not a collector's deed
has been delivered to the purchaser thereof.


                        CHAPTER 1347
An act to amend Sections 100 and 1391 of, and to add Section
  119.5 to, and to add Article 14.2 (commencing with Section
  1063) to Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 1 of, the Insurance
  Code, relating to insurance, and declaring the urgency
  thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 100 of the Insurance Code is amended
to read:
   100. Insurance in this state is divided into the following
classes:
    (1) Life
    (2) Fire
    (3) Marine
    (4) Title
    (5) Surety
    (6) Disability
    (7) Plate glass
                     1969
Ch. 13471                   REGULAR SESSION                     2699

     (8) Liability
     (9) "Workmen's compensation
    (10) Common carrier liability
    (11) Boiler and machinery
    (12) Burglary
    (13) Credit
    (14) Sprinkler
    (15) Team and vehicle
    (16) Automobile
    (17) Mortgage
    (18) Aircraft
    (19) Mortgage guaranty
   (19.5) Insolvency
   (20) Miscellaneous
   SEC. 2. Section 119.5 is added to the Insurance Code, to
read:
   119.5. Insolvency insurance includes insurance against loss
arising from the failure of an insolvent insurer to discharge
its obligations under its insurance policies.
   SEC. 3. Article 14.2 (commencing with Section 1063) is
added to Chapter 1 of Part 2 of Division 1 of the Insurance
Code, to read:

  Article 14.2.   California Insurance Guarantee Association
   1063. (a) "Within 60 days after the effective date of this
chapter, all insurers, including reciprocal insurers, authorized
to transact insurance in this state, except those exclusively
writing one or more of life, title, surety, disability, credit, mort-
gage, mortgage guaranty, and ocean marine insurance in this
state, shall establish the California Insurance Guarantee As-
sociation (the association). Bach such insurer, including the
State Compensation Insurance Fund, as a condition of its au-
thority to transact insurance in this state, shall participate in
the association whether established voluntarily or by order of
the commissioner after the elapse of 60 days following the
effective date of this article in accordance with rules to be
established as provided in this chapter. I t shall be the purpose
of such association to provide for each member insurer insol-
vency insurance as defined in Section 119.5.
   (b) The association shall be managed by a board of gov-
ernors, composed of nine member insurers, each of which shall
be appointed by the commissioner to serve initially for terms
of one, two, or three years and thereafter for three-year terms
so that three terms shall expire each year, and shall continue
in office until his successors shall be appointed and qualified.
At least five members of the board shall be domestic insurers.
At least three such members shall be stock insurers, and at
least three shall be nonstock insurers. The nine members shall
be representative, as nearly as possible, of the classes of in-
surance and of the kinds of insurers covered by this chapter.
In case of a vacancy for any reason on the board, the com-
2700               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfr   1347

missioner shall appoint a member insurer to fill the unexpired
term.
    (c) The association shall adopt a plan of operations, and
any amendments thereto, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter, necessary to assure the fair, reasonable, and
 equitable manner of administering the association, and to pro-
vide for such other matters as are necessary or advisable to
implement the provisions of this chapter. The plan of opera-
tions and any amendments thereto shall be subject to prior
written approval by the commissioner. All members of the
association shall adhere to the plan of operation.
   (d) If for any reason the association fails to adopt a suit-
able plan of operation within 90 days following the effective
date of this chapter, or if at any time thereafter the asso-
ciation fails to adopt suitable amendments to the plan of opera-
tion, the commissioner shall after hearing adopt and promul-
 gate such reasonable rules as are necessary or advisable to
effectuate the provisions of this chapter. Such rules shall con-
tinue in force until modified by the commissioner after hearing
or superseded by a plan of operation, adopted by the associa-
tion and approved by the commissioner.
   (e) I n accordance with its plan of operation, the association
may designate one or more of its members as a servicing facil-
ity, but a member may decline such designation. Each servicing
facility shall be reimbursed by the association for all reasonable
expenses it incurs and for all payments it makes on behalf of
the association. Each servicing facility shall have authority to
perform any functions of the association that the board of
governors lawfully may delegate to it and to do so on behalf
of and in the name of the association. The designation of serv-
icing facilities shall be subject to the approval of the com-
missioner.
   (f) The association shall have authority to borrow funds
when necessary to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
   (g) The association, either in its own name or through serv-
icing facilities, may be sued and may use the courts to assert
or defend any rights the association may have by virtue of this
chapter as reasonably necessary to fully effectuate the provi-
sions thereof.
   1063.1. As used in this chapter:
   (a) "Member insurer" means an insurer required to be a
member of the association in accordance with the provisions of
subdivision (a) of Section 1063, except and to the extent that
such insurer is participating in an insolvency program adopted
by the United States government.
   (b) "Insolvent insurer" means an insurer for which a dom-
iciliary or ancillary liquidator has been appointed in this state
after the effective date of this chapter.
   (c) (1) "Covered claims" means the obligations of an in-
solvent insurer, (i) imposed by law and arising out of an
insurance policy of the insolvent insurer; (ii) which were
unpaid by the insolvent insurer; (iii) which are presented as
                     1969
Ch. 1347]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2701

a claim to the liquidator in this state or to the association on or
before the last date fixed for the filing of claims in the dom-
iciliary liquidating proceedings; (iv) which were incurred
prior to, on, or within 30 days after the date the liquidator was
appointed; (v) for which the assets of the insolvent insurer
are insufficient to discharge in full; (vi) in the case of a policy
of workmen's compensation insurance, to provide workmen's
compensation benefits under the workmen's compensation law
of this state and (vii) in the case of other classes of insurance
if such policy is issued to a resident of this state or claim
against an insured thereunder is made by a resident of this
state.
    (2) "Covered claims" shall not include any obligations aris-
ing from life, title, surety, disability, credit, mortgage, or mort-
gage guaranty insurance, nor arising from a policy of ocean
marine insurance.
   (3) "Covered claims" shall not include any obligations to
refund unearned premiums, nor any obligations of the insol-
vent insurer arising out of any reinsurance contracts, nor any
obligations incurred after the expiration date of the insurance
policy or after the insurance policy has been replaced by the
insured or canceled at the insured's request or after the insur-
ance policy has been canceled by the association as provided in
this chapter, nor any obligations to any state or to the federal
government.
   (4) "Covered claims" shall not include any obligations to
insurers, insurance pools, or underwriting associations, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter.
    (5) "Covered claims," except in the case of a claim for
workmen's compensation benefits, shall not include any claim
in an amount of one hundred dollars ($100) or less, nor the
first one hundred dollars ($100) of any claim in excess of one
hundred dollars ($100), nor that portion of any claim which
is in excess of any applicable limits provided in the insurance
policy issued by the insolvent insurer.
    (6) "Covered claims" shall not include that portion of any
claim, other than a claim for workmen's compensation benefits,
which is in excess of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000).
    (7) "Covered claims" shall not include (a) any claim to
the extent it is covered by any other insurance of a class cov-
ered by the provisions of this article available to the claimant
nor (b) any claim by any person other than the original claim-
ant under the insurance policy in his own name, his executor,
administrator, guardian or other personal representative or
trustee in bankruptcy and shall not include any claim asserted
by an assignee or one claiming by right of subrogation, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   1063.2. (a) The association shall pay and discharge cov-
ered claims. I t may do so either directly by itself or through
a servicing facility or through a contract for reinsurance and
assumption of liabilities by one or more member insurers or
2702               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQJ1_ ^ § 4 7

through a contract with the liquidator, upon terms satisfactory
to the association and to the liquidator, under which payments
on covered claims would be made by the liquidator using funds
provided by the association.
   (b) The association shall be a party in interest in all pro-
ceedings involving a covered claim, and shall have the same
rights as the insolvent insurer would have had if not in liqui-
dation (1) to appear, defend, and appeal a claim in a court of
competent jurisdiction; (2) to receive notice of, investigate,
adjust, compromise, settle, and pay a covered claim; and (3)
to investigate, handle, and deny a noncovered claim. The asso-
ciation shall have no cause of action against the insureds of the
insolvent insurer for any sums it has paid out, except as pro-
vided by this chapter.
   (c) If damages against uninsured motorists are recoverable
by the claimant from his own insurer, such damages recover-
able shall be a credit against a covered claim payable under
this chapter. If damages against an insured who is not a resi-
dent of this state are recoverable by a claimant who is a
resident of this state, in whole or in part, from any insolvency
fund or its equivalent in the state where the insured is a
resident, such damages recoverable shall be a credit against
a covered claim payable under this chapter. Any amount paid
a claimant in excess of the amount authorized by this section
may be recovered by action brought by the association. A
member insurer may recover from the association only one-
half of any amount paid by such insurer under uninsured
motorist coverage only for bodily injury or wrongful death,
in those cases where the injured person insured by such an
insurer has proceeded under his uninsured motorist coverage
on the ground that the tort-feasor is uninsured as a result of
the insolvency of his liability insurer, provided that when
making such claim against the association, such member in-
surer waives all rights of subrogation against such tort-feasor.
   (d) The association shall receive the benefit of any reinsur-
ance contracts or treaties entered into by the insolvent insurer
which cover any of the liabilities incurred by the insolvent
insurer.
   (e) The association shall continue coverage for covered
claims under all insurance policies of the insolvent insurer
that were in force on the date the liquidator was appointed
until the insurance policy has expired in accordance with its
terms, or has been replaced by the insured, or canceled at the
insured's request, or has been canceled by the association as
provided in this chapter.
   (f) The association shall have authority to cancel insurance
policies of the insolvent insurer by mailing or delivering to the
insured at the last known address within this state a written
notice of cancellation at least 10 days prior to the effective date
of such cancellation, notwithstanding any statute or policy
provision to the contrary.
                    1969
Ch. 1347]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2703

    1063.3. The association shall have authority to submit re-
 ports and make recommendations to the commissioner regard-
 ing the financial condition of any member insurer. Such
 reports and recommendations shall not be public documents.
 There shall be no liability on the part of, and no cause of
 action of any nature shall arise against, member insurers, the
 association or its agents or employees, the board of governors,
 or the commissioner or his authorized representatives, for any
statements made by them in any reports or recommendations
made hereunder. Nothing in this section shall authorize the
association to audit the books of a member insurer.
   1063.4. (a) Insureds entitled to the protection of this
chapter shall cooperate with the association in accordance with
their policies in the same manner as they would have been
required to cooperate with their insurer if it were not in
liquidation and shall be deemed to have assigned to the associ-
ation any right to make claim against the liquidator for a
refund of unearned premium for the period of coverage pro-
vided by the association beginning on the date of liquidation
to the date of expiration or cancellation.
   (b) Any insured or claimant entitled to the benefits of this
chapter shall be deemed to have assigned to the association, to
the extent of any payment received, his rights against the
estate of the insolvent insurer.
   1063.5. Each time an insurer becomes insolvent then, to
the extent necessary to secure funds for the association for
payment of covered claims of that insolvent insurer and also
for payment of reasonable costs of adjusting such claims, the
association shall collect premium payments from its member
insurers sufficient to discharge its obligations. The association
shall allocate its claim payments and costs, incurred or esti-
mated to be incurred, to one or more of the following cate-
gories: (1) workmen's compensation claims; (2) automobile
claims; and (3) claims other than workmen's compensation
and automobile. The association may establish separate cate-
gories for classes other than workmen's compensation and
automobile. Separate premium payments shall be required for
each category. The premium payments for each category shall
be used to pay the claims and costs allocated to such category.
The rate of premium charged shall be a uniform percentage
of net direct written premium applicable to such category. The
premium charged to any member insurer for any category
shall not be more than 1 percent of the net direct premium
written in that category in this state by such member insurer.
Such premium charge shall be recognized in the ratemaking
procedures for insurance rates in the same manner that losses
are recognized. After all covered claims of the insolvent in-
surer and expenses of administration have been paid, any un-
used premiums and any reimbursements from the liquidator
2704              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1347

remaining in any category shall be refunded by the association
to the member insurers who paid the premiums for such cate-
gory in proportion to their premiums paid. However, an in-
surer which ceases to be a member of the association shall have
no right to a refund of any premium previously remitted to
the association. The commissioner may suspend or revoke the
certificate of authority to transact business in this state of a
member insurer which fails to pay a premium when due and
after demand has been made.
   1063.6. All proceedings in any court of law of this state
to which the insolvent insurer is a party shall be stayed for a
period of 60 days from the date a liquidator is appointed in
this state or in the state of domicile of the insurer, to permit
proper defense of all pending causes of action.
   1063.7. When a liquidator is appointed in this state for
any insurer, the liquidator shall promptly give notice of his
appointment and a brief description of the contents of this
chapter and of the nature and functions of the association by
prepaid first-class mail, to: (1) all persons known or reason-
ably expected to have or be interested in claims against the
insurer, at the last known address within this state including
notice to the insured of the date of the termination of insur-
ance ; (2) all insureds of the insurer, at the last known address
within this state; and (3) the board of governors of the asso-
ciation. The liquidator may also require that producers of
record of the insurer give prompt written notice of the same
information, by first-class mail, to their insureds at the
last known address within this state. The liquidator shall also
promptly publish such notice in a newspaper of general circu-
lation in the county where the insurer had its principal office
in this state not less than once per week, for four weeks, and
by publication elsewhere in this state as the court shall direct.
   1063.8. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
association shall be exempt from all license fees, income,
franchise, privilege, or occupation taxes levied or assessed by
this state, any municipality, county, or other political subdi-
vision of the state.
   1063.9. (a) The operation of the association shall at all
times be subject to the regulation of the commissioner. The
commissioner, or any deputy or examiner, or any person whom
the commissioner shall appoint, shall have the power of visita-
tion and examination into the affairs of the association and
free access to all books, papers, and documents that relate to
the business of the association, may summon and qualify wit-
nesses under oath, and may examine officers, agents or em-
ployees, or any other person having knowledge of the affairs,
transactions, or conditions of the association.
   (b) Any member insurer aggrieved by any action or deci-
sion of the association may appeal to the commissioner within
30 days after the action or decision.
                    1969
Ch. 1347]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2705

   1063.10. All orders or decisions of the commissioner made
 pursuant to this chapter, shall be subject to judicial review.
   1063.11. The commissioner may, upon notice and opportu-
nity for all interested parties to be heard, issue such rules,
regulations and orders as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this article. Such rules and regulations shall be
adopted, amended or repealed in accordance with Chapter 4.5
 (commencing with Section 11371) of P a r t 1 of Division 3 of
Title 2 of the Government Code.
   1063.12. Neither the association, its member insurers or
any officer, director, agent or employee of the association, or
its member insurers, shall be liable for any sum in excess of
the face amount of any policy of insurance of the insolvent
insurer, as defined under subdivision (c) of Section 1063.1 of
this article.
   SEC. 4. Section 1391 of the Insurance Code is amended
to read:
   1391. Whenever an exchange subject to this article, is not
possessed of admitted assets sufficient to discharge all liabili-
ties and to maintain the required surplus, the attorney may
make an assessment for the amount, subject to the limits pro-
vided by this article, needed to make up the deficiency. If the
attorney fails to make the assessment within 30 days after
the commissioner orders him to do so, the commissioner may
make the assessment. If liquidation of such an exchange is
ordered, the assessment may be levied for such an amount,
subject to limits provided by this article, as the commissioner
determines to be necessary to discharge all liabilities of the
exchange, including the reasonable cost of liquidation.
   SEC. 4.5. If any provision of this act, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
the act which can be given effect without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   Certain insurers doing business in this state are now in
conservatorship or face the possibility of insolvency. Some
of such insurers have issued their policies primarily to persons
of modest means or have undertaken to provide workmen's
compensation benefits to workers in all parts of the state,
and such conservatorship or potential insolvency can impose
extreme hardship upon such persons and upon other insureds,
claimants, public agencies and the public at large. I n order
to provide a means for mitigating or preventing such an in-
equitable situation at the earliest possible time it is necessary
that this act take effect immediately.
2706                  STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [ Q j 1348

                           CHAPTER 1348
An act to add Article 2.6 (commencing with Section 5140) to
  Chapter 2 of Division 5 of the Public Resources Code, re-
  lating to county theatrical schools and institutes.
             [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 2.6 (commencing with Section 5140) is
added to Chapter 2 of Division 5 of the Public Resources Code,
to read:

       Article 2.6.   County Theatrical Schools and Institutes

   5140. I n addition to its other powers the board of super-
visors of any county with a population of four million or more
may:
   (a) Acquire land for and construct, lease or otherwise ac-
quire, furnish, refurnish, maintain or repair buildings for
special or technical schools or institutes for instruction in the
dramatic or theatrical arts, and related facilities, including,
without limitation to, public auditoriums or playhouses and
offstreet parking places for motor vehicles;
   (b) Operate such schools or institutes and other related
facilities, and, in the operation thereof, charge such fees as
are necessary to defray the cost of instruction, issue certificates
evidencing completion of the instruction taken to the satisfac-
tion of the board, present theatrical and other entertainment
to the public and charge admission thereto, and exercise any
other power the board deems necessary and proper to promote
the objects and purposes of such schools or institutes and their
related facilities;
   (c) Enter into an operating lease or sublease, without ad-
vertising for bids therefor, of such buildings, structures and
facilities, or any thereof, with any nonprofit association or
corporation for their maintenance, operation, and management,
or any thereof, for such purposes and for a specified term, not
to exceed 40 years, such lease or sublease to include provi-
sions regarding manner of use as required by law and such
other terms and conditions as the board sees fit.
   5141.1. Any such lease or sublease entered into pursuant to
subdivision (c) of Section 5140 shall provide that the net
revenue, if any, from the operation and use of the facilities,
remaining after the payment of any expenses and costs for
maintenance, operation or management, payment of interest
and principal upon any loans made to the nonprofit corpora-
tion or association for purposes of maintenance, operation or
management, or any other expenses, and after providing main-
tenance and operation reserves, shall be paid at least an-
                       1969
Ch. 1349]                     REGULAR SESSION                    2707

nually to the county. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sec-
tion 231 of the Kevenue and Taxation Code, all such buildings,
structures and facilities, together with the land upon which
they are situated, and so much of the surrounding land as is
required for their use and occupation, operated by a nonprofit
association or corporation pursuant to any such operating
lease or sublease, shall be exempt from taxation within the
meaning of "charitable purposes" in Section lc of Article
X I I I of the Constitution of California. Any such lease or sub-
lease shall provide that, upon its expiration and after payment
or discharge of its indebtedness and liabilities, all of the assets
of the nonprofit association or corporation shall be transferred
to the county.

                          CHAPTBE 1349
An act to amend Section 9308 and the heading of Article 1
  (commencing with Section 9301) of Chapter 2 of Division 8
  of the Education Code, relating to textbooks.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 19 69. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The heading of Article 1 (commencing with
Section 9301) of Chapter 2 of Division 8 of the Education
Code is amended to read:

       Article 1.     Adoption and Selection of Textbooks

   SEC. 2. Section 9308 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   9308. The board shall, at the time of the adoption of basic
textbooks as provided in Section 9307, provide a list of sup-
plementary textbooks tentatively indicated for adoption for
use in those subjects of the several elementary school grades
for which the board shall determine the need and desirability
for a supplementary textbook or supplementary textbooks to
promote the maximum efficiency of pupil learning. The board
shall establish a distribution schedule which shall set forth
the recommended quantities of supplementary textbooks which
shall be available to pupils and teachers. Such schedule shall
include the estimated cost of each supplementary textbook.
The board shall cause to be computed for each school district
providing instruction in the elementary school grades an
 amount of textbook credit which shall be equal to the total
of the estimated cost of all the supplementary textbooks which
would be available to the school district under the conditions
of the recommended distribution schedule. The board shall
make this amount of textbook credit known to the school dis-
 trict. The board shall determine the period for which each
2708                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1350

supplementary textbook is adopted, consistent with the pro-
visions of Section 9315.
   SEC. 3. Section 9308 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   9308. The board shall, at the time of the adoption of basic
textbooks as provided in Section 9307, provide a list of sup-
plementary textbooks tentatively indicated for adoption for
use in those subjects of the several elementary school grades
for which the board shall determine the need and desirability
for a supplementary textbook or supplementary textbooks to
promote the maximum efficiency of pupil learning. The board
shall establish a distribution schedule which shall set forth
the recommended quantities of supplementary textbooks which
shall be available to pupils and teachers. Such schedule shall
include the estimated cost of each supplementary textbook.
The board shall cause to be computed for each school district
providing instruction in the elementary school grades an
amount of textbook credit which shall be equal to the total of
the estimated cost of all the supplementary textbooks which
would be available to the school district under the conditions
of the recommended distribution schedule. The board shall
make this amount of textbook credit known to the school dis-
trict. The board shall determine the period for which each
supplementary textbook is adopted, consistent with the pro-
visions of Section 9313.
   SEC. 4. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 9308 of the Education Code proposed by both this
bill and Senate Bill No. 225 are enacted that both amendments
be given effect and incorporated in Section 9308 in the form
set forth in Section 3 of this act. Therefore, in the event
Senate Bill No. 225 is enacted and amends Section 9308, Sec-
tion 3 of this act shall become operative at the same time that
Section 9308 as amended by Senate Bill 225 becomes operative,
and at that time, Section 9308 of the Education Code as
amended by Section 2 of this act is repealed.


                          CHAPTER 1350
An act to add Section 62491 to, and to repeal Section 62491
  of, the Agricultural Code, relating to milk, declaring the
  urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor August 81, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION    1.   Section 62491 of the Agricultural Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 2.    Section 62491 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1350]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2709

   62491. The director may suspend the minimum wholesale
prices, or the minimum retail prices, or both, which are in
effect in any marketing area, subject to the following require-
ments:
   (a) The suspension shall not be effective until the director
determines that the minimum prices suspended do not con-
form to and effectuate the legislative declarations, purposes
and intent set forth in this chapter.
   (b) Prior to making any determination provided for in sub-
division (a) the director shall hold one or more public hear-
ings in the marketing area which is affected, upon the subject
of the proposed suspension. Any such hearing must be held
in the manner prescribed in this article prior to the establish-
ment by the director of minimum prices.
   (c) The director, upon making the determination provided
for in subdivision (a), may suspend all minimum wholesale
and minimum retail prices then in effect in the entire market-
ing area, or he may limit such suspension as follows:
   (1) The suspension may be confined to a zone or zones
within a marketing area.
   (2) The suspension, within the area affected, may be lim-
ited to minimum wholesale prices, or to minimum retail prices,
or to particular minimum wholesale prices or minimum retail
prices.
   (d) The suspension may be made effective for such period
as is determined by the director except that the director shall,
within each successive 90-day period following the effective
date of the suspension, review all applicable economic factors
operative in the marketing area affected for the purpose of de-
termining the necessity for a continuation of the suspension.
 Such periodic review may include a public hearing conducted
in the manner prescribed in this article for such hearings.
    (e) At any time within a period of six months following
 the effective date of the suspension the director may reinstate,
in the marketing area, without prior public hearing, the mini-
 mum prices theretofore suspended. Different minimum prices
may be again established in the marketing area only after
 public hearing or hearings, conducted in the manner prescribed
in this article for such hearings.
    (f) Any suspension of minimum prices under this section
 shall be effective only as to fluid milk or fluid cream, or both,
 sold within the geographic area affected by the suspension.
 Any fluid milk or fluid cream, or both, purchased, or otherwise
 acquired, within, or from sources within, such geographic area,
 during the effective period of the suspension, for resale else-
 where, shall be subject to the minimum wholesale prices and
 the minimum retail prices established by the director for the
 area of ultimate sale of such fluid milk or fluid cream or both.
    (g) This section does not apply to unfair practices. The
 provisions of Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 61301) of
 this part, and of Article 9 (commencing with Section 62041)
2710               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     fCh. 1351

of this chapter, shall remain in effect at all times as to trans-
actions occurring or originating in any geographic area in
which minimum prices are suspended under this section.
   (h) Any suspension of minimum prices under this section
shall not suspend application of any of the provisions of this
chapter as to any fluid milk sold, or contracted to be sold, by
a distributor or retail store during any period prior to sus-
pension by the director of the minimum prices applicable to
such fluid milk.
   This section does not apply to stabilization and marketing
plans nor to pooling plans. Any such stabilization and market-
ing plan may be amended or terminated only as provided in
Article 19 (commencing with Section 62381) of this chapter.
Any such pooling plan may be amended or terminated only
as provided in Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 62700)
of this part.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   There is need for enlarged authority for the Director of
Agriculture to suspend resale price controls for fluid milk,
particularly at the wholesale level, in order to prevent economic
dislocation in the dairy industry which may adversely affect
the supply of fluid milk and dairy products to the consuming
public. To insure continuity of such supply of fluid milk and
dairy products, it is necessary that this act go into immediate
effect.

                        CHAPTER 1351
An act to amend Sections 23608, 23610, and 25201 of, and to
  add Section 25207 to, the Education Code, relating to the
  California State Colleges.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 23608 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  23608. The trustees may enter into agreements with any
public or private agency, officer, person, or institution, cor-
poration, association, or foundation for the performance of
acts or for the furnishing of services, facilities, materials, or
equipment by or for the trustees or for the joint performance
of an act or function or the joint furnishing of services and
facilities by the trustees and the other party to the agreement.
  The trustees may enter into agreements with the federal
government or any agency thereof in accordance with the pro-
                    1369
Ch. 1351]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2711

 cedures prescribed by the federal government or such agency
in order to receive the benefits of any federal statute extend-
 ing benefits to state colleges or to state college students, in-
cluding, but not limited to,
    (a) Agreements with any agency of the federal government
 for the education of persons in the service of the federal gov-
ernment,
    (b) Agreements with any agency of the federal government
for the education of veterans, provided that such agreements
shall provide for payment of the maximum amount permitted
under the act, or acts, of Congress under which the agree-
ment is entered into.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the trustees
have all power necessary to perform such acts and comply
with conditions required or imposed by the federal govern-
ment in order to receive such benefits. The trustees are vested
with all necessary power and authority to cooperate with any
such agency of the federal government in the administration
of any applicable act of Congress and rules and regulations
adopted thereunder.
   The provisions of Article 1 (commencing with Section 4300)
of Chapter 4 of Division 5, Title 1 of the Government Code
shall not apply to the purchase by the trustees of musical
instruments for the use of students of state colleges.
   SEC. 2. Section 23610 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   23610. The trustees may enter into agreements with any
agency of the federal government for the construction of hous-
ing and other educational facilities for students and faculties
of any college under the jurisdiction of the trustees if they
determine that the income, rent and charges for the use of the
facilities will be sufficient in amount to repay the principal
and interest on the amount secured from the federal govern-
ment for the construction of the facilities.
   The trustees may also enter into agreements with any
agency of the federal government which result in grants,
matching funds, or any other kind of financial aid for con-
struction of housing and other educational facilities for stu-
dents and staff of any college under the jurisdiction of the
trustees.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, whenever
necessary to secure the full benefits of any federal statutes
pertaining to loans, grants, matching funds, or any other kind
of financial aid to educational institutions for housing and
other educational facilities, the trustees may give such security
as may be required and may comply with such conditions as
may be imposed by the federal government.
   SEC. 3. Section 25201 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   25201. As used in this chapter:
   (a) " Project" includes the erection, construction, altera-
tion, repair or improvement of any state structure, building,
2712               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQJ1_ J 3 5 2

road, or other state improvement of any kind which will ex-
ceed in cost a total of five thousand dollars ($5,000).
   (b) " T r u s t e e s " means the Trustees of the California State
Colleges.
   (c) "Service contract" means any contract for services in
connection with a project other than a project contract, and
includes, but is not limited to, contracts for architectural, en-
gineering, planning, testing, general studies, or feasibility
services.
   SEC. 4. Section 25207 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   25207. The trustees may enter into service contracts. Such
contracts shall be subject only to Section 25330 and to such
other provisions of this chapter, if any, as the trustees may
from time to time designate as applicable.


                         C H A P T E E 1352
An act to amend Sections 154, 227, 261, 262, 263.5, 886, and
  887.1 of, and to amend the headings of Chapter 1.5 (com-
  mencing with Section 227) of Division 1 and Article 2.5
  (commencing with Section 260) of Chapter 2 of Division 1
  of, the Streets and Highways Code, relating to scenic high-
  ways.
           [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 154 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   154. The department shall encourage the construction and
development by counties of portions of the county highways
as official county scenic highways and may furnish to the
counties any information or other assistance which will aid
the counties in the construction or development of such scenic
highways.
   Whenever the department, with the advice of the Scenic
Highway Advisory Committee, determines that any county
highway meets the minimum standards prescribed by the de-
partment for official scenic highways, including the concept of
the "complete highway," as described in Section 261, it may
authorize the county in which the highway is located to desig-
nate the highway as an official county scenic highway and the
department shall so indicate the highway in publications of
the department and in any maps which are prepared by the
department for distribution to the public which show the high-
way.
   If the department, with the advice of the Scenic Highway
Advisory Committee, determines that any county highway
which has been designated as an official county scenic highway
                    1969
Ch. 1352]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2713

no longer meets the minimum standards prescribed by the de-
partment for official scenic highways, it may, after notice to
the county and a hearing on the matter, if requested by the
county, revoke the authority of the county to designate the
highway as an official county scenic highway.
   SEC. 2. The heading of Chapter 1.5 (commencing with
Section 227) of Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
    CHAPTEB 1.5.    SCENIC HIGHWAY ADVISORY COMMITTEE

   SEC. 3. Section 227 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   227. Scenic Highway Advisory Committee, hereafter re-
ferred to in this chapter as the advisory committee, is hereby
created. The advisory committee shall consist of seven mem-
bers appointed by the Governor from among officials of cities
and counties, persons having special competence in the field of
landscape architecture as it relates to scenic conservation and
others interested in highways, land planning, and park prob-
lems.
   Appointments shall be for a four-year term. Each member
shall hold office until the appointment and qualification of his
successor. Vacancies occurring prior to the expiration of a
term shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
   SEC. 4. The heading of Article 2.5 (commencing with Sec-
tion 260) of Chapter 2 of Division 1 of the Streets and High-
ways Code is amended to read:

             Article 2.5. State Scenic Highways
   SEC. 5. Section 261 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   261. The department shall, with the advice of the Scenic
Highway Advisory Committee, establish and apply pertinent
planning and design standards for development of official
scenic highways.
   In establishing and applying such standards for, and under-
taking the development of, official scenic highways, the depart-
ment shall take into consideration the concept of the "com-
plete highway," which is a highway which incorporates not
only safety, utility, and economy but also beauty. The depart-
ment shall also take into consideration in establishing such
standards that, in a "complete highway," pleasing appear-
ance is a consideration in the planning and design process. In
the development of official scenic highways, the department
shall give special attention both to the impact of the highway
on the landscape and to the highway's visual appearance. The
standards for official scenic highways shall also require that
local governmental agencies have taken such action as may be
necessary to protect the scenic appearance of the scenic cor-
ridor, the band of land generally adjacent to the highway
2714              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             TQfo J 3 5 2

right-of-way, including, but not limited to (1) regulation of
land use and intensity (density) of development; (2) detailed
land and site planning; (3) control of outdoor advertising;
 (4) careful attention to and control of earthmoving and land-
scaping; and (5) the design and appearance of structures and
equipment.
   SEC. 6. Section 262 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   262. Whenever the department determines that the cor-
ridor protection program for any state highway in the state
scenic highway system established by this article has been im-
plemented by local governmental agencies and a plan and pro-
gram has been developed by the department for bringing such
highway up to the standards for official scenic highways estab-
lished by the department, including the concept of the "com-
plete highway," as described in Section 261, the department
shall designate the highway as an official state scenic highway
and shall so indicate the highway in any publications of the
department or in any maps which are issued by the department
to the public.
   The department shall cause appropriate signs to be placed
and maintained along the portions of the state scenic highway
system which the department has designated as official state
scenic highways that indicate that the highways are official
state scenic highways.
   If at any time the department, with the advice of the Scenic
Highway Advisory Committee, determines that the corridor
protection program of local governmental agencies with respect
to any highway which has been designated as an official state
scenic highway no longer adequately carries out responsibility
of the local governmental agencies for the protection of the
scenic corridor, it may revoke the designation of the highway
as an official state scenic highway and remove the signs which
so indicate the highway.
   SEC. 7. Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   263.5. The state scenic highway system shall also include:
   Eoute 75 from Route 5 near the south end of San Diego Bay
to Route 5 via the Silver Strand and the San Diego-Coronado
Toll Bridge.
   Route 78 from Route 79 near Santa Ysabel to Route 86
near Kane Springs.
   Route 79 from:
   (a) Route 8 near Descanso to Route 78 near Julian.
   (b) Route 78 near Santa Ysabel to Route 71 near Aguanga
   Route 80 from-.
   (a) Route 280 near First Street in San Francisco to Route
61 in Oakland.
   (b) Route 20 near Emigrant Gap to the Nevada state line
near Verdi, Nevada.
                   1969
Ch. 1352]                 REGULAR SESSION               2715

   Koute 84 from Eoute 4 near Antioch to Route 160 near
Rio Vista.
   Route 88 from Route 49 near Jackson to Route 89 near
Picketts.
   Route 91 from Route 55 near Santa Ana Canyon to Route
71 near Corona.
   Route 92 from Route 1 near Half Moon Bay to Route 280
near Crystal Springs Lake.
   Route 94 from Route 125 near Spring Valley to Route 8
west of Jacumba.
   SEC. 8. Section 886 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
   886. The Department of Parks and Recreation shall report
to the Legislature, upon the advice of the Scenic Highway Ad-
visory Committee, its recommendations concerning potential
parkway routes that might be established by the Legislature
as part of the state parkway system.
   SEC. 9. Section 887.1 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   887.1. The design for such a roadway shall be submitted
to the Department of Parks and Recreation and to the Scenic
Highway Advisory Committee, and upon their joint approval
such a roadway shall be constructed by the Department of
Public Works in accordance with the approved design.
   SEC. 10. Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   263.5. The state scenic highway system shall also include:
   Route 75 from Route 5 near the south end of San Diego
Bay to Route 5 via the Silver Strand and the San Diego-
Coronado Toll Bridge.
   Route 78 from Route 79 near Santa Ysabel to Route 86
near Kane Springs.
   Route 79 from:
   (a) Route 8 to Route 78.
   (b) Route 78 near Santa Ysabel to Route 71 near Aguanga.
   Route 80 from:
   (a) Route 280 near First Street in San Francisco to Route
61 in Oakland.
   (b) Route 20 near Emigrant Gap to the Nevada state line
near Verdi, Nevada.
   Route 84 from Route 4 near Antioch to Route 160 near
Rio Vista.
   Route 88 from Route 49 near Jackson to Route 89 near
Picketts.
   Route 91 from Route 55 near Santa Ana Canyon to Route
71 near Corona.
   Route 92 from Route 1 near Half Moon Bay to Route 280
near Crystal Springs Lake.
   Route 94 from Route 125 near Spring Valley to Route 8
west of Jacumba.
2716             STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             TQ^   1Z52

   SEC. 11. Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   263.5. The state scenic highway system shall also include:
   Eoute 75 from Route 5 near the south end of San Diego
Bay to Eoute 5 via the Silver Strand and the San Diego-
Coronado Toll Bridge.
   Eoute 78 from Eoute 79 near Santa Ysabel to Eoute 86
near Kane Springs.
   Eoute 79 from:
   (a) Eoute 8 near Descanso to Route 78 near Julian.
   (b) Route 78 near Santa Ysabel to Route 71 near Aguanga.
   Route 80 from:
   (a) Route 280 near First Street in San Francisco to Route
580 near Oakland.
   (b) Route 20 near Emigrant Gap to the Nevada state line
near Verdi, Nevada.
   Route 84 from Route 4 near Antioch to Route 160 near
Rio Vista.
   Route 88 from Route 49 near Jackson to Route 89 near
Picketts.
   Route 91 from Route 55 near Santa Ana Canyon to Route
71 near Corona.
   Route 92 from Route 1 near Half Moon Bay to Route 280
near Crystal Springs Lake.
   Route 94 from Route 125 near Spring Valley to Route 8
west of Jacumba.
   SEC. 12. Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   263.5. The state scenic highway system shall also include:
   Route 75 from Route 5 near the south end of San Diego
Bay to Route 5 via the Silver Strand and the San Diego-
Coronado Toll Bridge.
   Route 78 from Route 79 near Santa Ysabel to Eoute 86
near Kane Springs.
   Eoute 79 from:
   (a) Eoute 8 to Eoute 78.
   (b) Eoute 78 near Santa Ysabel to Eoute 71 near Aguanga.
   Eoute 80 from:
   (a) Eoute 280 near First Street in San Francisco to Eoute
580 near Oakland.
   (b) Eoute 20 near Emigrant Gap to the Nevada state line
near Verdi, Nevada.
   Eoute 84 from Eoute 4 near Antioch to Route 160 near
Rio Vista.
   Route 88 from Route 49 near Jackson to Route 89 near
Picketts.
  Eoute 91 from Eoute 55 near Santa Ana Canyon to Eoute
71 near Corona.
   Route 92 from Route 1 near Half Moon Bay to Route 280
near Crystal Springs Lake.
   Route 94 from Route 125 near Spring Valley to Route 8
west of Jacumba.
                       1969
Ch. 1353]                     REGULAR, SESSION                   2717

  SEC. 13. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code proposed
by both Section 7 of this bill and S.B. 174 are enacted, that
both amendments be given effect and incorporated in Section
263.5 in the form set forth in Section 10 of this act. Therefore,
in the event S.B. 174 is enacted and amends Section 263.5,
Section 10 of this act shall become operative at the same time
that Section 263.5 as amended by S.B. 174 becomes operative,
and at that time, Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways
Code as amended by Sections 7, 11, and 12 of this act is
repealed.
  SEC. 14. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code proposed
by both Section 7 of this bill and A.B. 1345 are enacted, that
both amendments be given effect and incorporated in Section
263.5 in the form set forth in Section 11 of this act. Therefore,
in the event A.B. 1345 is enacted and amends Section 263.5,
Section 11 of this act shall become operative at the same time
that Section 263.5 as amended by A.B. 1345 becomes operative,
and at that time, Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways
Code as amended by Sections 7, 10, and 12 of this act is
repealed.
  SEC. 15. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code proposed
by Section 7 of this bill, A.B. 1345, and S.B. 174 are enacted,
that all three amendments be given effect and incorporated in
Section 263.5 in the form set forth in Section 12 of this act.
Therefore, in the event A.B. 1345 and S.B. 174 are enacted
and amend Section 263.5, Section 12 of this act shall become
operative at the same time that Section 263.5 as amended by
A.B. 1345 and S.B. 174 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 263.5 of the Streets and Highways Code as amended
by Sections 7, 10, and 11 of this act is repealed.


                          C H A P T E E 1353
       An act to amend Section 11580.2 of the Insurance
            Code, relating to uninsured motorists.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 19 69. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 11580.2 of the Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   11580.2. (a) No policy of bodily injury liability insurance
covering liability arising out of the ownership, maintenance,
or use of any motor vehicle, shall be issued or delivered in
this state to the owner or operator of a motor vehicle,
or shall be issued or delivered by any insurer licensed in
2718               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               mfc. 1353

 this state upon any motor vehicle then principally used or
principally garaged in this state, unless the policy contains, or
has added to it by endorsement, a provision with coverage
 limits at least equal to the financial responsibility require-
 ments specified in Section 16059 of the Vehicle Code insuring
the insured, his heirs or his legal representative for all sums
within such limits which he or they, as the case may be, shall
be legally entitled to recover as damages for bodily injury or
wrongful death from the owner or operator of an uninsured
motor vehicle. The insurer and any named insured, prior to
 or subsequent to the issuance or renewal of a policy, may, by
 agreement in writing, delete the provision covering damage
caused by an uninsured motor vehicle. Such deletion by any
named insured shall be binding upon every insured to whom
 such policy or endorsement provisions apply. A policy shall be
 excluded from the application of this section if the only cov-
erage with respect to the use of any motor vehicle is limited
to the contingent liability arising out of the use of nonowned
motor vehicles.
    (b) As used in (a) above, "bodily i n j u r y " includes sick-
ness or disease, including death, resulting therefrom; the term
"named insured" means only the individual or organization
named in the declarations of the policy of motor vehicle bodily
injury liability insurance referred to in (a) above; as used in
 (a) above the term " i n s u r e d " means the named insured and
the spouse of the named insured and relatives of either while
residents of the same household while occupants of a motor
vehicle or otherwise, heirs and any other person while in or
upon or entering into or alighting from an insured motor ve-
hicle and any person with respect to damages he is entitled to
recover for care or loss of services because of bodily injury to
which the policy provisions or endorsement apply; the term
"insured motor vehicle" means the motor vehicle described in
the underlying insurance policy of which the uninsured motor-
ist endorsement or coverage is a part, a temporary substitute or
a newly acquired automobile for which liability coverage is
provided in the policy if the motor vehicle is used by the
named insured or with his permission or consent, express or
implied, and any other automobile not owned by the named
insured or any resident of the same household while being
operated by the named insured or his spouse if a resident of
the same household, but the term "insured motor vehicle"
shall not include any automobile while used as a public or
livery conveyance. The term "uninsured motor vehicle" means
a motor vehicle with respect to the ownership, maintenance or
use of which there is no bodily injury liability insurance or
bond applicable at the time of the accident, or there is such
applicable insurance or bond but the company writing the
same denies coverage thereunder or refuses to admit coverage
thereunder except conditionally or with reservation, or a motor
vehicle used without the permission of the owner thereof if
                     19fi9
Ch. 13531                    REGULAR SESSION                 £719

 there is no bodily injury liability insurance or bond applicable
 at the time of the accident with respect to the owner or op-
 erator thereof, or the owner or operator thereof be unknown,
 provided that, with respect to an "uninsured motor vehicle"
 whose owner or operator is unknown:
    (1) The bodily injury has arisen out of physical contact of
such automobile with the insured or with an automobile which
 the insured is occupying.
    (2) The insured or someone on his behalf shall have re-
ported the accident within 24 hours to the police department
of the city where the accident occurred or, if the accident
occurred in unincorporated territory then either to the sheriff
of the county where the accident occurred or the local head-
quarters of the California Highway Patrol, and have filed with
the insurer within 30 days thereafter a statement under oath
that the insured or his legal representative has or the insured's
heirs have a cause of action arising out of such accident for
damages against a person or persons whose identity is un-
ascertainable and set forth facts in support thereof. The term
"uninsured motor vehicle" shall not include an automobile
owned by the named insured or any resident of the same house-
hold or self-insured within the meaning of the safety respon-
sibility law of the state in which the motor vehicle is registered
or which is owned by the United States of America, Canada, a
state or political subdivision of any such government or an
agency of any of the foregoing, or a land motor vehicle or
trailer operated on rails or crawlertreads or while located for
use as a residence or premises and not as a vehicle, or a farm-
type tractor or equipment designed for use principally off
public roads, except while actually upon public roads.
   The term '' uninsured motor vehicle'' also means an insured
motor vehicle where the liability insurer thereof is unable
to make payment with respect to the legal liability of its in-
sured within the limits specified therein because of insolvency.
An insurer's solvency protection shall be applicable only to
accidents occurring during a policy period in which its in-
sured's motor vehicle coverage is in effect where the liability
insurer of the tort-feasor becomes insolvent within one year
of such accident. In the event of payment to any person under
the coverage required by this section and subject to the terms
and conditions of such coverage, the insurer making such pay-
ment, shall to the extent thereof, be entitled to any proceeds
which may be recoverable from the assets of the insolvent
insurer through any settlement or judgment of such person
against the insolvent insurer.
   (c) The insurance coverage provided for in this section does
not apply:
   (1) To property damage sustained by the insured.
   (2) To bodily injury of the insured while in or upon or
while entering into or alighting from an automobile other than
the described automobile if the owner thereof has insurance
similar to that provided in this section.
   86—1954
2720               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [(fa 1353

   (3) To bodily injury of the insured with respect to which
the insured or his representative shall, without the written
consent of the insurer, make any settlement with or prosecute
to judgment any action against any person who may be legally
liable therefor.
   (4) In any instance where it would inure directly or in-
directly to the benefit of any workmen's compensation carrier
or to any person qualified as a self-insurer under any work-
men's compensation law.
   (5) To establish an exemption as provided in subdivisions
 (a), (b), and (c) of Section 16057 of the Vehicle Code.
   (6) To bodily injury of the insured while occupying a
motor vehicle owned by an insured, unless the occupied ve-
hicle is an insured motor vehicle.
   (7) To bodily injury of the insured when struck by a ve-
hicle owned by an insured.
   (d) Subject to paragraph ( c ) ( 2 ) , the policy or endorse-
ment may provide that if the insured has insurance available
to him under more than one uninsured motorist coverage pro-
vision, any damages shall not be deemed to exceed the higher
of the applicable limits of the respective coverages, and such
damages shall be prorated between the applicable coverages as
the limits of each coverage bears to the total of such limits.
   (e) The policy or endorsement added thereto may provide
that if the insured has valid and collectible automobile medical
payment insurance available to him, the damages which he
shall be entitled to recover from the owner or operator of an
uninsured motor vehicle shall be reduced for purposes of un-
insured motorist coverage by the amounts paid or due to be
paid under such automobile medical payment insurance. This
subdivision shall become operative on January 1, 1971.
   (f) The policy or an endorsement added thereto shall pro-
vide that the determination as to whether the insured shall be
legally entitled to recover damages, and if so entitled, the
amount thereof, shall be made by agreement between the in-
sured and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by
arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted by a single
neutral arbitrator. The provisions of Article 3 (commencing
with Section 2016) of Chapter 3 of Title 3 of Part 4 of the
Code of Civil Procedure shall be applicable to such determina-
tions, and all rights, remedies, obligations, liabilities and pro-
cedures set forth in said Article 3 shall be available to both
the insured and the insurer at any time after the accident,
both before and after the commencement of arbitration, if any,
with the following limitations:
   (1) "Whenever in said Article 3, reference is made to the
court in which the action is pending, or provision is made for
application to the court or obtaining leave of court or approval
by the court, the court which shall have jurisdiction for the
purposes of this section shall be the Superior Court of the
State of California, in and for any county which is a proper
                    1969
Ch. 1353]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2721

county for the filing of a suit for bodily injury arising out of
the accident, against the uninsured motorist, or any county
specified in the policy or an endorsement added thereto as a
proper county for arbitration or action thereon.
   (2) Any such proper court to which application is first
made by either the insured or the insurer under the provisions
of said Article 3 for any discovery or other relief or remedy,
shall thereafter be the only court to which either of the parties
shall make any applications under said Article 3 with re-
spect to the same accident, subjeet, however, to the right of
such court to grant a change of venue after a hearing upon
notice, upon any of the grounds upon which change of venue
might be granted in an action filed in the superior court.
   (3) A deposition pursuant to the provisions of Section 2016
of the Code of Civil Procedure may be taken without leave of
court, except that leave of court, granted with or without
notice and for good cause shown, must be obtained if the
notice of the taking of the deposition is served by either party
within 20 days after the accident.
   (4) The provisions of subparagraph (a) (4) of Section 2019
of the Code of Civil Procedure shall not be applicable to dis-
covery under this section.
   (5) For the purposes of discovery under this section, the
insured and the insurer shall each be deemed to be " a party
to the record of any civil action or proceedings," where that
phrase is used in subparagraph (b) (2) of Section 2019 of
the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (6) Interrogatories under the provisions of Section 2030 of
the Code of Civil Procedure and requests for admission under
Section 2033 may be served by either the insured or the in-
surer upon the other at any time more than 20 days after the
accident without leave of court.
   (7) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
rights of any party to discovery in any action pending or
which may hereafter be pending in any court.
   (g) The insurer paying a claim under an uninsured motorist
endorsement or coverage shall be entitled to be subrogated to
the rights of the insured to whom such claim was paid against
any person causing such injury or death to the extent that
payment was made. Such action may be brought within three
years from the date that payment was made hereunder.
   (h) An insured entitled to recovery under the uninsured
motorist endorsement or coverage shall be reimbursed within
the conditions stated herein without being required to sign any
release or waiver or rights to which he may be entitled under
any other insurance coverage applicable; nor shall payment
under this section to such insured be delayed or made contin-
gent upon the decisions as to liability or distribution of loss
costs under other bodily injury liability insurance or any bond
applicable to the accident. Any loss payable under the terms
 2722              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Oh. 1353

  of the uninsured motorist endorsement or coverage to or for
  any person may be reduced:
     (1) By the amount paid and the present value of all
  amounts payable to him under any workmen's compensation
  law exclusive of nonoccupational disability benefits.
     (2) By the amounts paid or due to be paid under any valid
  and collectible automobile medical payment insurance avail-
  able to the insured. This paragraph shall remain in effect until
  December 31, 1970, and shall have no force or effect after that
  date.
     (3) By the amount the insured is entitled to recover from
  any other person insured under the underlying liability insur-
  ance policy of which the uninsured motorist endorsement or
  coverage is a part.
     (i) No cause of action shall accrue to the insured under
  any policy or endorsement provision issued pursuant to this
 section unless within one year from the date of the accident:
     (1) Suit for bodily injury has been filed against the un-
 insured motorist, in a court of competent jurisdiction, or
     (2) Agreement as to the amount due under the policy has
 been concluded, or
     (3) The insured has formally instituted arbitration pro-
 ceedings.
     SEC. 2. Section 11580.2 of the Insurance Code is amended
 to read:
    11580.2. (a) No policy of bodily injury liability insurance
 covering liability arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or
 use of any motor vehicle, shall be issued or delivered in this
 state to the owner or operator of a motor vehicle, or shall be
 issued or delivered by any insurer licensed in this state upon
 any motor vehicle then principally used or principally garaged
 in this state, unless the policy contains, or has added to it by
 endorsement, a provision with coverage limits at least equal to
 the financial responsibility requirements specified in Section
 16059 of the Vehicle Code insuring the insured, his heirs or
his legal representative for all sums within such limits which
he or they, as the ease may be, shall be legally entitled to re-
cover as damages for bodily injury or wrongful death from
the owner or operator of an uninsured motor vehicle. The
insurer and any named insured, prior to or subsequent to the
issuance or renewal of a policy, may, by agreement in writ-
ing, delete the provision covering damage caused by an unin-
sured motor vehicle. Such deletion by any named insured shall
be binding upon every insured to whom such policy or en-
dorsement provisions apply. A policy shall be excluded from
the application of this section if the only coverage with re-
spect to the use of any motor vehicle is limited to the contin-
gent liability arising out of the use of nonowned motor
vehicles.
    (b) As used in (a) above, "bodily i n j u r y " includes sick-
ness or disease, including death, resulting therefrom; the term
                     1969
Ch. 13531                   REGULAR SESSION                  2723

 "named insured" means only the individual or organization
 named in the declarations of the policy of motor vehicle bodily
 injury liability insurance referred to in (a) above; as used in
  (a) above the term " i n s u r e d " means the named insured and
 the spouse of the named insured and relatives of either while
 residents of the same household while occupants of a motor
vehicle or otherwise, heirs and any other person while in or
 upon or entering into or alighting from an insured motor ve-
hicle and any person with respect to damages he is entitled to
recover for care or loss of services because of bodily injury to
which the policy provisions or endorsement apply; the term
 '' insured motor vehicle'' means the motor vehicle described in
the underlying insurance policy of which the uninsured motor-
 ist endorsement or coverage is a part, a temporary substitute or
a newly acquired automobile for which liability coverage is
provided in the policy if the motor vehicle is used by the
named insured or with his permission or consent, express or
implied, and any other automobile not owned by the named
insured or any resident of the same household while being
operated by the named insured or his spouse if a resident of
the same household, but the term "insured motor vehicle"
shall not include any automobile while used as a public or
livery conveyance. The term "uninsured motor vehicle" means
a motor vehicle with respect to the ownership, maintenance or
use of which there is no bodily injury liability insurance or
bond applicable at the time of the accident, or there is such
applicable insurance or bond but the company writing the
same denies coverage thereunder or refuses to admit coverage
thereunder except conditionally or with reservation, or a motor
vehicle used without the permission of the owner thereof if
there is no bodily injury liability insurance or bond applicable
at the time of the accident with respect to the owner or op-
erator thereof, or the owner or operator thereof be unknown,
provided that, with respect to an "uninsured motor vehicle"
whose owner or operator is unknown:
   (1) The bodily injury has arisen out of physical contact of
such automobile with the insured or with an automobile which
the insured is occupying.
   (2) The insured or someone on his behalf shall have re-
ported the accident within 24 hours to the police department
of the city where the accident occurred or, if the accident
occurred in unincorporated territory then either to the sheriff
of the county where the accident occurred or the local head-
quarters of the California Highway Patrol, and have filed with
the insurer within 30 days thereafter a statement under oath
that the insured or his legal representative has or the insured's
heirs have a cause of action arising out of such accident for
damages against a person or persons whose identity is un-
ascertainable and set forth facts in support thereof. The term
"uninsured motor vehicle" shall not include an automobile
owned by the named insured or any resident of the same house-
2724              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQJj. I 3 5 3

hold or self-insured within the meaning of the safety respon-
sibility law of the state in which the motor vehicle is registered
or which is owned by the United States of America, Canada, a
state or political subdivision of any such government or an
agency of any of the foregoing, or a land motor vehicle or
trailer operated on rails or crawlertreads or while located for
use as a residence or premises and not as a vehicle, or a farm-
type tractor or equipment designed for use principally off pub-
lic roads, except while actually upon public roads.
   The term '' uninsured motor vehicle'' also means an insured
motor vehicle where the liability insurer thereof is unable to
to make payment with respect to the legal liability of its in-
sured within the limits specified therein because of insolvency.
An insurer's solvency protection shall be applicable only to
accidents occurring during a policy period in which its in-
sured's motor vehicle coverage is in effect where the liability
insurer of the tortfeasor becomes insolvent within one year
of such accident. In the event of payment to any person under
the coverage required by this section and subject to the terms
and conditions of such coverage, the insurer making such pay-
ment, shall to the extent thereof, be entitled to any proceeds
which may be recoverable from the assets of the insolvent
insurer through any settlement or judgment of such person
against the insolvent insurer.
    (c) The insurance coverage provided for in this section does
not apply:
   (1) To property damage sustained by the insured.
    (2) To bodily injury of the insured while in or upon or
while entering into or alighting from an automobile other than
the described automobile if the owner thereof has insurance
similar to that provided in this section.
   (3) To bodily injury of the insured with respect to which
the insured or his representative shall, without the written
consent of the insurer, make any settlement with or prosecute
to judgment any action against any person who may be legally
liable therefor.
    (4) In any instance where it would inure directly or in-
directly to the benefit of any workmen's compensation carrier
or to any person qualified as a self-insurer under any work-
men's compensation law.
   (5) To establish an exemption as provided in subdivisions
 (a), (b), and (e) of Section 16057 of the Vehicle Code.
   (6) To bodily injury of the insured while occupying a
motor vehicle owned by an insured, unless the occupied ve-
hicle is an insured motor vehicle.
   (7) To bodily injury of the insured when struck by a ve-
hicle owned by an insured.
    (d) Subject to paragraph ( c ) ( 2 ) , the policy or endorse-
ment may provide that if the insured has insurance available
to him under more than one uninsured motorist coverage pro-
vision, any damages shall not be deemed to exceed the higher
                    1969
Ch. 1353]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2725

 of the applicable limits of the respective coverages, and such
damages shall be prorated between the applicable coverages as
the limits of each coverage bears to the total of such limits.
    (e) The policy or endorsement added thereto may provide
that if the insured has valid and collectible automobile medi-
cal payment insurance available to him, the damages which he
shall be entitled to recover from the owner or operator of an
uninsured motor vehicle shall be reduced for purposes of
uninsured motorist coverage by the amounts paid or due to be
paid under such automobile medical payment insurance. This
subdivision shall become operative on January 1, 1971.
    (f) The policy or an endorsement added thereto shall pro-
vide that the determination as to whether the insured shall be
legally entitled to recover damages, and if so entitled, the
amount thereof, shall be made by agreement between the in-
sured and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by
arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted by a single
neutral arbitrator. An award or a judgment confirming an
award shall not be conclusive on any party in any action or
proceeding between (i) the insured, his insurer, his legal rep-
resentative, or his heirs and (ii) the uninsured motorist to
recover damages arising out of the accident upon which the
award is based. The provisions of Article 3 (commencing with
Section 2016) of Chapter 3 of Title 3 of Part 4 of the Code
of Civil Procedure shall be applicable to such determinations,
and all rights, remedies, obligations, liabilities and proce-
dures set forth in said Article 3 shall be available to both the
insured and the insurer at any time after the accident, both
before and after the commencement of arbitration, if any, with
the following limitations:
    (1) Whenever in said Article 3, reference is made to the
court in which the action is pending, or provision is made for
application to the court or obtaining leave of court or approval
by the court, the court which shall have jurisdiction for the
purposes of this section shall be the superior court of the
State of California, in and for any county which is a proper
county for the filing of a suit for bodily injury arising out of
the accident, against the uninsured motorist, or any county
specified in the policy or an endorsement added thereto as a
proper county for arbitration or action thereon.
   (2) Any such proper court to which application is first
made by either the insured or the insurer under the provisions
of said Article 3 for any discovery or other relief or remedy,
shall thereafter be the only court to which either of the parties
shall make any applications under said Article 3 with re-
spect to the same accident, subject, however, to the right of
such court to grant a change of venue after a hearing upon
notice, upon any of the grounds upon which change of venue
might be granted in an action filed in the superior court.
   (3) A deposition pursuant to the provisions of Section 2016
of the Code of Civil Procedure may be taken without leave of
2726              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1853

eourt, except that leave of court, granted with or without
notice and for good cause shown, must be obtained if the
notice of the taking of the deposition is served by either party
within 20 days after the accident.
   (4) The provisions of subparagraph (a) (4) of Section 2019
of the Code of Civil Procedure shall not be applicable to dis-
covery under this section.
   (5) For the purposes of discovery under this section, the
insured and the insurer shall each be deemed to be " a party
to the record of any civil action or proceedings," where that
phrase is used in subparagraph (b) (2) of Section 2019 of
the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (6) Interrogatories under the provisions of Section 2030 of
the Code of Civil Procedure and requests for admission under
Section 2033 may be served by either the insured or the in-
surer upon the other at any time more than 20 days after the
accident without leave of court.
   (7) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
rights of any party to discovery in any action pending or
which may hereafter be pending in any court.
   (g) The insurer paying a claim under an uninsured motorist
endorsement or coverage shall be entitled to be subrogated to
the rights of the insured to whom such claim was paid against
any person causing such injury or death to the extent that
payment was made. Such action may be brought within three
years from the date that payment was made hereunder.
   (h) An insured entitled to recovery under the uninsured
motorist endorsement or coverage shall be reimbursed within
the conditions stated herein without being required to sign any
release or waiver or rights to which he may be entitled under
any other insurance coverage applicable; nor shall payment
under this section to such insured be delayed or made contin-
gent upon the decisions as to liability or distribution of loss
costs under other bodily injury liability insurance or any bond
applicable to the accident. Any loss payable under the terms
of the uninsured motorist endorsement or coverage to or for
any person may be reduced:
   (1) By the amount paid and the present value of all
amounts payable to him under any workmen's compensation
law exclusive of nonoccupational disability benefits.
   (2) By the amounts paid or due to be paid under any valid
and collectible automobile medical payment insurance avail-
able to the insured. This paragraph shall remain in effect until
December 31, 1970, and shall have no force or effect after that
date.
   (3) By the amount the insured is entitled to recover from
any other person insured under the underlying liability insur-
ance policy of which the uninsured motorist endorsement or
coverage is a part.
   (i) No cause of action shall accrue to the insured under
any policy or endorsement provision issued pursuant to this
section unless within one year from the date of the accident:
                     l9M
Ch. 1353]                  &&GVL,AR SESSION                  272?

     (1) Suit for bodily injury has been filed against the un-
insured motorist, in a court of competent jurisdiction, or
     (2) Agreement as to the amount due under the policy has
been concluded, or
     (3) The insured has formally instituted arbitration pro-
ceedings.
     SEC. 3. Section 11580.2 of the Insurance Code is amended
 to read:
     11580.2. (a) No policy of bodily injury liability insurance
covering liability arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or
use of any motor vehicle, shall be issued or delivered in this
state to the owner or operator of a motor vehicle, or shall be
issued or delivered by any insurer licensed in this state upon
any motor vehicle then principally used or principally garaged
in this state, unless the policy contains, or has added to it by
endorsement, a provision with coverage limits at least equal to
the financial responsibility requirements specified in Section
16059 of the Vehicle Code insuring the insured, his heirs or
his legal representative for all sums within such limits which
he or they, as the case may be, shall be legally entitled to re-
cover as damages for bodily injury or wrongful death from
the owner or operator of an uninsured motor vehicle. The
insurer and any named insured, prior to or subsequent to the
issuance or renewal of a policy, may, by agreement in writ-
ing, delete the provision covering damage caused by an unin-
sured motor vehicle. Such deletion by any named insured shall
be binding upon every insured to whom such policy or en-
dorsement provisions apply. A policy shall be excluded from
the application of this section if the only coverage with re-
spect to the use of any motor vehicle is limited to the contin-
gent liability arising out of the use of nonowned motor
vehicles.
     (b) As used in (a) above, "bodily i n j u r y " includes sick-
ness or disease, including death, resulting therefrom; the term
"named insured" means only the individual or organization
named in the declarations of the policy of motor vehicle bodily
injury liability insurance referred to in (a) above; as used in
 (a) above the term " i n s u r e d " means the named insured and
the spouse of the named insured and relatives of either while
residents of the same household while occupants of a motor
vehicle or otherwise, heirs and any other person while in or
upon or entering into or alighting from an insured motor ve-
hicle and any person with respect to damages he is entitled to
recover for care or loss of services because of bodily injury to
which the policy provisions or endorsement apply; the term
' ' insured motor vehicle'' means the motor vehicle described in
the underlying insurance policy of which the uninsured motor-
ist endorsement or coverage is a part, a temporary substitute or
a newly acquired automobile for which liability coverage is
provided in the policy if the motor vehicle is used by the
named insured or with his permission or consent, express or
2728              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                r Q n 1353

implied, and any other automobile not owned by the named
insured or any resident of the same household while being
operated by the named insured or his spouse if a resident of
the same household, but the term "insured motor vehicle"
shall not include any automobile while used as a public or
livery conveyance. The term "uninsured motor vehicle" means
a motor vehicle with respect to the ownership, maintenance or
use of which there is no bodily injury liability insurance or
bond applicable at the time of the accident, or there is such
applicable insurance or bond but the company writing the
same denies coverage thereunder or refuses to admit coverage
thereunder except conditionally or with reservation, or a motor
vehicle used without the permission of the owner thereof if
there is no bodily injury liability insurance or bond applicable
at the time of the accident with respect to the owner or op-
erator thereof, or the owner or operator thereof be unknown,
provided that, with respect to an "uninsured motor vehicle"
whose owner or operator is unknown:
   (1) The bodily injury has arisen out of physical contact of
such automobile with the insured or with an automobile which
the insured is occupying.
   (2) The insured or someone on his behalf shall have re-
ported the accident within 24 hours to the police department
of the city where the accident occurred or, if the accident
occurred in unincorporated territory then either to the sheriff
of the county where the accident occurred or the local head-
quarters of the California Highway Patrol, and have filed with
the insurer within 30 days thereafter a statement under oath
that the insured or his legal representative has or the insured's
heirs have a cause of action arising out of such accident for
damages against a person or persons whose identity is un-
ascertainable and set forth facts in support thereof. The term
"uninsured motor vehicle" shall not include an automobile
owned by the named insured or any resident of the same house-
hold or self-insured within the meaning of the safety respon-
sibility law of the state in which the motor vehicle is registered
or which is owned by the United States of America, Canada, a
state or political subdivision of any such government or an
agency of any of the foregoing, or a land motor vehicle or
trailer operated on rails or crawlertreads or while located for
use as a residence or premises and not as a vehicle, or a farm-
type tractor or equipment designed for use principally off pub-
lic roads, except while actually upon public roads.
   The term "uninsured motor vehicle" also means an insured
motor vehicle where the liability insurer thereof is unable to
to make payment with respect to the legal liability of its in-
sured within the limits specified therein because of insolvency.
An insurer's solvency protection shall be applicable only to
accidents occurring during a policy period in which its in-
sured's motor vehicle coverage is in effect where the liability
insurer of the tortfeasor becomes insolvent within one year
Ch. 1353]           !969 REGULAR SESSION                   2729

of such accident. In the event of payment to any person under
the coverage required by this section and subject to the terms
and conditions of such coverage, the insurer making such pay-
ment, shall to the extent thereof, be entitled to any proceeds
which may be recoverable from the assets of the insolvent
insurer through any settlement or judgment of such person
against the insolvent insurer.
   (c) The insurance coverage provided for in this section does
not apply:
   (1) To property damage sustained by the insured.
   (2) To bodily injury of the insured while in or upon or
while entering into or alighting from an automobile other than
the described automobile if the owner thereof has insurance
similar to that provided in this section.
   (3) To bodily injury of the insured with respect to which
the insured or his representative shall, without the written
consent of the insurer, make any settlement with or prosecute
to judgment any action against any person who may be legally
liable therefor.
   (4) In any instance where it would inure directly or in-
directly to the benefit of any workmen's compensation carrier
or to any person qualified as a self-insurer under any work-
men's compensation law.
   (5) To establish an exemption as provided in subdivisions
 (a), (b), and (c) of Section 16057 of the Vehicle Code.
   (6) To bodily injury of the insured while occupying a
motor vehicle owned by an insured, unless the occupied ve-
hicle is an insured motor vehicle.
   (7) To bodily injury of the insured when struck by a ve-
hicle owned by an insured.
   (d) Subject to paragraph ( c ) ( 2 ) , the policy or endorse-
ment may provide that if the insured has insurance available
to him under more than one uninsured motorist coverage pro-
vision, any damages shall not be deemed to exceed the higher
of the applicable limits of the respective coverages, and such
damages shall be prorated between the applicable coverages as
the limits of each coverage bears to the total of such limits.
   (e) The policy or endorsement added thereto may provide
that if the insured has valid and collectible automobile medical
payment insurance available to him, the damages which he
shall be entitled to recover from the owner or operator of an
uninsured motor vehicle shall be reduced for purposes of un-
insured motorist coverage by the amounts paid or due to be
paid under such automobile medical payment insurance. This
subdivision shall become operative on January 1, 1971.
   (f) The policy or an endorsement added thereto shall pro-
vide that the determination as to whether the insured shall be
legally entitled to recover damages, and if so entitled, the
amount thereof, shall be made by agreement between the in-
sured and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by
arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted by a single
neutral arbitrator. The provisions of Article 3 (commencing
2730               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo 1 3 5 3

 with Section 2016) of Chapter 3 of Title 3 of P a r t 4 of the
 Code of Civil Procedure shall be applicable to such determi-
 nations, and all rights, remedies, obligations, liabilities and
 procedures set forth in said Article 3 shall be available to both
 the insured and the insurer at any time after the accident,
 both before and after the commencement of arbitration, if
 any, with the following limitations:
    (1) "Whenever in said Article 3, reference is made to the
 court in which the action is pending, or provision is made for
 application to the court or obtaining leave of court or approval
 by the court, the court which shall have jurisdiction for the
 purposes of this section shall be the superior court of the
 State of California, in and for any county which is a proper
 county for the filing of a suit for bodily injury arising out of
 the accident, against the uninsured motorist, or any county
 specified in the policy or an endorsement added thereto as a
 proper county for arbitration or action thereon.
    (2) Any such proper court to which application is first
 made by either the insured or the insurer under the provisions
 of said Article 3 for any discovery or other relief or remedy,
 shall thereafter be the only court to which either of the parties
 shall make any applications under said Article 3 with re-
 spect to the same accident, subject, however, to the right of
 such court to grant a change of venue after a hearing upon
 notice, upon any of the grounds upon which change of venue
 might be granted in an action filed in the superior court.
    (3) A deposition pursuant to the provisions of Section 2016
 of the Code of Civil Procedure may be taken without leave of
 court, except that leave of court, granted with or without
 notice and for good cause shown, must be obtained if the
notice of the taking of the deposition is served by either party
within 20 days after the accident.
    (4) The provisions of subparagraph (a) (4) of Section 2019
of the Code of Civil Procedure shall not be applicable to dis-
covery under this section.
    (5) For the purposes of discovery under this section, the
insured and the insurer shall each be deemed to be " a party
to the record of any civil action or proceedings," where that
phrase is used in subparagraph (b) (2) of Section 2019 of
the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (6) Interrogatories under the provisions of Section 2030 of
the Code of Civil Procedure and requests for admission under
Section 2033 may be served by either the insured or the in-
surer upon the other at any time more than 20 days after the
accident without leave of court.
   (7) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
rights of any party to discovery in any action pending or
which may hereafter be pending in any court.
   (g) The insurer paying a claim under an uninsured motorist
endorsement or coverage shall be entitled to be subrogated to
the rights of the insured to whom such claim was paid against
                    1969
Ch. 13531                  REGULAR SESSION                  2731

any person causing such injury or death to the extent that
payment was made. Such action may be brought within three
years from the date that payment was made hereunder.
   (h) An insured entitled to recovery under the uninsured
motorist endorsement or coverage shall be reimbursed within
the conditions stated herein without being required to sign any
release or waiver or rights to which he may be entitled under
any other insurance coverage applicable; nor shall payment
under this section to such insured be delayed or made contin-
gent upon the decisions as to liability or distribution of loss
costs under other bodily injury liability insurance or any bond
applicable to the accident. Any loss payable under the terms
of the uninsured motorist endorsement or coverage to or for
any person may be reduced:
   (1) By the amount paid and the present value of all
amounts payable to him under any workmen's compensation
law exclusive of nonoccupational disability benefits.
   (2) By the amounts paid or due to be paid under any valid
and collectible automobile medical payment insurance avail-
able to the insured. This paragraph shall remain in effect until
December 31, 1970, and shall have no force or effect after that
date.
   (3) By the amount the insured is entitled to recover from
any other person insured under the underlying liability insur-
ance policy of which the uninsured motorist endorsement or
coverage is a part.
   (i) No cause of action shall accrue to the insured under
any policy or endorsement provision issued pursuant to this
section unless within one year from the date of the accident:
   (1) Suit for bodily injury has been filed against the un-
insured motorist, in a court of competent jurisdiction, or
   (2) Agreement as to the amount due under the policy has
been concluded, or
   (3) The insured has formally instituted arbitration pro-
ceedings.
   (j) Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (i), any
insurer whose insured has made a claim under his or her un-
insured motorist coverage, and such claim is pending, shall, at
least 30 days before the expiration of the applicable statute
of limitation, notify its insured in writing of the statute of
limitation applicable to such injury or death. Failure of the
insurer to provide such written notice shall operate to toll
any applicable statute of limitation or other time limitation
for a period of 30 days from the date such written notice is
actually given.
   SEC. 4. Section 11580.2 of the Insurance Code is amended
to read:
   11580.2. (a) No policy of bodily injury liability insurance
covering liability arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or
use of any motor vehicle, shall be issued or delivered in this
state to the owner or operator of a motor vehicle, or shall be
2732               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQfo 1 3 5 3

issued or delivered by any insurer licensed in this state upon
any motor vehicle then principally used or principally garaged
in this state, unless the policy contains, or has added to it by
endorsement, a provision with coverage limits at least equal to
the financial responsibility requirements specified in Section
16059 of the Vehicle Code insuring the insured, his heirs or
his legal representative for all sums within such limits which
he or they, as the case may be, shall be legally entitled to re-
cover as damages for bodily injury or wrongful death from
the owner or operator of an uninsured motor vehicle. The
insurer and any named insured, prior to or subsequent to the
issuance or renewal of a policy, may, by agreement in writ-
ing, delete the provision covering damage caused by an unin-
sured motor vehicle. Such deletion by any named insured shall
be binding upon every insured to whom such policy or en-
dorsement provisions apply. A policy shall be excluded from
the application of this section if the only coverage with re-
spect to the use of any motor vehicle is limited to the contin-
gent liability arising out of the use of nonowned motor
vehicles.
     (b) As used in (a) above, "bodily i n j u r y " includes sick-
ness or disease, including death, resulting therefrom; the term
"named insured" means only the individual or organization
named in the declarations of the policy of motor vehicle bodily
injury liability insurance referred to in (a) above; as used in
 (a) above the term " i n s u r e d " means the named insured and
the spouse of the named insured and relatives of either while
residents of the same household while occupants of a motor
vehicle or otherwise, heirs and any other person while in or
upon or entering into or alighting from an insured motor ve-
hicle and any person with respect to damages he is entitled to
recover for care or loss of services because of bodily injury to
which the policy provisions or endorsement apply; the term
' ' insured motor vehicle'' means the motor vehicle described in
the underlying insurance policy of which the uninsured motor-
ist endorsement or coverage is a part, a temporary substitute or
a newly acquired automobile for which liability coverage is
provided in the policy if the motor vehicle is used by the
named insured or with his permission or consent, express or
implied, and any other automobile not owned by the named
insured or any resident of the same household while being
operated by the named insured or his spouse if a resident of
the same household, but the term "insured motor vehicle"
shall not include any automobile while used as a public or
livery conveyance. The term '' uninsured motor vehicle'' means
a motor vehicle with respect to the ownership, maintenance or
use of which there is no bodily injury liability insurance or
bond applicable at the time of the accident, or there is such
applicable insurance or bond but the company writing the
same denies coverage thereunder or refuses to admit coverage
thereunder except conditionally or with reservation, or a motor
                      1969
Ch. 1353]                    REGULAR SESSION                  2733

  vehicle used without the permission of the owner thereof if
  there is no bodily injury liability insurance or bond applicable
  at the time of the accident with respect to the owner or op-
  erator thereof, or the owner or operator thereof be unknown,
  provided that, with respect to an "uninsured motor vehicle"
  whose owner or operator is unknown:
     (1) The bodily injury has arisen out of physical contact of
  such automobile with the insured or with an automobile which
  the insured is occupying.
     (2) The insured or someone on his behalf shall have re-
  ported the accident within 24 hours to the police department
  of the city where the accident occurred or, if the accident
  occurred in unincorporated territory then, either to the sheriff
  of the county where the accident occurred or the local head-
  quarters of the California Highway Patrol, and have filed with
  the insurer within 30 days thereafter a statement under oath
  that the insured or his legal representative has or the insured's
  heirs have a cause of action arising out of such accident for
  damages against a person or persons whose identity is un-
  ascertainable and set forth facts in support thereof. The term
  "uninsured motor vehicle" shall not include an automobile
  owned by the named insured or any resident of the same house-
  hold or self-insured within the meaning of the safety respon-
  sibility law of the state in which the motor vehicle is registered
, or which is owned by the United States of America, Canada, a
  state or political subdivision of any such government or an
  agency of any of the foregoing, or a land motor vehicle or
  trailer operated on rails or crawlertreads or while located for
  use as a residence or premises and not as a vehicle, or a farm-
  type tractor or equipment designed for use principally off pub-
  lic roads, except while actually upon public roads.
     The term "uninsured motor vehicle" also means an insured
  motor vehicle where the liability insurer thereof is unable to
  to make payment with respect to the legal liability of its in-
  sured within the limits specified therein because of insolvency.
  An insurer's solvency protection shall be applicable only to
  accidents occurring during a policy period in which its in-
  sured's motor vehicle coverage is in effect where the liability
  insurer of the tortfeasor becomes insolvent within one year
  of such accident. In the event of payment to any person under
  the coverage required by this section and subject to the terms
  and conditions of such coverage, the insurer making such pay-
  ment, shall to the extent thereof, be entitled to any proceeds
  which may be recoverable from the assets of the insolvent
  insurer through any settlement or judgment of such person
  against the insolvent insurer.
      (c) The insurance coverage provided for in this section does
  not apply:
      (1) To property damage sustained by the insured.
      (2) To bodily injury of the insured while in or upon or
  while entering into or alighting from an automobile other than
2734              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQ]1_ I 3 5 3

the described automobile if the owner thereof has insurance
similar to that provided in this section.
   (3) To bodily injury of the insured with respect to which
the insured or his representative shall, without the written
consent of the insurer, make any settlement with or prosecute
to judgment any action against any person who may be legally
liable therefor.
   (4) In any instance where it would inure directly or in-
directly to the benefit of any workmen's compensation carrier
or to any person qualified as a self-insurer under any work-
men's compensation law.
   (5) To establish an exemption as provided in subdivisions
 (a), (b), and (c) of Section 16057 of the Vehicle Code.
   (6) To bodily injury of the insured while occupying a
motor vehicle owned by an insured, unless the occupied ve-
hicle is an insured motor vehicle.
   (7) To bodily injury of the insured when struck by a ve-
hicle owned by an insured.
   (d) Subject to paragraph (c)(2), the policy or endorse-
ment may provide that if the insured has insurance available
to him under more than one uninsured motorist coverage pro-
vision, any damages shall not be deemed to exceed the higher
of the applicable limits of the respective coverages, and such
damages shall be prorated between the applicable coverages as
the limits of each coverage bears to the total of such limits.
   (e) The policy or endorsement added thereto may provide
that if the insured has valid and collectible automobile medical
payment insurance available to him, the damages which he
shall be entitled to recover from the owner or operator of an
uninsured motor vehicle shall be reduced for purposes of un-
insured motorist coverage by the amounts paid or due to be
paid under such automobile medical payment insurance. This
subdivision shall become operative on January 1, 1971.
   (f) The policy or an endorsement added thereto shall pro-
vide that the determination as to whether the insured shall be
legally entitled to recover damages, and if so entitled, the
amount thereof, shall be made by agreement between the in-
sured and the insurer or, in the event of disagreement, by
arbitration. The arbitration shall be conducted by a single
neutral arbitrator. An award or a judgment confirming an
award shall not be conclusive on any party in any action or
proceeding between (i) the insured, his insurer, his legal rep-
resentative, or his heirs and (ii) the uninsured motorist to
recover damages arising out of the accident upon which the
award is based. The provisions of Article 3 (commencing with
Section 2016) of Chapter 3 of Title 3 of P a r t 4 of the Code
of Civil Procedure shall be applicable to such determinations,
and all rights, remedies, obligations, liabilities and proce-
dures set forth in said Article 3 shall be available to both the
insured and the insurer at any time after the accident, both
before and after the commencement of arbitration, if any, with
the following limitations:
                    1969
Ch. 1353]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2735

    (1) Whenever in said Article 3, reference is made to the
court in which the action is pending, or provision is made for
application to the court or obtaining leave of court or approval
by the court, the court which shall have jurisdiction for the
purposes of this section shall be the superior court of the
State of California, in and for any county which is a proper
county for the filing of a suit for bodily injury arising out of
the accident, against the uninsured motorist, or any county
specified in the policy or an endorsement added thereto as a
proper county for arbitration or action thereon.
   (2) Any such proper court to which application is first
made by either the insured or the insurer under the provisions
of said Article 3 for any discovery or other relief or remedy,
shall thereafter be the only court to which either of the parties
shall make any applications under said Article 3 with re-
spect to the same accident, subject, however, to the right of
such court to grant a change of venue after a hearing upon
notice, upon any of the grounds upon which change of venue
might be granted in an action filed in the superior court.
   (3) A deposition pursuant to the provisions of Section 2016
of the Code of Civil Procedure may be taken without leave of
court, except that leave of court, granted with or without
notice and for good cause shown, must be obtained if the
notice of the taking of the deposition is served by either party
within 20 days after the accident.
   (4) The provisions of subparagraph (a) (4) of Section 2019
of the Code of Civil Procedure shall not be applicable to dis-
covery under this section.
   (5) For the purposes of discovery under this section, the
insured and the insurer shall each be deemed to be " a party
to the record of any civil action or proceedings," where that
phrase is used in subparagraph (b) (2) of Section 2019 of
the Code of Civil Procedure.
   (6) Interrogatories under the provisions of Section 2030 of
the Code of Civil Procedure and requests for admission under
Section 2033 may be served by either the insured or the in-
surer upon the other at any time more than 20 days after the
accident without leave of court.
   (7) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
rights of any party to discovery in any action pending or
which may hereafter be pending in any court.
   (g) The insurer paying a claim under an uninsured motorist
endorsement or coverage shall be entitled to be subrogated to
the rights of the insured to whom such claim was paid against
any person causing such injury or death to the extent that
payment was made. Such action may be brought within three
years from the date that payment was made hereunder.
   (h) An insured entitled to recovery under the uninsured
motorist endorsement or coverage shall be reimbursed within
the conditions stated herein without being required to sign any
release or waiver or rights to which he may be entitled under
any other insurance coverage applicable; nor shall payment
2736              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              m ^ . 1353

under this section to such insured be delayed or made contin-
gent upon the decisions as to liability or distribution of loss
costs under other bodily injury liability insurance or any bond
applicable to the accident. Any loss payable under the terms
of the uninsured motorist endorsement or coverage to or for
any person may be reduced:
   (1) By the amount paid and the present value of all
amounts payable to him under any workmen's compensation
law exclusive of nonoccupational disability benefits.
   (2) By the amounts paid or due to be paid under any valid
and collectible automobile medical payment insurance avail-
able to the insured. This paragraph shall remain in effect until
December 31, 1970, and shall have no force or effect after that
date.
   (3) By the amount the insured is entitled to recover from
any other person insured under the underlying liability insur-
ance policy of which the uninsured motorist endorsement or
coverage is a part.
   (i) No cause of action shall accrue to the insured under
any policy or endorsement provision issued pursuant to this
section unless within one year from the date of the accident:
   (1) Suit for bodily injury has been filed against the un-
insured motorist, in a court of competent jurisdiction, or
   (2) Agreement as to the amount due under the policy has
been concluded, or
   (3) The insured has formally instituted arbitration pro-
ceedings.
   (j) Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (i), any
insurer whose insured has made a claim under his or her un-
insured motorist coverage, and such claim is pending, shall, at
least 30 days before the expiration of the applicable statute
of limitation, notify its insured in writing of the statute of
limitation applicable to such injury or death. Failure of the
insurer to provide such written notice shall operate to toll
any applicable statute of limitation or other time limitation
for a period of 30 days from the date such written notice is
actually given.
   SEC. 5. Except as otherwise provided in Section 7, it is
the intent of the Legislature, if amendments to Section 11580.2
of the Insurance Code proposed by both this bill and A.B.
1398 are enacted, that both amendments be given effect and
incorporated in Section 11580.2 in the form set forth in Section
2 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 1398 is enacted and
amends Section 11580.2, Section 2 of this act shall become
operative at the same time that Section 11580.2 as amended by
A.B. 1398 becomes operative, and at that time, Section 11580.2
of the Insurance Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is
repealed.
   SEC. 6. Except as otherwise provided in Section 7, it is
the intent of the Legislature, if amendments to Section 11580.2
of the Insurance Code proposed by both this bill and S.B. 643
                       1969
Ch. 1354]                     REGULAR SESSION                    2737

are enacted, that both amendments be given effect and incorpo-
rated in Section 11580.2 in the form set forth in Section 3 of
this act. Therefore, in the event S.B. 643 is enacted and amends
Section 11580.2, Section 3 of this act shall become operative
at the same time that Section 11580.2 as amended by S.B. 643
becomes operative, and at that time, Section 11580.2 of the
Insurance Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 7. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 11580.2 of the Insurance Code proposed by both
this bill and A.B. 1398 and S.B. 643 are enacted, that all three
amendments be given effect and incorporated in Section
11580.2 in the form set forth in Section 4 of this act. There-
fore, in the event A.B. 1398 and S.B. 643 are enacted and
amend Section 11580.2, Section 4 of this act shall become op-
erative at the same time that Section 11580.2 as amended by
A.B. 1398 and S.B. 643 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 11580.2 of the Insurance Code as amended by Sections
1, 2, and 3 of this act is repealed.


                          CHAPTER 1354
An act to amend Sections 681, 681.4, 682.2, and 682.8 of, and
  to add Section 663.7 to, the Harbors and Navigation Code,
  relating to vessels, and making an appropriation  therefor.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 19 69. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows :

   SECTION 1. Section 663.7 is added to the Harbors and Navi-
gation Code, to read:
   663.7. (a) Each county of the state is entitled to receive
state financial aid for boating safety and enforcement pro-
grams on waters under its jurisdiction as provided in this
section. A boating safety and enforcement program as used
in this section includes search and rescue operations, recovery
of drowned bodies, enforcement of state and local measures for
regulation of boating activities, inspection of vessels, and su-
pervision of organized water events.
   (b) An entity other than a county is entitled to receive
aid for boating safety and enforcement programs on waters
under its jurisdiction through the county in which it lies, and
such aid shall be counted as aid to such county; except that
aid for boating safety and enforcement programs of the De-
partment of Parks and Recreation for waters under its juris-
diction shall not be counted as aid to a county.
   (c) The amount of aid for which a county or other entity
or agency is eligible under this chapter shall not exceed the
total cost of its boating safety and enforcement program needs,
less the moneys derived from personal property taxes on boats
2738               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1354

 and fees charged for boating activities, as determined in ac-
 cordance with a formula prescribed by the department. The
 department's formula shall specify the number of square miles
 of boating waters and the amount of boat use which will re-
 quire one safety patrol unit and shall express such unit in
 terms of its cost.
     (d) Aid for boating safety and enforcement programs shall
 be made available to the Department of Parks and Kecreation
 for waters under its jurisdiction in accordance with this sec-
 tion. In keeping with the formula provided for in subdivision
  (c) of this section, the department shall reimburse the De-
 partment of Parks and Recreation for the actual cost of its
 boating safety and enforcement programs conducted during
 the period from January 1, 1970, to June 30, 1970; provided,
 that the total amount of such aid shall not exceed the sum of
 fifty thousand dollars ($50,000).
     (e) Entities or agencies desiring aid under the provisions
 of this section shall submit applications to the department at
 least six months prior to the period for which aid is required.
 Applications shall be in such form and contain such informa-
 tion as the department may require.
     (f) Within 90 days after the close of any period for which
 aid is received, the entity or agency shall submit to the depart-
 ment a statement of the expenditures actually incurred, in
 such form and containing such information as the department
 may require.
     (g) The department shall be responsible for the administra-
 tion of the provisions of this section, and may adopt such rules
 and regulations as may be necessary to carry out its provisions.
 The department shall make periodic evaluations of the effec-
 tiveness of programs receiving aid under this section.
    SEC. 2. Section 681 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
is amended to read:
    681. The owner of each vessel requiring numbering by this
state shall file an initial application for number with the de-
partment at its Sacramento office or an agent authorized by
the department on forms approved by the commission. The
application shall contain the name and address of the owner,
and of the legal owner if any, and the builder's hull number
or any hull number of the vessel as may be required by the
department. The application shall be signed by the owner of
the vessel and shall be accompanied by a fee of five dollars
 ($5) ; except that initial application for numbers made dur-
ing 1971 shall be accompanied by a fee of four dollars ($4).
Upon receipt of the application in approved form, the depart-
ment shall issue a certificate of ownership to the legal owner
and a certificate of number to the owner, or both to the owner
if there is no legal owner, stating the number issued to the
vessel and the name and address of the owner. The owner
shall paint on or attach to each side of the bow of the vessel
the identification number in such manner as may be pre-
                    1969
Ch. 13541                  REGULAR SESSION                  2739

scribed by rules and regulations of the commission in order
that it may be clearly visible. The number shall be maintained
 in a legible condition. The certificate of number shall be
pocket size and shall be available at all times for inspection on
the vessel for which issued, whenever such vessel is in opera-
tion. The department may issue one or more stickers, tabs or
other suitable devices to identify vessels as being currently
registered. The size, shape, and color of such sticker, tab, or
other device and the positioning of such on the vessel shall be
as determined by the commission.
   SEC. 3. Section 681.4 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
is amended to read:
   681.4. If the ownership of an undocumented vessel
changes, the existing certificate of ownership and a new ap-
plication form accompanied by a fee of five dollars ($5) shall
be filed with the department and a new certificate of owner-
ship and a new certificate of number shall be issued in the
same manner as provided for in the initial issuance of number
and the number shall be reassigned to the new owner.
   SEC. 4. Section 682.2 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
is amended to read:
   682.2. Certificates of number shall be renewed by the
owner between January 1, 1969, and February 4, 1969, be-
tween January 1, 1972, and February 4, 1972, and between
January 1 and February 4 every year thereafter, by presenta-
tion of the certificate of number last issued for the vessel or
by presentation of a potential registration card issued by the
department. The fee for renewal shall be three dollars ($3)
up to December 31, 1971, and two dollars ($2) per year there-
after and shall accompany the request for such renewal.
   SEC. 5. Section 682.8 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
is amended to read:
   682.8. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b) of this
section, all fees received, other than moneys collected under
Section 685.2, pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited in
the Harbors and Watercraft Revolving F u n d and are appro-
priated for the administration of this article. The Department
of Harbors and "Watercraft shall reimburse the Department of
Motor Vehicles for its actual expenses incurred in function-
ing as an agent of the Department of Harbors and Watercraft
pursuant to Section 681.9. Any money in the fund which is
not expended for the administration of this article shall be
expended in accordance with Section 85.2 of this code.
   (b) All money derived from the increase in fees required
pursuant to this chapter by the amendment of Sections 681,
681.4, 682.2, and 682.8 enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of
the Legislature shall be deposited in the Harbors and Water-
craft Revolving F u n d and is continuously appropriated for
support of local boating safety and enforcement programs as
provided in Section 663.7 of this code.
2740              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Cft 1 3 5 5

   SEC. 6. The Department of Harbors and "Watercraft shall
conduct a study of the feasibility of placing' with the several
counties and other local governmental agencies the full respon-
sibility of patrolling waterways presently being patrolled by
the Department of Parks and Recreation and conducting law
enforcement operations thereon. The department shall report
the results of the study to the Legislature on or before Febru-
ary 1, 1970.

                      CHAPTER 1355
An act to amend Section 62492 of, and to add Sections
  62707.2 and 62707.3 to, the Agricultural Code, and to repeal
 Section 58656 of the Agricultural Code as proposed oy As-
  sembly Bill No. 289, relating to marketing of milk.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The, people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 58656 of the Agricultural Code, as pro-
posed to be added by Assembly Bill No. 289, is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 62492 of the Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
   62492. The director shall terminate the minimum whole-
sale and minimum retail prices in effect in any marketing area
without notice or hearing at any time that there ceases to be
a stabilization and marketing plan in force and effect in such
marketing area, unless there is in effect in such marketing
area a marketing order, applicable to fluid milk, issued under
the provisions of the California Marketing Act of 1937 (Chap-
ter 1 (commencing with Section 58601) of Part 2 of Division
21) or unless minimum prices payable by distributors to pro-
ducers for fluid milk in such marketing area or any portion
thereof are subject to a federal milk marketing agreement or
order, or to proceedings then pending before the Secretary of
Agriculture for establishment of such federal milk marketing
agreement or order. In the event minimum prices payable by
distributors to producers for fluid milk in such marketing area
or any portion thereof are subject to a federal milk marketing
agreement or order, or to pending proceedings therefor, the
director shall continue to prescribe and enforce minimum
wholesale and minimum retail prices for fluid milk in such
marketing area pursuant to the declaration and statement of
facts, policy and provisions thereof, and particularly the pro-
visions of this article, with the exception that in determining
such minimum wholesale and minimum retail prices, the cost
of raw product as provided for in subdivision (d) of Section
62479 shall be the adjusted prices payable by distributors to
producers for fluid milk as provided for in the federal milk
marketing agreement or order applicable to such marketing
                       1969
Ch. 1356]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2741

area, or, in the event proceedings for such federal milk market-
ing agreement or order are then pending but not complete,
such cost of raw product shall continue to be, until the federal
milk marketing agreement or order for such area becomes
effective, the last minimum producer prices established by the
director in a stabilization and marketing plan for such area
prior to termination of such plan. In the event the production
of fluid milk in such marketing area is subject to a marketing
order issued under the California Marketing Act of 1937, the
cost of raw product as provided in subdivision (d) of Section
62479 shall be the prices established by the director or prevail-
ing in such area for fluid milk purchased by distributors from
producers.
   SEC. 3. Section 1 of this act shall become operative only
if Assembly Bill No. 289 is enacted by the Legislature at the
1969 Regular Session.

                          CHAPTER 1356
An act to add Sections 13066 and 13951 to the Water Code,
  relating to the disposition of sewage in the Lake Tahoe
  watershed, and making an appropriation therefor, and de-
  claring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Piled with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 13066 is added to the "Water Code, to
read:
  13066. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on or
after January 1, 1972, all sewage or other waste from within
the Lake Tahoe watershed shall be placed only into a sewer
system and treatment facilities sufficient to handle and treat
any such sewage or waste and transportation facilities suffi-
cient to transport any resultant sewage effluent outside the
Lake Tahoe watershed, except that such sewage or other waste
may be placed in a holding tank which is pumped and trans-
ported to such treatment and transportation facilities.
   As used in this section "other waste" shall not include
solid waste refuse.
  The further maintenance or use of cesspools, septic tanks,
or other means of sewage or other waste disposal in the Lake
Tahoe watershed on or after January 1, 1972, by any person,
except as permitted pursuant to this section, is a public nui-
sance. The occupancy of any building from which sewage or
other waste is discharged in violation of this section is a public
nuisance, and an action may be brought to enjoin any person
from occupying any such building.
   This section shall not be applicable to a particular area of
the Lake Tahoe watershed whenever the regional board for
2742               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Q^ 1356

 the Lahontan region finds that the continued operation of
 septic tanks, cesspools, or other means of waste disposal in
 such area will not, individually or collectively, directly or in-
 directly, affect the quality of the waters of Lake Tahoe and
 that the sewering of such area would have a damaging effect
 upon the environment.
    This section shall not affect the applicability of Section
  13065.
    SEC. 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 3 (com-
  mencing with Section 13125) of Chapter 5 of Division 7 of the
  "Water Code, or any other provision of law, the Tahoe City
  Public Utility District may enter into a contract with the State
  Water Resources Control Board during the 1969-1970 fiscal
 year for a construction loan under Chapter 5 (commencing
 with Section 13100) of Division 7 of the Water Code in an
  amount not to exceed two million dollars ($2,000,000) and
 shall not be required to hold any election on the proposition
  of whether or not the district shall enter into such contract.
    SEC. 3. The sum of five hundred thousand dollars
  ($500,000) is hereby appropriated from the State "Water
 Quality Control Fund, from money deposited therein pursu-
 ant to Section 12.2 of Chapter 138, Statutes of 1964, First
 Extraordinary Session, to the State Water Resources Control
 Board for expenditure, without regard to fiscal years, for a
 loan to the North Tahoe Public Utility District of such amounts
 as the board determines is necessary, together with other funds
 available for such purpose, to permit such district to construct
 necessary sewage and storm drainage facilities to prevent and
 control water pollution in the north Lake Tahoe area served
 by such district. The provisions of Sections 13125 and 13126 of
 the Water Code shall not apply to any loan made pursuant to
 this section.
    SEC. 4. No part of the appropriation made by this act
 shall be available for loan to the North Tahoe Public Utility
District unless the North Tahoe Public Utility District executes
an agreement with the State Water Resources Control Board
under which it agrees to repay the amount of its loan, with
interest, within 25 years following a 10-year moratorium on
principal payments, and with the interest to be at a rate equal
to the average, as determined by the board, of the net-interest
costs to the state on the sales of general obligation bonds of the
state that occurred during the calendar year immediately pre-
ceding the calendar year in which the interest falls due, dur-
ing the moratorium on principal payments, with interest
thereafter to be payable at the last rate applied during the
moratorium; provided, that when the applicable average of the
net-interest costs to the state is not a multiple of one-tenth of
1 percent, the interest rate shall be at the multiple of one-tenth
of 1 percent next above the applicable average of the net-inter-
est costs.
                     1969
Ch. 1356]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2743

   SEC. 5. The State Water Resources Control Board shall
require the procedure, forms, and the submission of any in-
formation from the North Tahoe Public Utility District it may
deem necessary or appropriate.
   SEC. 6. All money received in repayment of loans under
this act shall be paid to the State Treasurer and credited to
the State "Water Quality Control Fund.
   SEC. 7. This act, applicable only to the watershed of Lake
 Tahoe, is necessary to meet the unique problems of water
 quality control presented by the population growth and devel-
opment of the area in relation to Lake Tahoe's geographic lo-
 cation and the necessity to export any waste produced in the
area out of the Lake Tahoe Basin. Section 2 of this act, which
is applicable only to the Tahoe City Public Utility District, is
necessary to permit a state loan to be made to the district for
the construction with the least possible delay of facilities neces-
sary to make possible the transportation of such waste out of
the Lake Tahoe Basin.
   SEC. 8. Section 13951 is added to the Water Code, to read:
   13951. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, on or
after January 1, 1972, waste from within the Lake Tahoe
watershed shall be placed only into a sewer system and treat-
ment facilities sufficient to handle and treat any such waste
and transportation facilities sufficient to transport any result-
ant effluent outside the Lake Tahoe watershed, except that
such waste may be placed in a holding tank which is pumped
and transported to such treatment and transportation facili-
ties.
   As used in this section " w a s t e " shall not include solid
waste refuse.
   The further maintenance or use of cesspools, septic tanks,
or other means of waste disposal in the Lake Tahoe watershed
on or after January 1, 1972, by any person, except as per-
mitted pursuant to this section, is a public nuisance. The
occupancy of any building from which waste is discharged in
violation of this section is a public nuisance, and an action may
be brought to enjoin any person from occupying any such
building.
   This section shall not be applicable to a particular area of
the Lake Tahoe watershed whenever the regional board for the
Lahontan region finds that the continued operation of septic
tanks, cesspools, or other means of waste disposal in such area
will not, individually or collectively, directly or indirectly,
affect the quality of the waters of Lake Tahoe and that the
sewering of such area would have a damaging effect upon
the environment.
   This section shall not affect the applicability of Section
13950.
   SEC. 9. Section 8 of this act shall become operative only
if Division 7 of the Water Code, as proposed by Assembly
Bill No. 413, is enacted by the Legislature at its 1969 Regular
2744               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQ}1_ 1 3 5 7

Session and in such case at the same time as Assembly Bill
No. 413 becomes operative, and at that time, Section 13066
of the Water Code as added by Section 1 of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 10. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article I V of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
 • In order to insure the construction by the Tahoe City Public
Utility District with the least possible delay of facilities neces-
sary to make possible the transportation of waste out of the
 Lake Tahoe Basin it is necessary that the Tahoe City Public
Utility District immediately enter into a contract for a con-
struction loan. In order to permit the district to immediately
 enter into such a contract it is necessary that this act go into
immediate effect.

                        CHAPTER 1357
An act to amend Section 1324 of the Penal Code, relating to
                 criminal investigations.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1324 of the Penal Code is amended
to read:
   1324. (a) In any felony proceeding, in any investigation
or proceeding before a grand jury for any felony offense, or
in any investigation of a criminal organization or organized
crime and its activities conducted by the Attorney General, if
a person refuses to answer a question or produce evidence of
any other kind on the ground that he may be incriminated
thereby, and if the district attorney of the county or the At-
torney General in writing requests the superior court for that
county to order that person to answer the question or produce
the evidence, a judge of the superior court shall set a time for
hearing and order the person to appear before the court and
show cause, if any, why the question should not be answered
or the evidence produced, and the court shall order the ques-
tion answered or the evidence produced unless it finds that to
do so would be clearly contrary to the public interest, or could
subject the witness to a criminal prosecution in another
jurisdiction, and that person shall comply with the order.
After complying, and if, but for this section, he would have
been privileged to withhold the answer given or the evidence
produced by him, that person shall not be prosecuted or sub-
jected to penalty or forfeiture for or on account of any fact
or act concerning which, in accordance with the order, he was
required to answer or produce evidence. But he may never-
                      1969
Ch. 1358]                    REGULAR SESSION                    2745

theless be prosecuted or subjected to penalty or forfeiture for
any perjury, false swearing or contempt committed in answer-
ing, or failing to answer, or in producing, or failing to pro-
duce, evidence in accordance with the order.
   (b) As used in this section, "criminal organization" means
the formation into a functioning whole of a group of people
unified for the purpose of performing together, through
planning and coordination of individual effort, continuing
activities, a substantial portion of which activities are illegal.
Indicative that a group of persons constitutes a criminal orga-
nization are the following important, though not indispensable,
factors: the continuation of activity by the organization,
though its personnel may change, and the formation of lines
of authority in which responsibility is delegated and duties are
assigned.
   (c) As used in this section, "organized c r i m e " means crimi-
nal organizations and their activities.
   SEC. 2. The Attorney General shall report to the Legisla-
ture not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1972 Reg-
ular Session of the Legislature the use and effect of the pro-
cedure established pursuant to the amendment of Section 1324
of the Penal Code enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of the
Legislature.
   SEC. 3. The amendment of Section 1324 of the Penal Code
enacted by Section 1 of this act shall remain in effect until the
91st day after the final adjournment of the 1972 Regular Ses-
sion of the Legislature and shall have no force or effect after
that date. Thereafter, Section 1324 of the Penal Code shall
read as it did immediately prior to the effective date of this
act.

                          CHAPTER 1358
An act making an appropriation for the purpose of a loan to
  the City of Crescent City pursuant to the Community Rede-
  velopment Financial Assistance and Disaster Project Law,
  and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. There is hereby appropriated from the Gen-
eral F u n d one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000) to
the State Allocation Board for the purpose of a loan
to the City of Crescent City pursuant to the Community
Redevelopment Financial Assistance and Disaster Project Law,
Part 1.5 (commencing with Section 34000) of Division 24 of
the Health and Safety Code, and Section 3 of Chapter 69
of the Statutes of 1964, and for the purpose of completing any
project undertaken pursuant to such provisions. The loan shall
2746               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Ch. 1359

be repaid out of proceeds of the sale of property by the city
for redevelopment purposes or out of any other funds avail-
able to the city.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   The City of Crescent City is in the process of completing the
redevelopment project undertaken after the disastrous tidal
wave of March 24, 1964. The most expeditious means of closing
out the project requires the immediate acquisition and resale
of several parcels of property by the city. If this acquisition
is undertaken immediately it will result in substantial savings
in project cost for the federal, state, and local government
bodies involved in the project. The loan to the city made pos-
sible by this act is necessary for the immediate acquisition of
the property in question and the expeditious and economical
completion of the redevelopment project.


                        CHAPTBE 1359
An act to amend Section 1257 of, and to add Section 10505.5
  to, the Water Code, relating to the appropriation of water.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969 Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1257 of the "Water Code is amended to
 read:
   1257. In acting upon applications to appropriate water,
the State Water Eesources Control Board shall consider the
relative benefit to be derived from all beneficial uses of the
 water concerned including, but not limited to, use for domestic,
irrigation, municipal, industrial, preservation and enhance-
ment of fish and wildlife, recreational, mining and power
purposes, and may subject such appropriations to such terms
and conditions as in its judgment will best develop, conserve,
and utilize in the public interest, the water sought to be
appropriated.
   SEC. 2. Section 1257 of the "Water Code is amended to
read:
   1257. In acting upon applications to appropriate water,
the board shall consider the relative benefit to be derived from
all beneficial uses of the water concerned including, but not
limited to, use for domestic, irrigation, municipal, industrial,
preservation and enhancement of fish and wildlife, recrea-
tional, mining and power purposes, and any uses specified to
be protected in any" relevant water quality control plan, and
Ch. 1360]              1969 REGULAR SESSION                     2747
may subject such appropriations to such terms and conditions
as in its judgment will best develop, conserve, and utilize in
the public interest, the water sought to be appropriated.
   SEC. 3. Section 10505.5 is added to the Water Code, to
read:
   10505.5. Every application heretofore or hereafter made
and filed pursuant to Section 10500, and held by the State
"Water Resources Control Board, shall be amended to provide,
and any permit hereafter issued pursuant to such an applica-
tion, and any license issued pursuant to such a permit, shall
provide, that the application, permit, or license shall not au-
thorize the use of any water outside of the county of origin
which is necessary for the development of the county.
   SEC. 4. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 1257 of the Water Code proposed by both this bill
and A.B. 413 are enacted, that both amendments be given ef-
fect and incorporated in Section 1257 in the form set forth in
Section 2 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 413 is en-
acted and amends Section 1257, Section 2 of this act shall be-
come operative at the same time that Section 1257 as amended
by A.B. 413 becomes operative, and at that time, Section 1257
of the Water Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is
repealed.

                          CHAPTER 1360
An act to amend Sections 3070, 3074, 3074.5, and 3093 of the
           Labor Code, relating to apprenticeship.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3070 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   3070. The Governor shall appoint an Apprenticeship Coun-
cil, composed of six representatives each from employer and
employee organizations, respectively, geographically selected,
and of two representatives of the general public. The Direc-
tor of Industrial Relations and the state official who is in
charge of trade and industrial education under authority of
the State Board of Education and the Chancellor of the
California Community Colleges, or his permanent and best-
qualified designee, shall also be members of the Apprentice-
ship Council. The chairman shall be elected by vote of the
Apprenticeship Council. The terms of office of the members
of the Apprenticeship Council first appointed shall expire
as designated by the Governor at the time of making the
appointment: two representatives each of employers, em-
ployees, and the public representative shall serve until Jan-
uary 15, 1941. Two representatives each of the employers
2748               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [QJj 1360

  and employees shall serve until January 15, 1942. There-
  after each member shall serve for a term of two years. Any
 member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the
  expiration of the term of his predecessor shall be appointed for
 the remainder of said term. Each member of the council shall
 receive the sum of twenty dollars ($20) for each day of his
 actual attendance at meetings of the council, together with
 his actual and necessary traveling expenses incurred in con-
  nection therewith.
     The terms of the five additional members provided by the
 •amendment of this section at the 1955 Eegular Session shall
  expire, as designated by the Governor at the time of making
 the appointment, as follows: one additional representative each
 of employers, employees, and the additional public representa-
 tive shall serve until January 15, 1957; and one additional rep-
 resentative each of employers and employees shall serve until
 January 15,1958.
     SEC. 2. Section 3074 of the Labor Code is amended to
 read:
    3074. The preparation of trade analyses and outlines of
 instruction, and the administration and supervision of related
 and supplemental instruction for apprentices, coordination of
 instruction with job experiences, and the selection and training
 of teachers and coordinators for such instruction shall be the
 responsibility of state and local boards responsible for voca-
 tional education.
    The Department of Education and the Board of Governors
 of the California Community Colleges may provide related
 and supplemental instruction to isolated apprentices as a direct
 instructional service, on a contractual basis with local school
 districts, by correspondence, or by a combination of these
means. For the purpose of this section, an isolated apprentice
is an apprentice registered with the Division of Apprentice-
ship Standards in the Department of Industrial Eelations who
cannot be enrolled in a class of related and supplementary
instruction for apprentices because of the small number of
apprentices available for an appropriate class or because there
is no existing apprenticeship program within a reasonable
travel distance.
    SEC. 3. Section 3074.5 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
    3074.5. The Bureau of Industrial Education of the Depart-
ment of Education and the Board of Governors of the Cali-
fornia Community Colleges may advance or reimburse to a
local school district its added cost of providing related instruc-
tion classes to apprentices whenever the enrollment of any
such class is at least five but not more than 15.
    SEC. 4. Section 3093 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   3093. (a) The provisions of this section will apply only
when voluntarily requested by the parties to a collective bar-
                    1969
Ch. 1360]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2749

gaining agreement or by an employer, his association, or a
union, or its representative where there is no collective bar-
gaining agreement.
    (b) Nothing in this section may be construed in any way
so as to compel, regulate, interfere with, or duplicate the pro-
visions of any established training programs which are oper-
ated under the terms of any collective bargaining agreements
or unilaterally by any employer or bona fide labor union.
    (c) Services contemplated under this section may be pro-
vided only when voluntarily requested and shall be denied
when it is found that existing prevailing conditions in the
area and industry would in any way be lowered or adversely
affected.
    (d) The California Apprenticeship Council in cooperation
with the Departments of Education and Employment and the
Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges
may foster and promote on-the-job training programs other
than apprenticeship as follows: (1) programs for journeymen
in the apprenticeable occupations to keep them abreast of cur-
rent techniques, methods and materials and opportunities for
advancement in their industries; (2) programs in other than
apprenticeable occupations for workers entering the labor
market for the first time or workers entering new occupations
by reason of having been displaced from former occupations
by reason of economic, industrial, technological scientific
changes or developments; (3) such programs shall be in
accord with and agreed to by the parties to any applicable col-
lective bargaining agreements and where appropriate will
include joint employer-employee cooperation in the programs.
    (e) The Division of Apprenticeship Standards when re-
 quested may foster and promote voluntary on-the-job training
 programs in accordance with this section, and assist employers,
 employees and other interested persons and agencies in the
 development and carrying out of such programs. The Division
 of Apprenticeship Standards shall cooperate in these func-
 tions with the Departments of Education and Employment
 and the Board of Governors of the California Community Col-
leges and other governmental agencies. The Division of Ap-
 prenticeship Standards may cooperate with the Departments
 of Corrections and Youth Authority in the development of
 training programs for inmates and releasees of correctional
 institutions.
     (f) The programs, where appropriate, may include related
 and supplemental classroom instruction offered and adminis-
 tered by state and local boards responsible for vocational
 education.
     (g) The activities and services of the Division of Appren-
 ticeship Standards in training programs under this section
 shall be performed without curtailing or in any way interfer-
 ing with the division's activities and services in apprenticeship.
 2750               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Q^ 13gQ

      (h) The Division of Apprenticeship Standards may con-
  tract with, and receive reimbursements from, appropriate fed-
  eral, state and other governmental agencies.
      (i) The vocational education activities and services of the
 Department of Education, the Board of Governors of the
  California Community Colleges, and local public school dis-
  tricts shall not be abridged or abrogated through implementa-
  tion of this section.
      (j) "On-the-job training" as used in this section refers
  exclusively to training confined to the needs of a specific occu-
  pation and conducted at the jobsite for employed workers.
      (k) The term journeyman, as used in this section, means a
  person who has either (1) completed an accredited apprentice-
  ship in his craft, or (2) who has completed the equivalent of
  an apprenticeship in length and content of work experience
  and all other requirements in the apprenticeship standards
 for the craft which has workers classified as journeymen in
 an apprenticeable occupation.
     (I) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require
 prior approval, ratification, or reference of any training pro-
 gram to the Division of Apprenticeship Standards or the De-
 partment of Industrial Relations.
     SEC. 5. Section 3070 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
    3070. The Governor shall appoint a California Appren-
 ticeship Council, composed of six representatives each from
 employer and employee organizations, respectively, geographi-
 cally selected, and of two representatives of the general public.
 The Director of Industrial Eelations and the state official who
 is in charge of trade and industrial education under authority
of the State Board of Education and the Chancellor of the
 California Community Colleges, or his permanent and best
qualified designee, shall also be members of the California
Apprenticeship Council. The chairman shall be elected by vote
of the California Apprenticeship Council. The terms of office
of the members of the California Apprenticeship Council first
appointed shall expire as designated by the Governor at the
time of making the appointment: Two representatives each of
employers, employees, and the public representative shall serve
until January 15, 1941. Two representatives each of the em-
ployers and employees shall serve until January 15, 1942.
Thereafter each member shall serve for a term of two years.
Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to
the expiration of the term of his predecessor shall be appointed
for the remainder of said term. Each member of the council
shall receive the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25) for each day
of his actual attendance at meetings of the council, for each
day of his actual attendance at hearings by the council or a
committee thereof pursuant to Section 3082, and for each day
of his actual attendance at meetings of other committees
established by the council and approved by the Director of
/

                           l969
    Ch. 1361]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2751

    Industrial Eelations, together with his actual and necessary
    traveling expenses incurred in connection therewith.
       The terms of the five additional members provided by the
    amendment of this section at the 1955 Eegular Session shall
    expire, as designated by the Governor at the time of making
    the appointment, as follows: One additional representative each
    of employers, employees, and the additional public representa-
    tive shall serve until January 15, 1957; and one additional
    representative each of employers and employees shall serve
    until January 15, 1958.
       SEC. 6. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
    to Section 3070 of the Labor Code, proposed by this bill and
    Assembly Bill No. 340 and Assembly Bill No. 745 are en-
    acted, that all the amendments be given effect and incorporated
    in Section 3070 in the form set forth in Section 5 of this act.
    Therefore, in the event Assembly Bill No. 340 and Assembly
    Bill No. 745 are enacted and amend Section 3070, Section 5
    of this act shall become operative at the same time that Section
    3070 as amended by Assembly Bill No. 340 and Assembly Bill
    No. 745 becomes operative, and at that time, Section 3070 of
    the Labor Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                              CHAPTER 1361
    An act to add Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 25970)
      to Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to
      minors.
                [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Piled with
                      Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

    The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

       SECTION 1. Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 25970)
    is added to Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, to
    read:
                   CHAPTER 13. MINORS CROSSING THE
                           MEXICAN BORDER

       25970. A peace officer of any city or county shall prevent
    the entry from California into the Eepublic of Mexico at the
    border by any resident of this state under the age of 18 years
    who is unaccompanied by a parent or guardian or who does not
    have written consent for such entry from a parent or guardian
    or who does not have a passport. The authority of the peace
    officer under this chapter shall be only to prevent entry and
    not otherwise to detain. Nothing in this chapter shall be con-
    strued to limit the authority of a peace officer under any other
    section of the law of this state.



        87—1954
2752               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     rQJj. tZQ2

                        CHAPTER 1362

An act to amend Section 3060 of, and to add Title 15 (com-
  mencing with Section 3082) to Part 4 of Division 3 of, the
  Civil Code, to amend Sections 710a and 1203.61 of, and to
  repeal Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1181) of Title
  4 of Part 3 of, the Code of Civil Procedure, to repeal Chap-
  ter 3 (commencing with Section 4200) of Division 5 of Title
  1 of the Government Code, to amend Section 5463 of the
  Health and Safety Code, and to amend Sections 5294 and
  10509 of the Streets and Highways Code, relating to works
  of improvement.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3060 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   3060. Any person who performs labor in any mining claim
 or claims, or in or upon any real property worked as a mine,
either in the development thereof or in working thereon by
the subtractive process, or furnishes materials to be used or
consumed therein, has a lien upon the same and the works
owned and used by the owners for milling or reducing the
ores from the same, for the value of the work or labor done
or materials furnished by each respectively, whether done or
furnished at the instance of the owner of such mining claim
or claims or real property worked as a mine, or his agent,
and every contractor, subcontractor, superintendent, or other
person having charge of any mining or work or labor per-
formed in and about such mining claim or claims or real
property worked as a mine, either as lessee or under a working
bond or contract thereon shall be held to be the agent of the
owner for the purposes of this section. The liens provided for
by this section shall be enforced in the same manner as
those provided for by Title 15 (commencing with Section
3082), Part 4, Division 3.
   SEC. 2. Title 15 (commencing with Section 3082) is added
to Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code, to read:

        TITLE 15. WORKS OF IMPROVEMENT
             CHAPTER 1.      GENERAL DEFINITIONS

  3082. Unless the context otherwise requires, the provisions
in this chapter govern the construction of this title.
  3083. "Bonded stop notice" means a stop notice, given to
any construction lender, accompanied by a bond with good
and sufficient sureties in a penal sum equal to 1J times the
amount of such claim conditioned that if the defendant re-
covers judgment in an action brought on such verified claim
                    1969
Ch. 1362]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2753

or on the lien filed by the claimant, the claimant will pay all
costs that may be awarded against the owner, original con-
tractor, construction lender, or any of them, and all damages
that such owner, original contractor, or construction lender
may sustain by reason of the equitable garnishment effected
by the claim or by reason of the lien, not exceeding the sum
specified in the bond. To be effective such bonded stop notice
shall be delivered to the manager or other responsible officer
or person at the office of the construction lender or must be
sent to such office by registered or certified mail. If such no-
tice is delivered or sent to any institution or organization
maintaining branch offices, it shall not be effective unless
delivered or sent to the office or branch administering or hold-
ing such construction funds.
   3084. "Claim of lien" means a written statement, signed
and verified by the claimant or by his agent, containing all
of the following:
    (a) A statement of his demand after deducting all just
credits and offsets.
    (b) The name of the owner or reputed owner, if known.
    (c) A general statement of the kind of labor, services,
equipment, or materials furnished by him.
    (d) The name of the person by whom he was employed or
to whom he furnished the labor, services, equipment, or ma-
terials.
    (e) A description of the site sufficient for identification.
   3085. " C l a i m a n t " means any person entitled under this
title to record a claim of lien, to give a stop notice in con-
nection with any work of improvement, or to recover on any
payment bond, or any combination of the foregoing.
   3086. "Completion" means, in the case of any work of
improvement other than a public work, actual completion of
the work of improvement. Any of the following shall be
deemed equivalent to a completion:
    (a) The occupation or use of a work of improvement by
the owner, or his agent, accompanied by cessation of labor
thereon.
    (b) The acceptance by the owner, or his agent, of the work
 of improvement.
    (c) After the commencement of a work of improvement, a
 cessation of labor thereon for a continuous period of 60 days,
 or a cessation of labor thereon for a continuous period of 30
 days or more if the owner files for record a notice of cessation.
    If the work of improvement is subject to acceptance by any
public entity, the completion of such work of improvement
 shall be deemed to be the date of such acceptance; provided,
 however, that, except as to contracts awarded under the State
 Contract Act. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 14250),
 Part 5, Division 3, Title 2 of the Government Code, a cessation
 of labor on any public work for a continuous period of 30
 days shall be a completion thereof.
2754               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo 1 3 6 2

     3087. "Construction lender" means any mortgagee or
  beneficiary under a deed of trust lending funds with which
  the cost of the work of improvement is, wholly or in part, to be
  defrayed, or any assignee or successor in interest of either, or
  any escrow holder or other party holding any funds furnished
  or to be furnished by the owner or lender or any other person
  as a fund from which to pay construction costs.
     3088. "Contract" means an agreement between an owner
  and any original contractor providing for the work of im-
 provement or any part thereof.
     3089. "Laborer" means any person who, acting as an em-
 ployee, performs labor upon or bestows skill or other neces-
 sary services on any work of improvement.
     3090. "Materialman" means any person who furnishes
 materials or supplies to be used or consumed in any work of
 improvement.
    3091. "Ninety-day public works preliminary bond notice"
 means a notice which must be given by any claimant other
 than one of the following:
     (a) A claimant who performs actual labor for wages.
     (b) A claimant who has a direct contractual relationship
 with the original contractor.
    The notice is required only on public works, and is a neces-
 sary prerequisite to enforcement of a claim on a payment
 bond. The notice shall be in writing and shall state with sub-
 stantial accuracy the amount claimed, and the name of the
 party to whom the claimant furnished labor, services, equip-
 ment, or materials. The notice shall be given within 90 days
 from the date on which the claimant furnished the last labor,
 services, equipment, or materials for which such claim is made.
    The notice shall be served by mailing the same by registered
 or certified mail, postage prepaid, in an envelope addressed to
 the original contractor at any place he maintains an office, or
conducts his business, or his residence, or by personal service.
    3092. "Notice of cessation" means a written notice, signed
 and verified by the owner or his agent, containing all of the
following :
    (a) The date on or about when the cessation of labor com-
menced.
    (b) A statement that such cessation has continued until the
recording of the notice of cessation.
    (c) The name and address of the owner.
    (d) The nature of the interest or estate of the owner.
    (e) A description of the site sufficient for identification,
containing the street address of the site, if any. If a sufficient
legal description of the site is given, the validity of the notice
shall not, however, be affected by the fact that the street ad-
dress is erroneous or is omitted.
    (f) The name of the original contractor, if any, for the
work of improvement as a whole.
                     1969
Ch. 1362]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2755

    (g) For the purpose of this section, " o w n e r " means the
owner who causes a building, improvement, or structure, to be
constructed, altered, or repaired (or his successor in interest
at the date of a notice of cessation from labor is filed for rec-
ord) whether the interest or estate of such owner be in fee,
as vendee under a contract of purchase, as lessee, or other
interest or estate less than the fee. Where such interest or es-
tate is held by two or more persons as joint tenants or tenants
in common, any one or more of the cotenants may be deemed
to be the " o w n e r " within the meaning of this section. Any
notice of cessation signed by less than all of such cotenants
shall recite the names and addresses of all such cotenants.
   The notice of cessation shall be recorded in the office of the
county recorder of the county in which the site is located and
shall be effective only if there has been a continuous cessation
of labor for at least 30 days prior to such recording.
   3093. "Notice of completion" means a written notice,
signed and verified by the owner or his agent, containing all
of the following :
   (a) The date of completion (other than a cessation of la-
bor). The recital of an erroneous date of completion shall not,
however, affect the validity of the notice if the true date of
completion is within 10 days preceding the date of recording
of such notice.
   (b) The name and address of the owner.
   (c) The nature of the interest or estate of the owner.
   (d) A description of the site sufficient for identification,
containing the street address of the site, if any. If a sufficient
legal description of the site is given, the validity of the notice
shall not, however, be affected by the fact that the street ad-
dress recited is erroneous or that such street address is omitted.
    (e) The name of the original contractor, if any, or if the
notice is given only of completion of a contract for a particu-
lar portion of such work of improvement, as provided in Sec-
tion 3117, then the name of the original contractor under such
contract, and a general statement of the kind of work done or
materials furnished pursuant to such contract.
   The notice of completion shall be recorded in the office of
the county recorder of the county in which the site is located,
within 10 days after such completion.
   If there is more than one owner, any notice of completion
signed by less than all of such co-owners shall recite the names
and addresses of all of such co-owners; and provided further,
that any notice of completion signed by a successor in interest
shall recite the names and addresses of his transferor or trans-
ferors.
   For the purpose of this section, owner is defined as set forth
in subdivision (g) of Section 3092.
   3094. "Notice of nonresponsibility" means a written no-
tice, signed and verified by a person owning or claiming an
interest in the site who has not caused the work of improve-
2756               STATUTES O F CALIFORNIA             rQn>   1$62

ment to be performed, or his agent, containing all of the fol-
lowing :
    (a) A description of the site sufficient for identification.
    (b) The name and nature of the title or interest of the per-
son giving the notice.
    (c) The name of the purchaser under contract, if any, or
lessee, if known.
    (d) A statement that the person giving the notice will not
be responsible for any claims arising from the work of im-
provement.
   Within 10 days after the person claiming the benefits of
nonresponsibility has obtained knowledge of the work of im-
provement, the notice provided for in this section shall be
posted in some conspicuous place on the site. Within the same
 10-day period provided for the posting of the notice, the no-
tice shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder of
the county in which the site or some part thereof is located.
   3095. "Original contractor" means any contractor who has
a direct contractual relationship with the owner.
   3096. "Payment bond" means a bond with good and suf-
ficient sureties which is conditioned for the payment in full of
the claims of all claimants and which also by its terms is made
 to inure to the benefit of all claimants so as to give such per-
sons a right of action to recover upon such bond in any suit
brought to foreclose the liens provided for in this title or in a
separate suit brought on such bond. Either an owner or an
original contractor may be the principal upon any payment
bond.
   3097. "Preliminary 20-day notice (private w o r k ) " means
a written notice from a claimant that is given prior to the
recording of a mechanic's lien and prior to the filing of a stop
notice, and is required to be given under the following circum-
stances :
   (a) Except one under direct contract with the owner or one
performing actual labor for wages, every person who furnishes
labor, service, equipment, or material for which a lien other-
wise can be claimed under this title, or for which a notice to
withhold can otherwise be given under this title, must, as a
necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim of lien, and
of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the owner or
reputed owner, to the original contractor, or reputed contrac-
tor, and to the construction lender, if any, or to the reputed
construction lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as
prescribed by this section.
   (b) All persons having a direct contract with the owner,
except the contractor or one performing actual labor for wages,
who furnish labor, service, equipment, or material for which
a lien otherwise can be claimed under this title, or for which
a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under this title,
must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim
of lien, and of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the
                    1969
Ch. 1362]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2757

construction lender, if any, or to the reputed construction
lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as prescribed by
this section.
   (c) The preliminary notice referred to in subdivisions (a)
and. (b) shall be given not later than 20 days after the claim-
ant has first furnished labor, service, equipment, or materials
to the jobsite, and shall contain the following information:
    (1) A general description of the labor, service, equipment,
or materials furnished, or to be furnished, and if there is a
construction lender, he shall be furnished with an estimate of
the total price thereof in addition to the foregoing.
    (2) The name and address of such person furnishing such
labor, services, equipment, or materials.
    (3) The name of the person who contracted for purchase
of such labor, service, equipment, or materials.
    (4) A description of the jobsite sufficient for identification.
    (5) A statement that if bills are not paid in full for labor,
service, equipment, or material furnished, or to be furnished,
the improved property may be subject to mechanic's liens.
   If an invoice for such materials contains the information
required by this section, a copy of such invoice, transmitted
in the manner prescribed by this section shall be sufficient
notice.
   A certificated architect who has furnished services for the
design of the work of improvement and who gives a prelimi-
nary notice as provided in this section not later than 20 days
after the work of improvement has commenced shall be
deemed to have complied with subdivisions (a) and (b) with
respect to architectural services furnished, or to be furnished.
    (d) If labor, service, equipment, or materials have been fur-
 nished to a jobsite by a person who elected not to give a
 preliminary notice as provided in subdivision (a) or (b), such
person shall not be precluded from giving a preliminary notice
 not later than 20 days after furnishing other labor, service,
 equipment, or materials to the same jobsite. Such person shall,
 however, be entitled to claim a lien and a notice to withhold
 only for such labor, service, equipment, or material furnished
 within 20 days prior to the service of such notice, and at any
 time thereafter.
     (e) Any agreement made or entered into by an owner,
 whereby the owner agrees to waive the rights or privileges
 conferred upon him by this section shall be void and of no
 effect.
     (f) Service of notice required under this section may be
 given by delivering the same to the person to be notified,
 personally, or by leaving it at his address or place of busi-
 ness with some person in charge, or by first-class mail, reg-
 istered mail, or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
 the person to whom notice is to be given at his residence or
 place of business address, or at the address shown by the
 building permit on file with the authority issuing a building
2758               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQJj 1 3 6 2

 permit for the work. If the address of the person on whom no-
 tice was required to be served is not actually known, then
 service of such notice may be by first-class mail, registered
 mail, or certified mail, addressed to the jobsite, with the enve-
 lope setting forth the name of the owner or reputed owner, if
 known, or if not known, then merely " o w n e r " or to the per-
 son to whom a notice to withhold may be given, if known, or
 if not known, then to "construction lender" or to the original
 contractor, if known, or if not known, then to "general con-
 tractor". "When service is by registered or certified mail, serv-
 ice is complete at the time of the deposit of the registered or
 certified mail.
     (g) A person required by this section to give notice to the
 owner and to an original contractor, and to a person to whom
 a notice to withhold may be given, need give only one such
 notice to the owner, and to the original contractor and to the
 person to whom a notice to withhold may be given with respect
 to all materials, service, labor, or equipment he furnishes for a
 work of improvement, which means the entire structure or
  scheme of improvements as a whole, unless the same is fur-
 nished under contracts with more than one subcontractor, in
 which event, the notice requirements must be met with respect
 to materials, services, labor, or equipment furnished to each
 such contractor.
    If a notice contains a general description required by sub-
 division (a) or (b) of the materials, services, labor, or equip-
 ment furnished to the date of notice, it is not defective because,
 after such date, the person giving notice furnishes materials,
 services, labor, or equipment not within the scope of such gen-
 eral description.
     (h) "Where the contract price to be paid to any subcon-
tractor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four
hundred dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, licensed
under Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division
3 of the Business and Professions Code, to give the notice pro-
vided for in this section, constitutes grounds for disciplinary
action by the Registrar of Contractors.
     (i) Every city, county, city and county, or other govern-
mental authority issuing building permits shall, in its applica-
tion form for a building permit, provide space and a designa-
tion for the applicant to enter the name, branch designation,
if any, and address of the construction lender and shall keep
the information on file open for public inspection during the
regular business hours of the authority.
    If there is no known construction lender, that fact shall be
noted in such designated space. Any failure to indicate the
name and address of the construction lender on such applica-
tion, however, shall not relieve any person from the obliga-
tion to give to the construction lender the notice required by
this section.
Ch. 1362]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2759

    3098. "Preliminary 20-day notice (public work), stop
notice" means a written notice from a claimant that was
given prior to the filing of a stop notice on public work, and
is required to be given under the following circumstances:
    (a) I n any case in which the law of this state affords a
right to a person furnishing labor or materials for a public
work who has not been paid therefor to file a stop notice with
the public agency concerned, and thereby cause the withhold-
ing of payment from the contractor for the public work, any
such person having no direct contractual relationship with
the contractor, other than a person who performed actual
labor for wages, may file such a notice, but no payment shall
be withheld from any such contractor, pursuant to any such
notice, unless such person has caused written notice to be
given to such contractor, and the public agency concerned,
not later than 20 days after the claimant has first fur-
nished labor, services, equipment, or materials to the jobsite,
stating with substantial accuracy a general description of
labor, service, equipment, or materials furnished or to be
furnished, and the name of the party to whom the same was
furnished. Such notice shall be served by mailing the same by
first-class mail, registered mail, or certified mail, postage pre-
paid, in an envelope addressed to the contractor at any place
he maintains an office or conducts his business, or his resi-
dence, or by personal service. I n case of any public works
constructed by the Department of Public "Works or the De-
partment of General Services of the state, such notice shall
be served by mailing in the same manner as above, addressed
to the office of the disbursing officer of the department con-
structing the work, or by personal service upon such officer.
When service is by registered or certified mail, service is com-
plete at the time of the deposit of the registered or certified
mail.
   (b) Where the contract price to be paid to any subcon-
tractor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four
hundred dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, li-
censed under Chapter 9, (commencing with Section 7000) of
Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, to give the
notice provided for in this section, constitutes grounds for
disciplinary action by the Registrar of Contractors.
   3099. "Public entity" means the state, Eegents of the
University of California, a county, city, district, public au-
thority, public agency, and any other political subdivision or
public corporation in the state.
   3100. "Public work" means any work of improvement
contracted for by a public entity.
   3101. " S i t e " means the real property upon which the
work of improvement is being constructed or performed.
   3102. " S i t e improvement" means the demolishing or re-
moving of improvements, trees, or other vegetation located
thereon, or drilling test holes or the grading, filling, or
2760               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ Q n > \%Q2

 otherwise improving of any lot or tract of land or the
 street, highway, or sidewalk in front of or adjoining any lot
 or tract of land, or constructing or installing sewers or other
 public utilities therein, or constructing any areas, vaults,
 cellars, or rooms under said sidewalks or making any improve-
 ments thereon.
    3103. "Stop notice" means a written notice, signed and
 verified by the claimant or his agent, stating in general terms
 all of the following:
    (a) The kind of labor, services, equipment, or materials
 furnished or agreed to be furnished by such claimant.
    (b) The name of the person to or for whom the same was
 done or furnished.
    (c) The amount in value, as near as may be, of that already
 done or furnished and of the whole agreed to be done or
 furnished.
    Such notice, in the case of any work of improvement other
 than a public work, shall be delivered to the owner person-
 ally or left at his residence or place of business with some per-
 son in charge, or delivered to his architect, if any, and, if the
 notice is served upon a construction lender, holding construc-
 tion funds and maintaining branch offices, it shall not be effec-
 tive as against such construction lender unless given to or
 served upon the manager or other responsible officer or person
 at the office or branch thereof administering or holding the
 construction funds. Such notice, in the case of any public
 work for the state, shall be filed with the director of the de-
 partment which let the contract and, in the case of any other
 public work, shall be filed in the office of the controller, audi-
 tor, or other public disbursing officer whose duty it is to make
 payments under the provisions of the contract, or with the
 commissioners, managers, trustees, officers, board of super-
 visors, board of trustees, common council, or other body by
 whom the contract'was awarded. No such notice shall be in-
 valid by reason of any defect in form if it is sufficient too
 substantially inform the owner of the information required.
   Any stop notice may be served by registered or certified
mail with the same effect as by personal service.
   3104. "Subcontractor" means any contractor who has no
direct contractual relationship with the owner.
   3105. "Subdivision" means a work of improvement con-
sisting of two or more separate residential units or two or
more buildings, mining claims, or other improvements owned
or reputed to be owned by the same person or on which the
claimant has been employed by the same person. A separate
residential unit means one residential structure, together with
any garage or other improvements appurtenant thereto.
   3106. "Work of improvement" includes but is not re-
stricted to the construction, alteration, addition to, or re-
pair, in whole or in part, of any building, wharf, bridge,
ditch, flume, aqueduct, well, tunnel, fence, machinery, rail-
                      1969
Ch. 1362]                    REGUI^AR, SESSION                2761

road, or road, the seeding, sodding, or planting of any lot or
tract of land for landscaping purposes, the filling, leveling, or
grading of any lot or tract of land, the demolition of build-
ings, and the removal of buildings. Except as otherwise
provided in this title, "work of improvement" means the
entire structure or scheme of improvement as a whole.

                 CHAPTER 2.      MECHANICS' L I E N S

                Article 1.    Application of Chapter
  3109.     This chapter does not apply to any public work.

               Article 2. Who Is Entitled to Lien
   3110. Mechanics, materialmen, contractors, subcontractors,
lessors of equipment, artisans, architects, registered engineers,
licensed land surveyors, machinists, builders, teamsters, and
draymen, and all persons and laborers of every class per-
forming labor upon or bestowing skill or other necessary
services on, or furnishing materials or leasing equipment to
be used or consumed in or furnishing appliances, teams, or
power contributing to a work of improvement shall have a
lien upon the property upon which they have bestowed labor
or furnished materials or appliances or leased equipment for
the value of such labor done or materials furnished and for
the value of the use of such appliances, equipment, teams, or
power whether done or furnished at the instance of the owner
or of any person acting by his authority or under him as
contractor or otherwise. For the purposes of this chapter,
every contractor, subcontractor, sub-subcontractor, architect,
builder, or other person having charge of a work of improve-
ment or portion thereof shall be held to be the agent of the
owner.
   3111. For the purposes of this chapter, an express trust
fund established pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement
to which payments are required to be made on account of
fringe benefits supplemental to a wage agreement for the bene-
fit of a claimant on particular real property shall have a
lien on such property in the amount of the supplemental
fringe benefit payments owing to it pursuant to the collective
bargaining agreement.
   3112. Any claimant who, at the instance or request of the
owner (or any other person acting by his authority or under
him, as contractor or otherwise) of any lot or tract of land,
has made any site improvement has a lien upon such lot or
tract of land for work done or materials furnished.

            Article 3.   Conditions to Enforcing a Lien
   3114. A claimant shall be entitled to enforce a lien only
if he has given the preliminary 20-day notice (private work)
2762               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQJj_ 1 3 6 2

  in accordance with the provisions of Section 3097 if required
  by that section.
     3115. Each original contractor, in order to enforce a lien,
  must record his claim of lien after he completes his contract
  and before the expiration of (a) 90 days after the comple-
  tion of the work of improvement as denned in Section 3106
  if no notice of completion or notice of cessation has been re-
  corded, or (b) 60 days after recordation of a notice of com-
  pletion or notice of cessation.
     3116. Bach claimant other than an original contractor, in
  order to enforce a lien, must record his claim of lien after he
 has ceased furnishing labor, services, equipment, or materials,
  and before the expiration of (a) 90 days after completion of
  the work of improvement if no notice of completion or cessa-
  tion has been recorded, or (b) 30 days after recordation of a
  notice of completion or notice of cessation.
     3117. Where the work of improvement is not made pur-
  suant to one original contract for the work of improvement
 but is made in whole or in part pursuant to two or more
 original contracts, each covering a particular portion of the
 work of improvement, the owner may, within 10 days after
 completion of any such contract for a particular portion
 of the work of improvement, record a notice of comple-
 tion. If such notice of completion be recorded, notwithstand-
 ing the provisions of Sections 3115 and 3116, the original con-
 tractor under the contract covered by such notice must, within
 60 days after recording of such notice, and any claimant
 under such contract other than the original contractor must,
 within 30 days after the recording of such notice of comple-
 tion, record his claim of lien. If such notice is not recorded,
 then the period for recording claims of lien shall be as pro-
 vided for in Sections 3115 and B116.
    3118. Any person who shall willfully include in his claim
 of lien labor, services, equipment, or materials not furnished
 for the property described in such claim shall thereby for-
feit his lien.
                   Article 4. Amount of Lien
    3123. The liens provided for in this chapter shall be direct
 liens, and shall be for the reasonable value of the labor, serv-
ices, equipment, or materials furnished or for the price agreed
upon by the claimant and the person with whom he con-
tracted, whichever is less. Such lien shall not be limited in
amount by the price stated in the contract as defined in Sec-
tion 3088, except as provided in Sections 3235 and 3236.
    3124. In any case where the claimant was employed by a
contractor or subcontractor, his claim of lien shall not extend
to any labor, services, equipment, or materials not included in
the contract between the owner and original contractor or any
modification thereof, if the claimant had actual knowledge or
constructive notice of the contract as defined in Section 3088
                    1969
Ch. 13621                  REGULAR SESSION                2763

or any such modification before he furnished such labor, serv-
ice, equipment, or materials. The filing of a contract for a
work of improvement or of a modification of such contract
with the county recorder of the county where the property is
situated, before the commencement of work, shall be equivalent
to the giving of actual notice of the provisions thereof by the
owner to all persons performing work or furnishing materials
thereunder.

             Article 5.    Property Subject to Lien
   3128. The liens provided for in this chapter shall attach
to the work of improvement and the land on which it is
situated together with a convenient space about the same or so
much as may be required for the convenient use and occupa-
tion thereof, if at the commencement of the work or of the
furnishing of the materials for the same, the land belonged
to the person who caused such work of improvement to be
 constructed, but if such person owned less than a fee simple
estate in such land then only his interest therein is subject
to such lien, except as provided in Section 3129.
   3129. Every work of improvement constructed upon any
land and all work or labor performed or materials furnished
in connection therewith with the knowledge of the owner or of
any person having or claiming any estate therein shall be held
to have been constructed, performed, or furnished at the in-
stance of such owner or person having or claiming any estate
therein and such interest shall be subject to any lien recorded
under this chapter unless such owner or person having or
claiming any estate therein shall give a notice of nonresponsi-
bility pursuant to Section 3094.
   3130. In every case in which one claim is filed against two
or more buildings or other works of improvement owned or
reputed to be owned by the same person or on which the
claimant has been employed by the same person to do his work
or furnish his materials, whether such works of improvement
are owned by one or more owners, the person filing such claim
must at the same time designate the amount due to him on
each of such works of improvement; otherwise the lien of such
claim is postponed to other liens. If such claimant has been
employed to furnish labor or materials under a contract pro-
viding for a lump sum to be paid to him for his work or ma-
terials on such works of improvement as a whole, and such
contract does not segregate the amount due for the work done
and materials furnished on such works of improvement sep-
arately, then such claimant, for the purposes of this section,
may estimate an equitable distribution of the sum due him
over all of such works of improvement based upon the pro-
portionate amount of work done or materials furnished upon
such respective works of improvement. The lien of such claim-
ant does not extend beyond the amount designated as against
other creditors having liens, by judgment, mortgage, or other-
2764               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Ch. 1362

wise, upon either such works of improvement or upon the
land upon which the same are situated.
   For all purposes of this section, if there is a single structure
on more than one parcel of land owned by one or more differ-
ent owners, it shall not be the duty of the claimant to segre-
gate the proportion of material or labor entering into the
structure on any one of such parcels; but upon the trial
thereof the court may, where it deems it equitable so to do,
distribute the lien equitably as between the several parcels in-
volved.
   3131. If a work of improvement consists in the construc-
tion of two or more separate residential units, each such unit
shall be considered a separate "work of improvement," and
the time for filing claims of lien against each such residential
unit shall commence to run upon the completion of each such
residential unit. A separate residential unit means one residen-
tial structure, together with any garage or other improvements
appurtenant thereto. The provisions of this qualification shall
not impair any rights conferred under the provisions of Sec-
tions 3112 and 3130. Materials delivered to or upon any por-
tion of such entire work of improvement or furnished to be
used in such entire work of improvement and ultimately used
or consumed in one of such separate residential units shall,
for all the purposes of this title, be deemed to have been fur-
nished to be used or consumed in the separate residential unit
in which the same shall have been actually used or consumed;
provided, however, that if the claimant is unable to segregate
the amounts used on or consumed in such separate units, he
shall be entitled to all the benefits of Section 3130.

                      Article 6.   Priorities
   3134. The liens provided for in this chapter (other than
with respect to site improvements) are, subject to the excep-
tion in Section 3138, preferred to any lien, mortgage, deed
of trust, or other encumbrance upon the work of improvement
and the site, which attaches subsequent to the commencement
of the work of improvement, and also to any lien, mortgage,
deed of trust, or other encumbrance of which the claimant
had no notice and which was unrecorded at the time of com-
mencement of the work of improvement.
   3135. If any site improvement is provided for in a sepa-
rate contract from any contract with respect to the erection
of residential units or other structures, then the site improve-
ment shall be considered a separate work of improvement and
the commencement thereof shall not constitute a commence-
ment of the work of improvement consisting of the erection
of any residential unit or other structure.
   3136. A mortgage or deed of trust which would be prior
to the liens provided for in this chapter to the extent of oblig-
atory advances made thereunder in accordance with the com-
mitment of the lender shall also be prior to the liens provided
                    1969
Ch. 1362]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2765

for in this chapter as to any other advances, secured by such
mortgage or deed of trust, which are used in payment of any
claim of lien which is recorded at the date or dates of such
other advances and thereafter in payment of costs of the work
of improvement. Such priority shall not, however, exceed the
original obligatory commitment of the lender as shown in such
mortgage or deed of trust.
   3137. The liens provided for in Section 3112 with respect
to site improvements are, subject to the exception in Section
3139, preferred to (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, or other
encumbrance which attaches subsequent to the commencement
of the site improvement work; and (b) any mortgage, deed
of trust, or other encumbrance of which the claimant had no
notice and which was unrecorded at the time of the commence-
ment of such site improvement; and (c) any mortgage, deed
of trust, or other encumbrance recorded before the commence-
ment of the site improvement work which was given for the
sole or primary purpose of financing such site improvements,
unless the loan proceeds are, in good faith, placed in the
control of the lender under a binding agreement with the
borrower to the effect that such proceeds are to be applied
to the payment of claims of claimants and that no portion of
such proceeds will be paid to the borrower in the absence of
satisfactory evidence that all such claims have been paid or
that the time for recording claims of liens has expired and no
such claims have been recorded.
   3138. If the holder of any mortgage or deed of trust which
is subordinate pursuant to Section 3134 to any lien, shall
procure a payment bond as defined in Section 3096 in an
amount not less than 75 percent of the principal amount
of such mortgage or deed of trust, which bond refers to such
mortgage or deed of trust, and shall record such payment
bond in the office of the county recorder in the county where
the site is located, then such mortgage or deed of trust shall
be preferred to all liens for labor, services, equipment, or
materials furnished after such recording.
   3139. If the owner of the land or holder of any mortgage
or deed of trust, which is subordinate pursuant to Section 3137
to any lien, shall procure a payment bond in an amount not
less than 50 percent of the principal amount of such mortgage
or deed of trust and shall record such payment bond in the
office of the county recorder in the county where the site is lo-
cated before completion of the work of improvement, then such
 mortgage or deed of trust shall be preferred to all such liens
 provided in Section 3112.
   3140. Any original contractor or subcontractor shall be en-
titled to recover, upon a claim of lien recorded by him, only
 such amount as may be due him according to the terms of his
 contract after deducting all claims of other claimants for
labor, services, equipment, or materials furnished and em-
braced within his contract.
2766              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Qh_ J362

               Article 7. Enforcement of Lien
    3143. If the owner of property, or the owner of any in-
 terest therein, sought to be charged with a claim of lien, or
any original contractor or subcontractor disputes the cor-
rectness or validity of any claim of lien, he may record in
the office of the county recorder in which such claim of lien
was recorded, either before or after the commencement of an
action to enforce such claim of lien, a bond executed by a
corporation authorized to issue surety bonds in the State of
California, in a penal sum equal to 11 times the amount
of the claim or 1-J times the amount allocated in the claim
of lien to the parcel or parcels of real property sought to be
released, which bond shall be conditioned for the payment
of any sum which the claimant may recover on the claim
together with his costs of suit in the action, if he recovers
therein. Upon the recording of such bond the real property
described in such bond is released from the lien and from
 any action brought to foreclose such lien. The principal upon
such bond may be either the owner of the property or the
 owner of any interest therein, or any original contractor, sub-
contractor, or sub-subcontractor affected by such claim of lien.
    3144. No lien provided for in this chapter binds any prop-
 erty for a longer period of time than 90 days after the record-
 ing of the claim of lien, unless within that time an action to
 foreclose the lien is commenced in a proper court, except that,
 if credit is given and notice of the fact and terms of such
 credit is recorded in the office of the county recorder sub-
 sequent to the recording of such claim of lien and prior to
the expiration of such 90-day period, then such lien continues
in force until 90 days after the expiration of such credit, but
in no case longer than one year from the time of completion
of the work of improvement.
   3145. As against any purchaser or encumbrancer for value
and in good faith whose rights are acquired subsequent to
the expiration of the 90-day period following the recording
of the claim of lien, no giving of credit or extension of the
lien or of the time to enforce the same shall be effective unless
evidenced by a notice or agreement recorded in the office of
the county recorder prior to the acquisition of the rights of
such purchaser or encumbrancer.
   3146. After the filing of the complaint in the proper court,
the plaintiff may record in the office of the county recorder
 of the county, or of the several counties in which the property
is situated, a notice of the pendency of such proceedings, as
provided in Section 409 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Only
from the time of recording such notice shall a purchaser or
encumbrancer of the property affected thereby be deemed to
have constructive notice of the pendency of the action, and
in that event only of its pendency against parties designated
by their real names.
                     1969
Ch. 1362]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2767

    3147. If the action to foreclose the lien is not brought to
 trial within two years after the commencement thereof, the
 court may in its discretion dismiss the same for want of
 prosecution.
   3148. In all cases the dismissal of an action to foreclose the
lien (unless it is expressly stated that the same is without prej-
udice) or a judgment rendered therein that no lien exists shall
 be equivalent to the cancellation and removal from the record
of such lien.
   3149. Any number of persons claiming liens on the same
property may join in the same action to foreclose their liens
and when separate actions are commenced the court may con-
solidate them.
   3150. In addition to any other costs allowed by law, the
court in an action to foreclose a lien must also allow as costs
the money paid for verifying and recording the lien, such costs
to be allowed each claimant whose lien is established, whether
he be plaintiff or defendant.
   3151. Whenever on the sale of the property subject to any
liens provided for in this chapter, under a judgment of fore-
closure of such lien, there is a deficiency of proceeds, judg-
ment for the deficiency may be entered against any party per-
sonally liable therefor in like manner and with like effect as
in an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage.
   3152. Nothing contained in this title shall be construed to
impair or affect the right of any claimant to maintain a per-
sonal action to recover his debt against the person liable there-
for either in a separate action or in the action to foreclose his
lien, nor any right he may have to the issuance of a writ of
attachment or execution. In his affidavit to procure an attach-
ment he need not state that his demand is not secured by a lien.
The judgment, if any, obtained by the plaintiff in such per-
sonal action, or personal judgment obtained in such mechanics'
lien action, shall not impair or merge any lien held by the
plaintiff under this chapter, but any money collected on such
judgment shall be credited on the amount of such lien.
   3153. In all cases where a claim of lien is recorded for
labor, services, equipment, or materials furnished to any eon-
tractor, he shall defend any action brought thereon at his own
expense, and during the pendency of such action the owner
may withhold from the original contractor the amount of
money for which the claim of lien is recorded. In case of judg-
ment in such action against the owner or his property upon the
lien, the owner shall be entitled to deduct from any amount
then or thereafter due from him to the original contractor the
amount of such judgment and costs. If the amount of such
judgment and costs exceeds the amount due from him to the
original contractor, or if he has settled with the original con-
tractor in full, he shall be entitled to recover back from the
original contractor, or the sureties on any bond given by him
for the faithful performance of his contract, any amount of
2768                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           m j ^ 13Q2

such judgment and costs in excess of the contract price, and
for which the original contractor was originally the party
liable.
           CHAPTER 3. STOP NOTICES FOR PRIVATE
                  WORKS OP IMPROVEMENT

              Article 1. Application of Chapter
  3156. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to any
public work.
       Article 2. Who Is Entitled to Serve a Stop Notice
                   and Bonded Stop Notice
   3158. Any of the persons named in Sections 3110 and 3112,
other than the original contractor, may give to the owner a
stop notice. Any person who shall fail to serve such a stop
notice after a written demand therefor from the owner shall
forfeit his right to a mechanic's lien.
   3159. Any of the persons named in Sections 3110 and 3112,
other than the original contractor, may, prior to the expira-
tion of the period within which his claim of lien must be re-
corded under Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 3109),
give to a construction lender a stop notice or a bonded stop
notice unless a payment bond has previously been recorded in
the office of the county recorder of the county where the site
is located in accordance with Section 3235, except that the
payment bond may be recorded at any time prior to the serv-
ing of the first stop notice. Such notice may only be given for
materials, equipment, or services furnished, or labor per-
formed. For the purposes of this section, where an owner un-
dertakes construction on his own behalf, one who contracts
with him for a portion of the work is a subcontractor and
shall be entitled to give a stop notice.

         Article 3. Conditions to Valid Service of Stop
                 Notice and Bonded Stop Notice
  3160. Service of a stop notice or a bonded stop notice shall
be effective only if the claimant:
   (a) Gave the preliminary 20-day notice (private work) in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3097 if required by
that section; and
   (b) Served his stop notice as defined in Section 3103 or his
bonded stop notice as defined in Section 3083 prior to the ex-
piration of the period within which his claim of lien must be
recorded under Section 3115, 3116, or 3117.

       Article 4.   Effect of Stop Notice and Bonded Stop
                               Notice
   3161. I t shall be the duty of the owner upon receipt of a
stop notice pursuant to Section 3158 to withhold from the
                    19<39
Ch. 1362]                   REGULAR SESSION                 276$

 original contractor or from any person acting under his au-
thority and to whom labor or materials, or both, have been
 furnished, or agreed to be furnished, sufficient money due or to
become due to such contractor to answer such claim and any
claim of lien that may be recorded therefor, unless a payment
bond has been recorded pursuant to the provisions of Section
3235, in which case the owner may, but is not obligated to,
withhold such money.
   3162. Upon receipt of a stop notice pursuant to Section
3159, the construction lender may, and upon receipt of a
bonded stop notice the construction lender shall, withhold
from the borrower or other person to whom it or the owner
may be obligated to make payments or advancement out of
the construction fund, sufficient money to answer such claim
and any claim of lien that may be recorded therefor, unless a
payment bond has been recorded pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3235 at any time prior to the serving of the first
stop notice or bonded stop notice.
   3163. If the construction lender objects to the sufficiency of
the sureties on the bond accompanying the bonded stop notice,
he must give notice in writing of such objection to the claimant
within 20 days after the service of the bonded stop notice.
The claimant may within 10 days after the receipt of such
written objection substitute for the initial bond a bond in
like amount executed by a corporate surety licensed to write
such bonds in the State of California. If the claimant fails
to do so, the construction lender may disregard the bonded
stop notice and release all funds withheld in response thereto.

                     Article 5.   Priorities
   3166. No assignment by the owner or contractor of con-
struction loan funds, whether made before or after a stop
notice or bonded stop notice is given to a construction lender,
shall be held to take priority over the stop notice or bonded
stop notice, and such assignment shall have no effect insofar
 as the rights of claimants who give the stop notice or bonded
stop notice are concerned.
   3167. (a) If the money withheld or required to be with-
held pursuant to any bonded stop notice shall be insufficient
to pay in full the valid claims of all persons by whom such
notices were given, the same shall be distributed among such
persons in the same ratio that their respective claims bear to
the aggregate of all such valid claims. Such pro rata distribu-
tion shall be made among the persons entitled to share therein
without regard to the order of time in which their respective
notices may have been given or their respective actions, if
any, commenced.
   (b) If the money withheld or required to be withheld pur-
suant to any stop notice shall be insufficient to pay in full
the valid claims of all persons by whom such notices were
given, the same shall be distributed among such persons in
2770              STATUTES OS* CALIFORNIA             tQ^   1362

the same ratio that their respective claims bear to the aggre-
gate of all such valid claims. Such pro rata distribution shall
be made among the persons entitled to share therein without
regard to the order of time in which their respective notices
may have been given or their respective actions, if any, com-
menced.
   3168. Any person who willfully gives a false stop notice
or bonded stop notice or who willfully includes in his notice
labor, services, equipment, or materials not furnished for the
property described in such notice forfeits all right to partici-
pate in the pro rata distribution of such money and all right
to any lien under Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 3109).

             Article 6. Release of Stop Notice or
                     Bonded Stop Notice
  3171. If the owner, construction lender or any original con-
tractor or subcontractor disputes the correctness or validity
of any stop notice or bonded stop notice, he may file with the
person upon whom such notice was served a bond executed by
good and sufficient sureties in a penal sum equal to 1J times
the amount stated in such notice, conditioned for the payment
of any sum not exceeding the penal obligation of the bond
which the claimant may recover on the claim, together with
his costs of suit in the action, if he recovers therein. Upon
the filing of such bond, the funds withheld to respond to the
stop notice or bonded stop notice shall forthwith be released.

       Article 7. Enforcement of Rights Arising From
              Stop Notice and Bonded Stop Notice
   3172. No action to enforce payment of the claim stated in
any stop notice or bonded stop notice shall be commenced
against the owner or construction lender prior to the expira-
tion of the period within which claims of lien must be re-
corded as prescribed in Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
3109), nor shall any such action be commenced more than 90
days following the expiration of such period. No money shall
be withheld by reason of any such notice longer than such
90 days following the expiration of such period unless such ac-
tion is commenced. If no such action is commenced, such notice
shall cease to be effective and such moneys shall be paid or
delivered to the contractor or other person to whom they are
due. Notice of commencement of any such action shall be
given within five days after commencement thereof to the same
persons and in the same manner as provided for service of a
stop notice or bonded stop notice.
   3173. In case such action is commenced as provided in Sec-
tion 3172 but is not brought to trial within two years after
the commencement thereof, the court may in its discretion
dismiss the action for want of prosecution.
                       19S9
Ch. 1362]                     REGULAR SESSION                 2771

   3174. Upon the dismissal of an action to enforce a stop
notice or bonded stop notice, unless expressly stated to be
without prejudice, or upon a judgment rendered therein
against the claimant, the stop notice or bonded stop notice
shall cease to be effective and the moneys withheld shall be
paid or delivered to the person to whom they are due.
   3175. Any number of persons who have given stop notices
or bonded stop notices may join in the same action and when
separate actions are commenced the court first acquiring juris-
diction may consolidate them. Upon the motion of the owner
or construction lender the court shall require all claimants to
the moneys withheld pursuant to stop notices and bonded
stop notices to be impleaded in one action, to the end that the
respective rights of all parties may be adjudicated therein.
          CHAPTER 4.     STOP NOTICE FOB PUBLIC "WOKE

                Article 1. Application of Chapter
  3179.     The provisions of this chapter apply only to a public
work.

    Article 2. Who Is Entitled to Serve a Stop Notice
   3181. Any person, other than an original contractor, men-
tioned in Sections 3110 and 3112 furnishing provisions, prov-
ender, or other supplies, may serve a stop notice upon the
public entity responsible for such public work in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.

          Article 3.   Conditions to Service of Stop Notice
   3183. A claimant shall be entitled to enforce a stop notice
only if he has complied with each of the following conditions:
   (a) He shall have given the preliminary 20-day notice
 (public work) in accordance with Section 3098 if required by
that section.
   (b) He shall have filed his stop notice as defined in Section
3103 and in accordance with Section 3184.
   3184. To be effective, any stop notice pursuant to this
chapter must be served before the expiration of:
   (a) Thirty days after the recording of a notice of comple-
tion (sometimes referred to in public works as a notice of
acceptance) or notice of cessation, if such notice is recorded.
   (b) If no notice of completion or notice of cessation is
recorded, 90 days after completion or cessation.
   3185. No later than 10 days after the filing of a notice of
completion or after the cessation of labor has been deemed
a completion of the public work or after the acceptance of
completion, whichever is later, the public entity shall give
notice of the expiration of such period to each stop notice
claimant by personal service, or registered or certified mail.
When service is by registered or certified mail, service is com-
2772               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               T Q ^ 1362

plete at the time of the deposit of the registered or certified
mail in a United States post office, addressed to the claimant
at the address shown upon his stop notice claim. No such
notice need be given unless the claimant shall have paid to
the public entity the sum of two dollars ($2) at the time of
filing his stop notice.
    3186. I t shall be the duty of the public entity, upon re-
ceipt of a stop notice pursuant to this chapter, to withhold
from the original contractor, or from any person acting under
his" authority, money or bonds (where bonds are to be issued
in payment for the work of improvement) due or to become
due to such contractor in an amount sufficient to answer the
claim stated in such stop notice and to provide for the rea-
sonable cost of any litigation thereunder.
    3187. This chapter does not prohibit (a) the payment of
any money or bonds to the original contractor or his assignee
unless a stop notice is on file before the disbursing officer has
actually surrendered possession of either the warrant, check,
bonds, or money, or (b) the payment to the original contrac-
tor or his assignee of any money due him in excess of an
amount sufficient to answer the total amount of the claims
stated in stop notices on file at the time of such payment plus
such interest and court costs as might be reasonably antici-
pated in connection with the claims.

                      Article 4.   Priorities
   3190. If the money withheld pursuant to stop notices shall
be insufficient to pay in full all of the valid claims stated in
such notices, the same shall be distributed among the stop
notice claimants in the same ratio that their respective claims
bear to the aggregate of such valid claims, without regard
to the order of time in which their respective notices may
have been served or their respective actions, if any, com-
menced.
   3191. Nothing in this article shall impair the right of any
stop notice claimant to recover from the contractor or his
sureties any deficit that may remain unpaid after such pro
rata distribution in an action upon the bond provided for by
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 3247).
   3192. Any person who willfully gives a false stop notice
to the public entity or who willfully includes in his notice
labor, services, equipment, or materials not furnished for the
work of improvement with respect to which such notice is
given, forfeits all right to participate in the pro rata distribu-
tion of money or bonds withheld.
   3193. No assignment by the original contractor of any of
the money due or to become due to him under the contract,
or for " e x t r a s " in connection therewith whether made before
or after the service of a stop notice, takes priority over a stop
notice under this chapter and such assignment has no effect
on the rights of the stop notice claimants. Any garnishment
of such money by any creditor of the original contractor pur-
                     19
Ch. 1362]                 ^9 REGULAR SESSION                  2773

suant to Sections 710 and 710a of the Code of Civil Procedure
and any statutory lien thereon are subordinate to the rights
of all stop notice claimants.

               Article 5. Eelease of Stop Notice
   3196. If the original contractor or subcontractor disputes
the correctness or validity or enforceability of any stop notice,
the public entity may, in its discretion, permit the original
contractor to file with the public entity a bond executed by a
corporate surety, in an amount equal to 125 percent of the
claim stated in the stop notice conditioned for the payment of
any sum which the stop notice claimant may recover on the
claim together with his costs of suit in the action, if he recovers
therein. Upon the filing of such bond with the public entity,
the public entity shall not withhold any money or bonds (where
bonds are to be issued in payment for the work of improve-
ment) from the original contractor on account of the stop no-
tice. The surety or sureties upon such bond shall be jointly and
severally liable to the stop notice claimant with the surety or
sureties upon any payment bond furnished pursuant to Chap-
ter 7 (commencing with Section 3247).
   3197. If the original contractor asserts (1) that the claim
upon which the stop notice is based is not included within
the types or classifications of claims referred to in this article,
or (2) that the claimant is not one of the persons named in
Section 3181, or (3) that the amount of the claim as speci-
fied in the stop notice is excessive, or (4) that there is no
basis in law for the claim as referred to and set out in the stop
notice, he may have the question determined in a summary
proceedings in accordance with the provisions of Sections
3198 to 3205, inclusive.
   3198. The original contractor shall serve upon the public
entity an affidavit and a copy thereof alleging the legal
grounds upon which he bases his claim and the facts in sup-
port thereof, and demanding the release of all or such portion
of such money or bonds as is alleged to be withheld improperly
or in an excessive amount. Such affidavit shall also state the
address of the original contractor within this state for the
purpose of permitting service by mail upon him of any notice
or legal document.
   3199. The public entity shall serve upon the claimant,
either personally or by registered or certified mail, addressed
to the last known address of the claimant, a copy of the
affidavit and the demand for release together with a written
notice stating that the public entity will release such money
or bonds, or such portion of either as has been demanded,
unless the claimant files with the public entity a counteraffi-
davit on or before a time designated in the notice, which shall
not be less than 10, nor more than 20 days, after service upon
the claimant of the copy of such affidavit. Proof of service
shall be made by an affidavit.
2774              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Ob. 1362

   3200. If the claimant desires to contest the original con-
tractor's affidavit and demand for release, he shall, within the
time allowed, serve upon the public entity a counteraffidavit
alleging the details of his claim and shall also set forth in
detail the specific basis upon which he contests or rebuts the
allegations of the original contractor's affidavit, together with
proof of service of a copy of such counteraffidavit upon the
original contractor. If no such counteraffidavit with proof of
service is served upon the public entity within the time al-
lowed, then the public entity shall forthwith release the money
or bonds, or such portion thereof as has been demanded by
such affidavit, without further notice to the claimant, and the
public entity shall not be liable in any manner for making
sueh release. The public entity shall not be responsible for the
validity of the affidavit or counteraffidavit.
    3201. If such counteraffidavit, together with proof of serv-
ice, is so filed, either the original contractor or the claimant
may file an action in the appropriate superior court for a
declaration of the respective rights of the parties. After the
filing of such action, either the original contractor or the
claimant shall be entitled to a hearing by the court for the
purpose of determining his rights under the affidavit and
demand for release and the counteraffidavit. Such hearing
must be granted by the court within 15 days from the date of
making of such motion, unless continued by the court for good
cause. The party making the motion for hearing must give
not less than five days' notice in writing of such hearing to the
public entity and to the other party.
    3202. At such hearing, the original contractor shall have
the burden of proof. The affidavit and counteraffidavit shall
be filed with the court by the public entity and they shall
constitute the pleadings, subject to the power of the court to
permit an amendment in the interest of justice. The affidavit
of the original contractor shall be deemed controverted by the
counteraffidavit, and both shall be received in evidence.
    3203. No findings shall be required in a summary proceed-
ing under this article. When the hearing is before the court
sitting without a j u r y and no evidence other than the affidavit
and counteraffidavit is offered, if the court is satisfied that
sufficient facts are shown thereby, it may make its determina-
tion thereon; otherwise, it shall order the hearing continued
for the production of other evidence, oral or documentary, or
the filing of other affidavits and counteraffidavits. At the con-
clusion of the hearing, the court shall make and enter its order
determining whether the demand for release shall be allowed
or not, which order shall be determinative as to the right of
the claimant to have the money or bonds further withheld
by the public entity. The original contractor shall serve a copy
of such order on the public entity.
    3204. Nothing contained in this article shall be construed
to deprive any party of the right to a trial by jury in any
Ch. 1362]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                   2775

case where such right is given by the California Constitution,
but a jury trial may be waived in like manner as in the trial
of an action.
   3205. No determination in the summary proceedings under
this article shall be res judicata with respect to any right of
action by the claimant against either principal or surety on
any labor and material bond or with respect to any right of
action against any party personally liable to the claimant.

               Article 6. Enforcement of Rights
                   Arising From Stop Notice
   3210. No action to enforce payment of the claim stated in
any stop notice shall be commenced against the original con-
tractor and the public entity prior to the expiration of the
period within which stop notices must be filed as provided
in Section 3184, nor shall any such action be commenced more
than 90 days following the expiration of such period; pro-
vided, however, that if the claim arises out of a work of
improvement that is subject to acceptance by a city, county,
or other local public entity, then the action shall be commenced
not less than 90 days nor more than 180 days after the last
delivery of materials or performance of work. No money or
bond shall be withheld by reason of any such notice longer
than such 90 days following the expiration of such period un-
less proceedings be commenced in a proper court within that
time by the claimant to enforce his claim, and if such proceed-
ings have not been commenced such notice shall cease to be
effective and the moneys or bonds withheld shall be paid or
delivered to the contractor or other person to whom they are
due.
   3211. Notice of the commencement of any such action shall
be given to the public entity within five days after com-
mencement of the action described in Section 3210 in the same
manner as provided in Section 3103.
   3212. In case such action is commenced as provided in Sec-
tion 3210 but is not brought to trial within two years after
the commencement thereof, the court may in its discretion
dismiss the same for want of prosecution.
   3213. In all cases upon the dismissal of an action com-
menced as provided in Section 3210, unless expressly stated
to be without prejudice, or upon a judgment rendered therein
against the claimant, the stop notice shall cease to be effective
and the moneys or bonds withheld shall be paid or delivered
to the person to whom they are due.
   3214. Any number of persons who have given stop notices
may join the same action and when separate actions are com-
menced the court first acquiring jurisdiction may consolidate
them. Upon the request of the public entity the court shall
require all claimants to the moneys withheld pursuant to stop
notices to be impleaded in one action, to the end that the
respective rights of all parties may be adjudicated therein.
2776              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              \Gh. 1362

    CHAPTER 5.    GENERAL PROVISIONS EELATING TO BONDS

         Article 1.   Construction of and Terms and
                      Conditions of Bonds
   3225. The surety or sureties on any bond given pursuant
to any of the provisions of this title shall not be exonerated
or released from the obligation of the bond by any change,
alteration, or modification in or of any contract, plans, speci-
fications, or agreement pertaining or relating to any scheme
or work of improvement or pertaining or relating to the
furnishing of labor, materials, or equipment therefor, nor by
any change or modification of any terms of payment or ex-
tension of the time for any payment pertaining or relating
to any scheme or work of improvement, nor by any rescission
or attempted rescission of the contract, agreement or bond,
nor by any conditions precedent or subsequent in the bond
attempting to limit the right of recovery of claimants other-
wise entitled to recover under any such contract or agreement
or under the bond, nor, where the bond is given for the
benefit of claimants, by any fraud practiced by any person
other than the claimant seeking to recover on the bond.
    3226. Any bond given pursuant to the provisions of this
title will be construed most strongly against the surety and
in favor of all persons for whose benefit such bond is given,
 and under no circumstances shall a surety be released from
liability to those for whose benefit such bond has been given,
by reason of any breach of contract between the owner and
 original contractor or on the part of any obligee named in
 such bond, but the sole conditions of recovery shall be that
 claimant is a person described in Section 3110 or 3112, and
 has not been paid the full amount of his claim.
    3227. Any bond given pursuant to any of the provisions
 of this title which otherwise fully complies therewith shall be
 a good and sufficient bond if the surety thereon is a corpora-
 tion duly authorized to issue surety bonds in this state.
    3228. A certified copy of any bond which has been recorded
pursuant to this title may be admitted in evidence in an action
 or proceeding with the same effect as the original instrument,
 without further proof.

       CHAPTER 6.     PAYMENT BOND FOR PRTVATE WORKS

         Article 1. Provision for and Effect of Filing
                 Contract and Payment Bond
   3235. I n case the original contract for a private work of
improvement is filed in the office of the county recorder of
the county where the property is situated before the work
is commenced, and the payment bond of the original con-
tractor in an amount not less than 50 percent of the contract
price named in such contract is recorded in such office, then
the court must, where it would be equitable so to do, restrict
Cb.1362]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                   2777

the recovery under lien claims to an aggregate amount equal
to the amount found to be due from the owner to the original
contractor and render judgment against the original contrac-
tor and his sureties on such bond for any deficiency or differ-
ence there may remain between such amount so found to be
due to the original contractor and the whole amount found to
be due to claimants.
   3236. It is the intent and purpose of Section 3235 to limit
the owner's liability, in all cases, to the measure of the con-
tract price where he shall have filed or caused to be filed in
good faith his original contract and recorded a payment bond
as therein provided. I t shall be lawful for the owner to pro-
tect himself against any failure of the original contractor to
perform his contract and make full payment for all work done
and materials furnished thereunder by exacting such bond or
other security as he may deem necessary.

     Article 2.   Conditions to Action on Payment Bond
   3239. No provision in any payment bond given pursuant
to any of the provisions of this chapter attempting by con-
tract to shorten the period prescribed in Section 337 of the
 Code of Civil Procedure for the commencement of an action
thereon shall be valid if such provision attempts to limit the
time for commencement of action thereon to a shorter period
than six months from the completion of any work of improve-
ment, nor shall any provision in any of such bonds attempting
to limit the period for the commencement of actions thereon
be valid insofar as actions brought by claimants are concerned,
unless such bond is recorded, before the work of improvement
is commenced, with the county recorder of the county in which
the property referred to therein is situated.
   3240. In case the surety or sureties on any payment bond
given pursuant to this chapter record such bond in the office
of the county recorder of the county in which the property
is situated before the work of improvement is completed, then
no action may be maintained thereon unless there shall pre-
viously have been either a mechanic's lien claim recorded pur-
suant to this title or written notice given to the surety on
such bond before the expiration of the time prescribed in this
title for recording a lien to enforce such claim, which notice
shall contain all of the following:
   (a) The kind of labor, services, equipment, or materials fur-
nished or agreed to be furnished by such claimant.
   (b) The name of the person to or for whom the same was
done or furnished.
   (c) The amount in value, as near as may be, of that al-
ready done or furnished and of the whole agreed to be done
or furnished.
   The filing of an action to foreclose such lien shall not be a
condition precedent to a recovery on such bond. If such bond
2778              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r Qfo 1 3 6 2

has been so recorded then any suit brought against such
surety or sureties shall be filed within six months after com-
pletion of said work of improvement.
   3241. The written notice to be given to the surety or sure-
ties as provided in Section 3240 may be given by delivery
thereof personally to, or by depositing same in the mail, post-
age prepaid, and certified or registered, addressed in accord-
 ance with any of the following which may be applicable:
   (a) If to an individual surety, at his residence or place of
business, if known.
   (b) If to an individual surety and his residence is unknown,
then in care of the county clerk of the county in which such
bond has been recorded.
   (c) If to a corporate surety, at the office or care of the
 agent designated by the surety in the bond as the address
to which such notice shall be sent.
    (d) At the office or care of any officer of the surety in the
 State of California.
   (e) At the office of or care of the statutory agent of the
 surety in the State of California.
   (f) By service in the manner prescribed for the service of
 summons as provided in Section 411 of the Code of Civil
 Procedure.

       CHAPTER 7.    PAYMENT BOND FOR PUBLIC WORKS

    3247. Every original contractor to whom is awarded a con-
 tract by a public entity involving an expenditure in excess
 of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) for any public
work shall, before entering upon the performance of the work,
file a payment bond with and approved by the officer or public
entity by whom the contract was awarded.
   3248. To be approved the payment bond shall be executed
by either two or more good and sufficient sureties or by a cor-
porate surety and shall satisfy all of the following require-
ments :
    (a) Be in a sum not less than that prescribed in the follow-
ing paragraph which is applicable to the total amount pay-
able:
    (1) One-half of the total amount payable by the terms of
the contract when the total amount payable does not equal
or exceed five million dollars ($5,000,000).
    (2) One-fourth of the total amount payable by the terms
of the contract when the total amount payable is not less than
five million dollars ($5,000,000) and does not exceed ten mil-
lion dollars ($10,000,000).
    (3) If the total amount payable by the terms of the con-
tract exceeds ten million dollars ($10,000,000), a payment
bond in the sum of two million five hundred thousand dollars
 ($2,500,000) is sufficient.
    (b) Provide that if the original contractor or his sub-
contractor fails to pay any of the persons named in Sec-
                              1969
          Ch. 1362]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2779

          tion 3181, or amounts due under the Unemployment Insur-
           ance Code with respect to work or labor performed by any
          siich claimant, that the surety or sureties will pay for the-
           same, in an amount not exceeding the sum specified in the
           bDnd, and also, in case suit is brought upon the bond, a rea-
           spnable attorney's fee, to be fixed by the court. The origi-
           nal contractor may require of his subcontractors a bond to
           indemnify the original contractor for any loss sustained by
           the original contractor because of any default by his sub-
          contractors under this section.
              (c) By its terms inure to the benefit of any of the persons
          named in Section 3181 so as to give a right of action to such
          persons or their assigns in any suit brought upon the bond.
              3249. Suit against the surety or sureties on the payment
          bond may be brought by any claimant, or his assigns, at any
        , time after the claimant has furnished the last of the labor or
          materials, or both, but must be commenced before the expira-
          tion of six months after the period in which stop notices may
          be filed as provided in Section 3184.
              3250. The filing of a stop notice is not a condition prece-
          dent to the maintenance of an action against the surety or
          sureties on the payment bond. An action on the payment
          bond may be maintained separately from and without the
          filing of an action against the public entity by whom the
          contract was awarded or any officer thereof. Upon the trial of
          the action, the court shall award to the prevailing party a
          reasonable attorney's fee, to be taxed as costs, and to be in-
          cluded in the judgment therein rendered.
              3251. Unless a payment bond is filed and approved as pro-
          vided in this chapter, no claim in favor of the original con-
          tractor arising under the contract shall be audited, allowed
          or paid by the public entity awarding the contract or any
          officer thereof. Claimants shall receive payment of their respec-
          tive claims in the manner provided by Chapter 4 (commenc-
          ing with Section 3179) upon complying with the provisions
          thereof.
              3252. In order to enforce a claim upon any payment bond
          given in connection with a public work, a claimant must give
          the 90-day public works preliminary bond notice as provided
          in Section 3091.

                      CHAPTER 8.     MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

             3258. The county recorder shall number, index, and pre-
          serve all contracts, plans, and other papers presented to him
\         for filing pursuant to this title, and shall number, index, and
    \     transcribe into the official records in his office in the same
          manner as a conveyance of land, all notices, claims of lien,
          payment bonds, and other papers recorded pursuant to this
          title. He shall receive therefor the fees prescribed in Article 5
          (commencing with Section 27360), Chapter 6, Part 3, Divi-
          sion 2, Title 3 of the Government Code.
2780              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ C h . 1362

   3259. Except as otherwise provided in this title, the pro-
visions of Part 2 (commencing with Section 307) of the Code
of Civil Procedure are applicable to, and constitute the rules
of practice in, the proceedings mentioned in this title. The
provisions of Part 2 (commencing with Section 307) of the
Code of Civil Procedure, relative to new trials and appeals,
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
this title or with rules adopted by the Judicial Council, apply
to the proceedings mentioned in this title.
   3260. Whenever materials shall have been furnished for
use in any work of improvement or mining claim, such mate-
rials shall not be subject to attachment, execution, or other
legal process, to enforce any debt due by the purchaser of such
materials, except a debt due for the purchase price thereof, so
long as the same are about to be applied in good faith to the
work of improvement or mining claim.
   3261. No mistake or errors in the statement of the demand,
or of the amount of credits and offsets allowed, or of the bal-
ance asserted to be due the claimant, or in the description of
the property against which the lien is recorded, shall invali-
date the lien, unless the court finds that such mistake or error
in the statement of the demand, credits and offsets, or of the
balance due, was made with the intent to defraud, or that an
innocent third party, without notice, direct or constructive,
has since the claim was recorded become the bona fide owner of
the property, and that the notice of claim was so deficient that
it did not put the party on further inquiry in any manner.
   3262. Neither the owner nor original contractor by any
term of their contract, or otherwise, shall waive, affect, or
impair the claims and liens of other persons whether with or
without notice except by their written consent and any term
of the contract to that effect shall be null and void.
   3263. No act done by an owner in good faith and in com-
pliance with any of the provisions of this title shall be held
to be a prevention of the performance of any contract between
the owner and an original contractor by an original contrac-
tor, or to exonerate the sureties on any bond given for faithful
performance or for the payment of claimants.
   3264. The rights of all persons furnishing labor, services,
equipment, or materials for any work of improvement, with
respect to any fund for payment of construction costs, are
governed exclusively by Chapters 3 (commencing with Section
3156) and 4 (commencing with Section 3179) of this title, and
no person may assert any legal or equitable right with respect
to such fund, other than a right created by direct written
contract between such person and the person holding the fund,
except pursuant to the provisions of such chapters.
   3265. The claim filing procedures set forth in Part 3 (com-
mencing with Section 900) of Division 3.6 of Title 1 of the
Government Code do not apply to actions commenced pursuant
to Section 3210 of this code.
                    1969
Ch. 13621                  REGULAR SESSION                  2?8l

   3266. (a) This title does not supersede the Oil and Gas
Lien Act, Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1203.50),
Title 4, Part 3, of the Code of Civil Procedure, and the pro-
visions of that act shall govern those transactions to which it
applies rather than the provisions of this title.
   (b) This title does not supersede Chapter 12 (commencing
with Section 5290), Part 3, Division 7, of the Streets and
Highways Code, and the provisions of that chapter shall
govern those transactions to which it applies rather than the
provisions of this title.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 710a of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   710a. In the event the judgment debtor named in any
transcript of judgment filed under the provisions of Section
710 of this code, approved March 21, 1903, be a contractor
upon any public work, the cost of which is to be paid out of
any public moneys voted, appropriated or otherwise set apart
for the purpose of paying therefor, only so much of the con-
tract price shall be deemed owing to the contractor, within
the meaning of said section, as may remain payable to him
under the terms of his contract, upon the completion thereof,
after the sums severally due and to become due to all persons
who perform labor upon such work or who bestow skill or
other necessary services, or furnish materials, appliances,
teams or power used or consumed in the performance of such
work, have been ascertained and paid. I n ascertaining the
sums severally due or to become due the persons who perform
labor upon public works or other necessary services, or furnish
materials, appliances, teams or power used or consumed in the
performance of such work, only such claims shall be consid-
ered as are filed against the moneys due or to become due the
judgment debtor in accordance with the provisions of Chap-
ter 4 (commencing with Section 3179) of Title 15 of P a r t
4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code. The controller, auditor, or
other public disbursing officer whose duty it is to make pay-
ments under the provisions of such contract shall not draw
his warrant in favor of the court from the docket of which
the transcript was taken until said contract is completed and
the payments above specified are made, and then only for the
excess, if any, of the contract price over the aggregate of the
sums so paid.
   SEC. 3. Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1181) of
Title 4 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 1203.61 of the Code of Civil Procedure
is amended to read:
   1203.61. (a) Any lien provided for by this chapter shall
be enforced in the same manner as provided in Title 15 (com-
mencing with Section 3082), P a r t 4, Division 3, of the Civil
Code. Such action shall be filed within 180 days from the time
of the recording of the lien provided for herein. If a credit be
given and notice of the fact and terms of such credit be filed in
2782               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ ^362

the office of the county recorder subsequent to the filing of such
lien and prior to the expiration of said 180-day period, then
such lien continues in force until 180 days after the expira-
tion of such credit, but no lien continues in force by reason
of any agreement to give credit for a longer time than one
year from the time the work is completed. If the proceedings
to enforce the lien be not prosecuted to trial within two years
after the commencement thereof, the court may in its discre-
tion dismiss the same for want of prosecution, and in all
cases the dismissal of such action (unless it be expressly stated
that the same is without prejudice) or a judgment rendered
therein that no lien exists shall be equivalent to the cancella-
tion and removal from the record of such lien.
   (b) As against any purchaser or encumbrancer for value
and in good faith whose rights are acquired subsequent to
the expiration of the 180-day period following the filing of
such lien, no giving of credit or extension of the lien or
time to enforce the same shall be effective unless evidenced by
a notice or agreement filed for record in the office of the
county recorder prior to the acquisition of the rights of such
purchaser or encumbrancer.
   SEC. 5. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 4200) of
Division 5 of Title 1 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 6. Section 5463 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   5463. Any health officer or governing board of any city,
county, or sanitary district, having served written notice upon
the owner or reputed owner of land upon which there is a
dwelling house, and such owner or reputed owner, after 30
days, having refused, neglected, or failed to connect such
dwelling house, together with all toilets, sinks, and other
plumbing therein, properly vented, and in a sanitary man-
ner, with the adjoining street sewer, may construct the same
at a reasonable cost, and the person doing said work at the
request of such health officer or governing board has a lien
upon said real estate for his work done .and materials fur-
nished, and such work done and materials furnished shall be
held to have been done and furnished at the instance of
such owner or reputed owner, or person claiming or having
any interest therein. Such governing board may pay all or
any part of the cost or price of such connection to the per-
son or persons who furnished labor, materials, or equipment
for the same, and, to the extent such governing board pays
the cost or price of said connection, it shall succeed to and
have all the rights, including the lien provided for above, of
such person or persons against the real estate and against
the owner or reputed owner thereof.
   As an alternative power to the enforcement of the lien
provided for in this section, the governing body of the public
agency performing the work of connection to the public sewer
may, by order entered upon its minutes, declare that the
amount of the costs of such work and the administrative
                     i969
Ch. 1362]                   tiEGUtAR SESSION                  2783

expenses incurred by the governing body inci'dent to the pro-
ceedings, together with other charges uniformly applicable
within the jurisdiction of the governing body for the con-
nection of the premises to the public sewer, shall be trans-
mitted to the assessor and tax collector of the public agency,
whereupon it shall be the duty of those officers to add the
amount of the* assessment to the next regular bill for taxes
levied against the lot or parcel of land.
   The liens provided for by this section shall be enforced in
the same manner as those provided for by Title 15 (com-
mencing with Section 3082), Part 4, Division 3, of the Civil
Code.
   SEC. 7. Section 5294 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   5294. No assignment by the contractor of the whole or
any part of the money, assessment, partial assessment, any
reassessment and any bonds which may be issued to represent
any assessment or reassessment, due him or to be due him
under the contract, or for " e x t r a s " in connection therewith,
 whether made before or after a verified claim is filed pur-
suant to this chapter, shall take priority over such claims,
and such assignment shall have no binding force insofar as
the rights of the claimants, or their assigns, are concerned.
None of the provisions of Title 15 (commencing with Sec-
tion 3082), Part 4, Division 3, of the Civil Code, shall be
applicable to any assessment, partial assessment, reassessment,
bonds, moneys or funds payable to the contractor or his as-
signee under this division or to any matter contained in this
chapter.
   SEC. 8. Section 10509 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   10509. The provisions of Title 15 (commencing with Sec-
tion 3082), Part 4, Division 3, of the Civil Code are hereby ex-
pressly made applicable to the construction of works and
improvements under this division.
   SEC. 9. If any provision or clause of this act or the ap-
plication thereof to any person or circumstance is held in-
valid, such invalidity shall not affect any provisions or ap-
plication of this act which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provi-
sions of this act are declared to be severable.
   SEC. 10. It is the intent of the Legislature, in enacting
this act, to revise and restate the laws of this state relating
to mechanics' liens and works of improvement. This act shall
not be construed to constitute a change in, but shall be con-
strued as declaratory of, the preexisting law.
   SEC. 11. This act shall become operative January 1, 1971.
   SEC. 12. Any section of any other act, enacted by the
Legislature at its 1969 Regular Session prior or subsequent to
the enactment of this act, which amends, adds, or repeals any
section of any code which is amended, added, or repealed by
this act, shall prevail over this act.
   88—1954
2784                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     r Q i . 1363

                          CHAPTER 1363
       An act to amend Section 10751 of the Education           Code,
                    relating to pupils' records.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10751 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   10751. No teacher, principal, employee, or governing board
member of any public, private, or parochial school, including
colleges and universities, shall permit access to any written
records concerning any particular pupil enrolled in the school
in any class to any person except under judicial process unless
the person is one of the following:
   (a) Either parent or a guardian of such pupil.
   (b) A person designated, in writing, by such pupil if he is
 an adult, or by either parent or a guardian of such pupil if
he is a minor.
    (c) An officer or employee of a public, private, or parochial
school where the pupil attends, has attended, or intends to
enroll.
    (d) A state, or local law enforcement officer, including a
probation officer, parole officer or administrator, or a member
of a parole board, seeking information in the course of his
duties.
   (e) The State Superintendent of Public Instruction, or a
member of his staff, or the county superintendent of schools
of the county where the pupil attends, has attended, or in-
tends to enroll, or a member of his staff.
   Restrictions imposed by this act are not intended to inter-
fere with the preparation and distribution of junior college,
college and university student directories or with the furnish-
ing of lists of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of
junior college, college and university students to proprietors
of off-campus housing. Such restrictions are not intended to
interfere with the giving of information by school personnel
concerning participation in athletics and other school activi-
ties, the winning of scholastic or other honors and awards,
and other like information. Notwithstanding the restrictions
imposed by this section, a governing board may, in its discre-
tion, provide information to the staff of a college, university,
or educational research and development organization or labo-
ratory if such information is necessary to a research project
or study conducted, sponsored, or approved by the college,
university, or educational research and development organiza-
tion or laboratory and if no pupil will be identified by name in
the information submitted for research, and an employer or
potential employer of the pupil may be furnished the age and
                       1969
Ch. 1364]                     REGULAR SESSION                    2785

scholastic record of the pupil and employment recommenda-
tions prepared by members of the school staff, and rosters or
lists containing the names and addresses of seniors in public,
private, or parochial high schools or junior colleges may be
furnished to private business or professional schools and col-
leges. Notwithstanding the restrictions imposed by this section,
school personnel of a public, private, or parochial high school
may furnish the names and addresses of graduating seniors to
elected federal, state, county, or district officials.


                          C H A P T E E 1364
An act to amend Section 3097 of the Civil Code as added by
  Senate Bill No. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session and to
  amend Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure, relating
  to mechanics' liens.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 19 69. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
  1193. (a) Except one under direct contract with the
owner or one performing actual labor for wages, every person
who furnishes labor, service, equipment or material for which
a lien otherwise can be claimed under this chapter, or for
which a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under this
chapter, must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of
any claim of lien and of the notice to withhold, cause to be
given to the owner or reputed owner, to the original contractor
or reputed contractor, and to the construction lender, if any,
or to the reputed construction lender, if any, a written pre-
liminary notice as prescribed by this section.
   (b) All persons having a direct contract with the owner,
except the contractor or one performing actual labor for
wages, who furnish iabor, service, equipment, or material for
which a lien otherwise can be claimed under this chapter, or
for which a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under
this chapter, must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity
of any claim of lien and of the notice to withhold, cause to be
given to the construction lender, if any, or to the reputed con-
struction lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as pre-
scribed by subdivision (c) of this section.
   (c) The preliminary notice referred to in subdivisions (a)
and (b) above shall be given not later than 20 days after the
claimant has first furnished labor, services, equipment, or ma-
terials to the jobsite and shall contain the following informa-
tion:
2786               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQh. 1364

   1. A general description of the labor, service, equipment or
materials furnished, or to be furnished, and if there is a con-
struction lender, he shall be furnished with an estimate of the
total price thereof in addition to the foregoing.
   2. The name and address of such person furnishing such
labor, services, equipment or materials.
   3. The name of the person who contracted for purchase of
such labor, services, equipment or materials.
   4. A description of the jobsite sufficient for identification
   5. A statement that if bills are not paid in full for labor,
services, equipment or materials furnished, or to be furnished,
the improved property may be subject to mechanics' liens.
   If an invoice for such materials contains the information re-
quired by this section, a copy of such invoice, transmitted in
the manner prescribed by this section, shall be sufficient notice.
   A certificated architect, registered engineer, or licensed land
 surveyor who has furnished services for the design of the work
of improvement and who gives a preliminary notice as pro-
vided in this section not later than 20 days after the work of
improvement has commenced shall be deemed to have complied
with subdivisions (a) and (b) of this section with respect to
architectural, engineering, or surveying services furnished, or
to be furnished.
   (d) If labor, service, equipment, or materials have been
furnished to a jobsite by a person who elected not to give a
preliminary notice as provided in subdivision (a) or (b), such
person shall not be precluded from giving a preliminary notice
not later than 20 days after furnishing other labor, service,
equipment, or materials to the same jobsite; provided, how-
ever, that such person shall be entitled to claim a lien and a
notice to withhold only for such labor, service, equipment, or
material furnished within 20 days prior to the service of such
notice and at any time thereafter.
   (e) Any agreement made or entered into by an owner
whereby the owner agrees to waive the rights or privileges
conferred upon him by this section shall be void and of no
effect.
   (f) Service of notice required under this section may be
given by delivering the same to the person to be notified, per-
sonally, or by leaving it at his address or place of business
with some person in charge, or by first-class mail, registered
mail, or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the per-
son to whom notice is to be given, at his residence or place of
business address, or at the address shown by the building
permit on file with the authority issuing a building permit
for the work. If the address of the person on whom notice was
required to be served is not actually known, then service of
such notice may be by first-class mail, registered mail, or
certified mail addressed to the jobsite with the envelope
setting forth the name of the owner or reputed owner, if
known, or if not known, then merely " O w n e r , " or to the
                    1969 R E G U L A R
Ch 13641                                 SESSION           2787

 person to whom a notice to withhold may be given, if known,
 or if net known, then to "Construction Lender," or to the
 original contractor, if known, or if not known, then to "Gen-
 eral Contractor." When service is by registered or certified
 mail, service is complete at the time of the deposit of the
 registered or certified mail.
    (g) A person required by this section to give notice to the
 owner and to an original contractor and to a person to whom
 a notice to withhold may be given, need give only one such
 notice to the owner, and to the original contractor and to the
 person to whom a notice to withhold may be given with
 respect to all materials, service, labor, or equipment he fur-
nishes for a work of improvement, which means the entire
structure or scheme of improvements as a whole, unless the
same is furnished under contracts with more than one sub-
contractor, in which event the notice requirements must be
met with respect to materials, services, labor, or equipment
furnished to each such subcontractor.
   If a notice contains a general description required by sub-
division (a) or (b) of the materials, services, labor, or equip-
ment furnished to the date of the notice, it is not defective
because, after such date, the person giving notice furnishes
materials, services, labor or equipment not within the scope of
such general description.
    (h) Where the contract price to be paid to any subcontrac-
tor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four hundred
dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, licensed under
Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of
the Business and Professions Code, to give the notice provided
for in this section constitutes grounds for disciplinary action
by the Registrar of Contractors.
    (i) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
public work which is subject to the notice provisions of Section
4210 of the Government Code.
   (j) Every city, county, city and county, or other govern-
mental authority issuing building permits shall, in its applica-
tion form for a building permit, provide space and a designa-
tion for the applicant to enter the name, branch designation if
any, and address of the construction lender and shall keep such
information on file open for public inspection during the regu-
lar business hours of the authority.
   If there is no known construction lender, that fact shall be
noted in such designated space. Any failure to indicate the
name and address of the construction lender on such applica-
tion, however, shall not relieve any person from the obligation
to give to such construction lender the notice required by this
section.
   SEC. 2. Section 3097 of the Civil Code, as added by Senate
Bill No. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   3097. "Preliminary 20-day notice (private w o r k ) " means
a written notice from a claimant that is given prior to the
2788               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1364

recording of a mechanic's lien and prior to the filing of a stop
notice, and is required to be given under the following circum-
stances :
   (a) Except one under direct contract with the owner or one
performing actual labor for wages, every person who furnishes
labor, service, equipment, or material for which a lien other-
wise can be claimed under this title, or for which a notice to
withhold can otherwise be given under this title, must, as a
necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim of lien, and
of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the owner or
reputed owner, to the original contractor, or reputed contrac-
tor, and to the construction lender, if any, or to the reputed
construction lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as
prescribed by this section.
   (b) All persons having a direct contract with the owner,
except the contractor or one performing actual labor for wages,
who furnish labor, service, equipment, or material for which
a lien otherwise can be claimed under this title, or for which
a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under this title,
must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim
of lien, and of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the
construction lender, if any, or to the reputed construction
lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as prescribed by
this section.
   (c) The preliminary notice referred to in subdivisions (a)
and (b) shall be given not later than 20 days after the claim-
ant has first furnished labor, service, equipment, or materials
to the jobsite, and shall contain the following information:
   (1) A general description of the labor, service, equipment,
or materials furnished, or to be furnished, and if there is a
construction lender, he shall be furnished with an estimate of
the total price thereof in addition to the foregoing.
   (2) The name and address of such person furnishing such
labor, services, equipment, or materials.
   (3) The name of the person who contracted for purchase
of such labor, service, equipment, or materials.
   (4) A description of the jobsite sufficient for identification.
   (5) A statement that if bills are not paid in full for labor,
service, equipment, or material furnished, or to be furnished,
the improved property may be subject to mechanic's liens.
   If an invoice for such materials contains the information
required by this section, a copy of such invoice, transmitted
in the manner prescribed by this section shall be sufficient
notice.
   A certificated architect, registered engineer, or licensed land
surveyor who has furnished services for the design of the work
of improvement and who gives a preliminary notice as pro-
vided in this section not later than 20 days after the work of
improvement has commenced shall be deemed to have complied
with subdivisions (a) and (b) with respect to architectural,
engineering, or surveying services furnished, or to be fur-
nished.
                     1969
Ch. 1364]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2789

     (d) If labor, service, equipment, or materials have been fur-
 nished to a jobsite by a person who elected not to give a
 preliminary notice as provided in subdivision (a) or (b), such
 person shall not be precluded from giving a preliminary notice
 not later than 20 days after furnishing other labor, service,
 equipment, or materials to the same jobsite. Such person shall,
 however, be entitled to claim a lien and a notice to withhold
 only for such labor, service, equipment, or material furnished
 within 20 days prior to the service of such notice, and at any
 time thereafter.
     (e) Any agreement made or entered into by an owner,
 whereby the owner agrees to waive the rights or privileges
 conferred upon him by this section shall be void and of no
 effect.
     (f) Service of notice required under this section may be
 given by delivering the same to the person to be notified,
 personally, or by leaving it at his address or place of busi-
 ness with some person in charge, or by first-class mail, reg-
 istered mail, or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
 the person to whom notice is to be given at his residence or
 place of business address, or at the address shown by the
 building permit on file with the authority issuing a building
 permit for the work. If the address of the person on whom no-
 tice was required to be served is not actually known, then
 service of such notice may be by first-class mail, registered
mail, or certified mail, addressed to the jobsite, with the enve-
lope setting forth the name of the owner or reputed owner, if
known, or if not known, then merely " o w n e r " or to the per-
son to whom a notice to withhold may be given, if known, or
if not known, then to '' construction lender " or to the original
contractor, if known, or if not known, then to "general con-
tractor. '' When service is by registered or certified mail, serv-
ice is complete at the time of the deposit of the registered or
certified mail.
    (g) A person required by this section to give notice to the
owner and to an original contractor, and to a person to whom
a notice to withhold may be given, need give only one such
notice to the owner, and to the original contractor and to the
person to whom a notice to withhold may be given with respect
to all materials, service, labor, or equipment he furnishes for a
work of improvement, which means the entire structure or
scheme of improvements as a whole, unless the same is fur-
nished under contracts with more than one subcontractor, in
which event, the notice requirements must be met with respect
to materials, services, labor, or equipment furnished to each
such contractor.
    If a notice contains a general description required by sub-
division (a) or (b) of the materials, services, labor, or equip-
ment furnished to the date of notice, it is not defective because,
after such date, the person giving notice furnishes materials,
services, labor, or equipment not within the scope of such gen-
eral description.
2790              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      \Gh.   1365

   (h) Where the contract price to be paid to any subcon-
tractor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four
hundred dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, licensed
under Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division
3 of the Business and Professions Code, to give the notice pro-
vided for in this section, constitutes grounds for disciplinary
action by the Eegistrar of Contractors.
   (i) Every city, county, city and county, or other govern-
mental authority issuing building permits shall, in its applica-
tion form for a building permit, provide space and a designa-
tion for the applicant to enter the name, branch designation,
if any, and address of the construction lender and shall keep
the information on file open for public inspection during the
regular business hours of the authority.
   If there is no known construction lender, that fact shall be
noted in such designated space. Any failure to indicate the
name and address of the construction lender on such applica-
tion, however, shall not relieve any person from the obliga-
tion to give to the construction lender the notice required by
this section.
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall become operative only
if Senate Bill No. 316 is enacted and adds Section 3097 to the
Civil Code, and, in such case, shall become operative at the
same time as Senate Bill No. 316 becomes operative, at which
time Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure, as amended
by Section 1 of this act, is repealed.


                        CHAPTBE 1365
An act to amend Sections 21101, 21104, 35701, 35702, 35712,
  and 35714 of the Vehicle Code, relating to local regulation
  of the use of highways.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 21101 of the Vehicle Code is amended
to read:
   21101. Local authorities may adopt rules and regulations
by ordinance or resolution on the following matters:
   (a) Closing any highway to vehicular traffic when in the
opinion of the legislative body having jurisdiction the highway
is no longer needed for vehicular traffic.
   (b) Designating any highway as a through highway and
requiring that all vehicles observe official traffic control
devices before entering or crossing the same or designating
any intersection as a stop intersection and requiring all vehi-
cles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersection,
                     l969
Ch. 13651                   REGULAR SfeSSfON                2791

     (c) Prohibiting the use of particular highways by certain
 vehicles, except as otherwise provided by the Public Utilities
  Commission pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section
  1031) of Chapter 5 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Public
 Utilities Code. No ordinance which is adopted pursuant to this
 subdivision after the effective date of the amendments to this
 section enacted at the 1969 Regular Session shall apply to any
 state highway which is included in the national system of inter-
 state and defense highways, except an ordinance which has
 been approved by the California Highway Commission by a
 four-fifths vote.
     (d) Closing particular streets during regular school hours
 for the purpose of conducting automobile driver training pro-
 grams in the secondary schools and colleges of this state.
     (e) Temporarily closing a portion of any street for celebra-
tions, parades, local special events, and other purposes when
in the opinion of local authorities having jurisdiction such
closing is necessary for the safety and protection of persons
who are to use that portion of the street during the temporary
closing.
    SEC. 2. Section 21104 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
    21104. No ordinance or resolution proposed to be enacted
under Section 21101 or subdivision (d) of Section 21100 is
effective as to any highway not under the exclusive jurisdiction
of the local authority enacting the same, except that an ordi-
nance or resolution which is submitted to the Department of
Public Works by a local legislative body in complete draft
form for approval prior to the enactment thereof is effective
 as to any state highway or part thereof specified in the written
 approval of such department. No such ordinance or resolution
enacted under subdivision (c) of Section 21101 which ap-
plies to any state highway included in the national system of
 interstate and defense highways, shall subsequently be disap-
proved until such disapproval has been concurred in by a four-
fifths vote of the California Highway Commission except that
no such ordinance or resolution enacted prior to January 1,
 1969, under subdivision (c) of Section 21101 which ap-
 plies to any state highway included in the national system of
 interstate and defense highways, shall subsequently be disap-
proved until such disapproval has been concurred in by both
 the local authority and by a four-fifths vote of the California
 Highway Commission.
    SEC. 3. Section 35701 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
    35701. (a) Any city may by ordinance prohibit the use of
a street to be described in the ordinance by any commercial
vehicle or by any vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight
limit to be specified in the ordinance, except with respect to
any vehicle which is subject to the provisions of Sections 1031
to 1036, inclusive, of the Public Utilities Code.
2792               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [QJj. 1365

     (b) The ordinance shall not be effective until appropriate
 signs are erected indicating either the streets affected by the
 ordinance or the streets not affected, as the local authority
 determines will best serve to give notice of the ordinance.
     (c) No ordinance which is adopted pursuant to this section
 after the effective date of the amendments to this section
 enacted at the 1969 Regular Session shall apply to any state
 highway which is included in the national system of interstate
 and defense highways, except an ordinance which has been
 approved by the California Highway Commission by a four-
 fifths vote.
    SEC. 4. Section 35702 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
 read:
    35702. No ordinance proposed under Section 35701 is effec-
 tive with respect to any highway which is not under the ex-
 clusive jurisdiction of the local authority enacting the ordi-
 nance, or, in the case of any state highway, until the ordinance
 has been submitted by the governing body of the local author-
 ity to, and approved in writing by, the Department of Public
 Works. I n submitting a proposed ordinance to the department
 for approval, the governing body of the local authority shall
 designate therein, an alternate route for the use of vehicles,
 which route shall remain unrestricted by any local regulation
 as to weight limits or types of vehicles so long as the ordinance
 proposed shall remain in effect. The approval of the proposed
 ordinance by the Department of Public "Works shall constitute
 an approval by it of the alternate route so designated. No such
 ordinance which applies to any state highway included in the
 national system of interstate and defense highways, shall sub-
 sequently be disapproved until such disapproval has been con-
 curred in by a four-fifths vote of the California Highway
 Commission.
    SEC. 5. Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
    35712. (a) Any county may by ordinance prohibit the use
of any highway located in an unincorporated residential or
subdivision area by any commercial vehicle exceeding a gross
weight of 14,000 pounds.
    (b) Any county of the third class as defined by Section
28024 of the Government Code may, by ordinance, prohibit the
use of any highway located in an unincorporated residential or
subdivision area by any commercial vehicle exceeding a gross
weight of 5,000 pounds.
    (c) No ordinance which is adopted pursuant to this section
after the effective date of the amendments to this section
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature shall
apply to any state highway which is included in the national
system of interstate and defense highways, except an ordinance
which has been approved by the California Highway Commis-
sion by a four-fifths vote.
                    1969
Ch. 1365]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2793

   SEC. 6. Section 35714 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   35714. No ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 35712
shall be effective with respect to:
   (a) Any vehicle which is subject to the provisions of Arti-
cle 2 (commencing at Section 1031) of Chapter 5 of Part 1
of Division 1 of the Public Utilities Code.
   (b) Any highway, any portion of which is also under the
jurisdiction of a city, unless the consent of the governing body
of the city is first obtained.
   (c) Any commercial vehicle coming from an unrestricted
highway having ingress and egress by direct route to and from
the restricted highway when necessary for the purpose of
making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares, and merchandise
from or to any building or structure located on the restricted
highway or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used
in the actual and bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling, or
construction of any building or structure upon the restricted
highway for which a building permit has previously been
obtained.
    (d) The operation of ambulances or hearses.
   (e) Any vehicle owned, operated, controlled, or used by a
public utility in connection with the construction, installation,
operation, maintenance, or repair of any public utility facili-
ties.
   (f) Any state highway, until the proposed ordinance has
been submitted by the board of supervisors of the county to
and approved in writing by the Department of Public Works.
In submitting a proposed ordinance to the department for ap-
proval, the board of supervisors shall designate therein, an
alternate route for the use of the vehicles which shall remain
unrestricted by any local regulation as to commercial vehicles
so long as the ordinance proposed shall remain in effect. The
approval of the proposed ordinance by the Department of
Public Works shall constitute an approval by the department
of the alternate route so designated. No such ordinance which
applies to any state highway included in the national system
of interstate and defense highways, shall subsequently be dis-
approved until such disapproval has been concurred in by a
four-fifths vote of the California Highway Commission.
    (g) Vehicles operated as an incident to any industrial, com-
mercial or agricultural enterprise conducted within the bound-
aries of the unincorporated residential subdivision area.
   SEC. 7. Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
 read:
   35712. (a) Any county may by ordinance prohibit the use
of any highway located in an unincorporated residential or
subdivision area by any commercial vehicle exceeding a gross
weight of 14,000 pounds.
    (b) Any county of the third class as defined by Section
 28024 of the Government Code or of the ninth class as defined
2794                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Qfo \$QQ

by Section 28030 of the Government Code may, by ordinance,
prohibit the use of any highway located in an incorporated
residential or subdivision area by any commercial vehicle ex-
ceeding a gross weight of 5,000 pounds.
   (c) This section does not apply to a vehicle operated by or
on behalf of a public utility in connection with the installa-
tion, operation, maintenance, or repair of its facilities.
   (d.) No ordinance which is adopted pursuant to this section
after the effective date of the amendments to this section en-
acted at the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature shall
apply to any state highway which is included in the national
system of interstate and defense highways, except an ordi-
nance which has been approved by the California Highway
Commission by a four-fifths vote.
   SEC. 8. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this bill
and A.B. 1254 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 35712 in the form set forth
in Section 7 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 1254 is
enacted and amends Section 35712, Section 7 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 35712 as
amended by A.B. 1254 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code as amended by Section 5
of this act is repealed.

                          CHAPTER 1366
       An act to amend Section 15517 of the Education           Code,
                      relating to fire safety.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 15517 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   15517. The governing board of a school district may under-
take corrective measures relating to fire and panic safety rec-
ommended to the governing board pursuant to Section 13143
of the Health and Safety Code by the State Fire Marshal,
including the installation of protective and warning devices
and intrusion alarms, or for any purpose for which the fire
marshal certifies the necessity, in connection with any school
building under the jurisdiction of the governing board with-
out compliance with the procedures otherwise prescribed by
this article.
   The maximum rate of tax of any school district for any
school year is hereby increased by such amount as will pro-
duce the amount necessary to effect the corrective measures
recommended by the State Fire Marshal, as provided in the
preceding paragraph, as shown by the budget of the district
                       1969
Ch. 13671                     REGULAR SESSION                   2795

for such school year, as finally adopted by the governing board
of the district, less any unencumbered balances remaining at
the end of the preceding school year derived from revenue
from the increase in the rate of tax provided by this section.
   The increase provided by this section shall not exceed ten
cents ($0.10) for each one hundred dollars ($100) of the as-
sessed valuation of property within the district in each fiscal
year.
   If at the end of any school year, there remains an unencum-
bered balance derived from the revenue of the increase in tax
rate hereby provided, such balance shall be used exclusively
in the following school year for expenditures of the school
district during that school year required for purposes of this
section.
   This section shall remain in effect until July 1, 1971.


                          CHAPTER 1367
An act granting and conveying free of trust certain lands now
  in the possession and control of the City and County of San
  Francisco, acting through the Harbor Commission of the
  City and County of San Francisco, declaring such lands
  free of the public trust for purposes of navigation, com-
  merce, and fisheries, and declaring such lands free from any
  possibility of reverter upon breach of condition.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. In accordance with Section 18 of the Burton
Act (Chapter 1333 of the Statutes of 1968), this act amends
and modifies in part the transfer of lands in trust to the City
and County of San Francisco provided for in the Burton Act.
   SEC. 2. The state hereby grants and conveys free of the
public trust for purposes of navigation, commerce, and fish-
eries to the City and County of San Francisco, all of its right,
title and interest in and to the lands described as follows, re-
serving to the State of California all oil, gas, oil shale, coal,
phosphate, sodium, gold, silver, and all other mineral deposits
contained in the land conveyed, and further reserving to the
State of California and persons authorized by the state, the
right to drill for and extract such deposits of oil and gas, or
gas, and to prospect for, mine, and remove such deposits of
other minerals from the land conveyed, subject to the pro-
vision that the right to drill for and extract such deposits of
oil and gas, or gas, and to prospect for, mine, and remove such
deposits of other minerals, shall not disturb the surface, or
the ground within 100 feet of the surface, of the real property
conveyed:
2796               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                tQ^ 135^

    (a) Parcel No. 1. Beginning at the point of intersection of
the westerly line of Davis Street and the southerly line of Clay
Street as shown on map entitled "Record of Survey Map of
the Golden Gateway," recorded September 29, 1961, in Book
" T " of Maps, at pages 22, 23 and 24, in the office of the
Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco, State of
California; running thence easterly along said line of Clay
Street 68.75 feet to the easterly line of Davis Street; thence
at a right angle southerly along said line of Davis Street 275
feet to the northerly line of Sacramento Street; thence at a
right angle westerly along said line of Sacramento Street 68.75
feet to the westerly line of Davis Street; thence at a right
angle northerly along said line of Davis Street to the point of
beginning.
    (b) Parcel No. 2. Beginning at the point of intersection of
the westerly line of Davis Street and the southerly line of
Broadway as shown on map entitled "Record of Survey Map
of the Golden Gateway," recorded September 29, 1961, in
Book " T " of Maps, at pages 22, 23 and 24 in the office of the
Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco, State of
 California; running thence easterly along said line of Broad-
way 68.75 feet to the easterly line of Davis Street; thence at
 a right angle southerly along said line of Davis Street 275
 feet to the northerly line of Pacific Avenue; thence at a right
 angle westerly along said line of Pacific Avenue 68.75 feet to
 the westerly line of Davis Street; thence at a right angle
northerly along said line of Davis Street to the point of
 beginning.
    The above-described parcels are portions of Davis Street in
 the City and County of San Francisco, as shown on the map
 referred to in this section.
    SEC. 3. The State Director of Finance shall execute and
 deliver to the City and County of San Francisco, a deed or
 quitclaim deed of all of the right, title and interest of the state
 in and to the property described in Section 2, subject to the
 reservation contained in Section 2 of this act. Such deed or
 quitclaim deed shall be sufficient to convey title of such lands
 to the City and County of San Francisco, free of trust.
    SEC. 4. The Legislature hereby finds and declares that the
 lands described in Section 2 of this act have ceased to be tide
 and submerged lands and are therefore free of the public
 trust for navigation, commerce, and fisheries and such lands
 are conveyed to the City and County of San Francisco by the
 provisions of this act free of any previously existing public
 trust for the purpose of navigation, commerce, and fisheries.
    SEC. 5. The lands described in Section 2 of this act shall
  be sold at a price equal to the fair market value of the state's
  interest in such lands, which shall be determined by agreement
  between an appraiser representing the State Lands Commission
  and an appraiser representing the City and County of San
  Francisco. I n the event the two appraisers are unable to agree,
                        1969
 Ch. 1368]                     REGULAR SESSION                  2797

 they shall agree on a third appraiser who shall determine such
 fair market value. The cost of the appraisals shall be borne by
 the City and County of San Francisco.
    SEC. 6. The lands described in Section 2 of this act shall
 not be subject to reversion to the state by reason of any breach
 by the City and County of San Francisco of any condition
 imposed by any provision of the Burton Act or of any other
 law requiring a reversion to the state upon breach of condition.
    SEC. 7. The City and County of San Francisco is author-
 ized to bring or defend any action to establish its title to the
 lands described in Section 2 of this act. Any suit against the
state or against any agency of the state to establish title in
the City and County of San Francisco is authorized and con-
sent to any such suit is hereby given.
   SEC. 8. Service of summons in any actions or suits with
respect to the sale of lands under Section 6 of this act shall
be made upon the Attorney General and the Attorney General
shall represent the state in any such actions or suits. Cost of
such suits, including reasonable attorneys fees, shall be borne
by the City and County of San Francisco.
   SEC. 9. Any money received by the City and County of
San Francisco from the sale of lands described in Section 2
of this act shall be used by the Harbor Commission of the City
and County of San Francisco to retire bonded indebtedness
incurred for San Francisco Harbor improvements and for
which the state is primarily liable.


                           CHAPTER 1368
An act to amend Sections 7450, 7456, and 7459 of, to amend
  and renumber Sections 7451.1, 11061, 11411, 11411.1, and
  11412 of, to add Sections 7451.1 and 7463 to, to amend the
  heading of Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 11061.) of
  Chapter 2 of Division 9 of, and to repeal the heading of
  Article 4.5 (commencing with Section 11411) of Chapter 3
  of Division 9 of, the Education Code, relating to regional
  occupational centers.
             [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969 Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 7450 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   7450. In enacting this article, it is the intent of the Legis-
lature to provide qualified students with the opportunity to
attend a technical school or enroll in a vocational or technical
training program, regardless of the geographical location of
their residence in a county or region. The Legislature hereby
declares that a regional occupational center will serve the
2798              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Qh. 1368

state and national interests in providing vocational and tech-
nical education to prepare students for an increasingly tech-
nological society in which generalized training and skills are
insufficient to prepare high school students and graduates, and
out-of-school youth and adults for the many employment op-
portunities which require special or technical training and
skills. The Legislature also declares that regional occupational
centers will enable a broader curriculum in technical subjects
to be offered, and will avoid unnecessary duplication of courses
and expensive training equipment, and will provide a flexi-
bility in operation which will facilitate rapid program adjust-
ments and meeting changing training needs as they arise.
   I t is recognized by the Legislature that vocational programs
may achieve great flexibility of planning, scope and operation
by the conduct of such programs in a variety of physical facili-
ties at various training locations.
   It is the further intent of the Legislature that regional oc-
cupational centers and programs provide vocational and
occupational instruction related to the attainment of a specific
skill which will make the trainee technically equipped to be
immediately employable in that skill upon completion of the
training program.
   SEC. 3. Section 7451.1 of the Education Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
   7451.2. A regional occupational center or regional occupa-
tional program shall:
   (a) Provide individual counseling and guidance in voca-
tional matters.
   (b) Provide a curriculum which includes skill training in
occupational fields having current and future needs for such
training.
   (c) Provide an opportunity for students to acquire entry
level vocational skills which may lead to a combination work-
study schedule.
   (d) Provide for the upgrading of the vocational skills of
students and for retraining where necessary.
   (e) Maintain a pupil-teacher ratio which will enable stu-
dents to achieve optimum benefits from the instructional
program.
   SEC. 4. Section 7451.1 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   7451.1. The school district or districts sponsoring the re-
gional occupational center or program shall conduct a job
market survey in those areas in which they propose to establish
a regional occupational center or program. The survey shall
be conducted in cooperation with the local office of the Depart-
ment of Employment, prospective employers, the districts ad-
visory committee on vocational education, and the appropriate
advisory committee for each of the proposed training pro-
grams. The survey shall include an analysis of existing voca-
tional and occupational training programs maintained by high
                     1969
Ch. 1368]                   RBGULAK SESSION                  2799

  schools and community colleges in the area to insure that the
  anticipated employment demand for trainees in the proposed
  regional centers and programs justifies the establishment of
 the proposed courses of instruction.
     SEC. 7. Section 7456 of the Education Code is amended
 to read:
    7456. The county superintendent of schools, with the ap-
 proval of the county board of education, and the governing
 board of each school district, or joint powers governing board,
 which maintains a regional occupational center or regional
 occupational program pursuant to this chapter, shall certify
 to the county auditor and to the county board of supervisors,
 on or before August 10 of each year, the amount of money
 required to be raised by a tax for the education of pupils
 attending the regional occupational center, or regional occu-
 pational program, maintained by the county superintendent
 of schools or by a school district, as the case may be, and for
 the purposes set forth in Section 7453.
    The amount shall be determined by subtracting from the
 total cost of education of such pupils in the regional occupa-
 tional center, or regional occupational program, including
transportation, to the county superintendent of schools or
school district, as the ease may be, (1) the total of any balances
remaining to be expended for this purpose and (2) the total
amount to be apportioned by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction to the county school service fund or to the school
district, as the case may be, for the education of such pupils
and by adding to the result the amount required for the pur-
poses set forth in Section 7453. At the time of levying county
taxes, the board of supervisors shall levy a district tax for
each regional occupational center, or regional occupational
program, maintained in the county by the governing board
of a school district pursuant to this chapter upon the taxable
property of the school district sufficient to produce the amount
required by this section; and the board of supervisors may
levy a county tax for each regional occupational center, or
regional occupational program, maintained in the county by
the county superintendent of schools pursuant to this chapter
sufficient to produce the amount required by this section, upon
the following taxable property within school districts under
the jurisdiction of the county superintendent maintaining the
regional occupational center or regional occupational center
program:
    (a) I n a county in which the governing board of a school
district is not maintaining a regional occupational center or
regional occupational program pursuant to this chapter, upon
all the taxable property within school districts under the juris-
diction of the county superintendent maintaining the regional
occupational center or regional occupational center program.
    (b) In a county in which the governing boards of one or
more school districts are maintaining a regional occupational
2800               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              ^ h . 1368

 center or regional occupational program pursuant to this
 chapter, upon the taxable property within that portion of the
 territory within school districts under the jurisdiction of the
 county superintendent maintaining the regional occupational
 center or regional occupational center program which is not
 included in territory of such school districts.
    The amount received from this tax shall be deposited in
 the county school service fund, or, if the regional occupational
center, or regional occupational program, for which such tax
 was levied is maintained by a school district, in the county
 treasury to the credit of the general fund of that school dis-
trict.
    The maximum rate of the countywide or district tax levied
 for the purposes of this section, except for the purposes set
forth in Section 7453, shall not exceed ten cents ($0.10) on
 each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation within
the county or district, as the ease may be, and the maximum
 rate of the countywide or district tax levied under this section
 for the purposes set forth in Section 7453 shall not exceed five
 cents ($0.05) on each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed
 valuation in the county or district, as the case may be.
    As used in this section, school district includes each of
 those school districts which are cooperating in the maintenance
of a regional occupational center, or regional occupational
program, with the approval of the county superintendent of
schools pursuant to Section 7451.
    SKC. 8. Section 7459 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
    7459. A regional occupational center established and main-
 tained pursuant to a joint powers agreement pursuant to the
provisions of Article 1 (commencing with Section 6500) of
 Chapter 5 of Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code
shall receive in annual operating funds from the participating
school districts an amount per unit of average daily attendance
as follows:
    (a) From each participating school district which is not
eligible for state equalization aid, four hundred seventy-two
dollars ($472).
    (b) From each participating school district which is eligible
for state equalization aid, but not eligible for the increase in
foundation program pursuant to Article 2.1 (commencing with
Section 17671) of Chapter 3 of Division 14, four hundred
seventy-two dollars ($472).
   (c) From each participating school district which is eligible
for state equalization aid and is eligible for the increase in
foundation program pursuant to Article 2.1 (commencing with
Section 17671) of Chapter 3 of Division 14, four hundred
ninety-two dollars ($492).
    (d) From each participating school district which is eligible
for state equalization and is not eligible for the increase in
foundation program pursuant to Article 2.1 (commencing with
                    1969
Gh. 1368]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2801

Section 17671) of Chapter 3 of Division 14, but is eligible for
supplemental support, five hundred twelve dollars ($512).
    (e) From each participating school district which is eligible
for state equalization aid, and is eligible for the increase in
foundation program pursuant to Article 2.1 (commencing with
Section 17671) of Chapter 3 of Division 14, and is eligible for
supplemental support, five hundred thirty-two dollars ($532).
   (f) Any adjustments in the state apportionment allowance
formula for average daily attendance shall automatically be
applied to the above subdivisions.
   SEC. 9. Section 7463 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   7463. The Department of Education shall annually, on or
before the 30th legislative day of the regular session of the
Legislature, submit to the Legislature an evaluation of the
regional occupation centers and programs for the preceding
fiscal year. The evaluation shall include an analysis of the
costs of individual centers and programs, their enrollment de-
fined in terms of high school students, post-high school stu-
dents, and adults, number of graduates, number of trainees
trained for specific entry level occupations as opposed to higher
level entry occupations, dropout rates, and placement data.
   SEC. 10. The heading of Article 3.5 (commencing with
Section 11061) of Chapter 2 of Division 9 of the Education
Code is amended to read:

                Article 3.5.   Opportunity Schools
   SEC. 11. Section 11061 of the Education Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
   7462. The minimum day in a regional occupational center
is 180 minutes and the minimum day in a regional occupational
program is 60 minutes.
   SEC. 12. The heading of Article 4.5 (commencing with
Section 11411) of Chapter 3 of Division 9 of the Education
Code is repealed.
   SEC. 13. Section 11411 of the Education Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
   7460. Units of average daily attendance in the regional
occupational centers or regional occupational programs of a
county for a fiscal year are the quotient arising from dividing
the total number of days of pupil's attendance in such cen-
ters, or programs, during the fiscal year by 175 and the aver-
age daily attendance so computed shall be credited to the
county school service fund if the center, or program, is main-
tained by a county superintendent of schools or if the center,
or program, is maintained by a school district, to the district
maintaining the center or program.
   Attendance in regional occupational centers, or regional
occupational programs, operated under subdivision (a) of Sec-
tion 7451.5 shall be considered pupil's attendance under this
2802               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     TQJ^ \3QQ

section, but attendance in regional occupational centers, or
regional occupational programs, under subdivision (b) of Sec-
tion 7451.5 shall not be so considered.
   As used in this section, "school district" includes each of
those districts which are cooperating in the maintenance of
the center or program, with the approval of the county super-
intendent of schools, pursuant to Section 7451; and units of
average daily attendance of pupils residing in such school
district shall be credited to the school district or county of-
fice of education as may be appropriate.
   SEC. 14. Section 11411.1 of the Education Code is amended
and renumbered to read •.
   7461. Any district or county superintendent who operates
a 60-minute regional occupational program shall be credited
with one-third of a unit of average daily attendance for each
student in a 60-minute regional occupational program and
two-thirds of a unit of average daily attendance in a 120-min-
ute program.
   SEC. 15. Section 11412 of the Education Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
• 10956. Each elementary, high school, and unified school
district shall report to the Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion on forms prepared by the Department of Education in
addition to all other attendance data as required, the active
enrollment as of the last day of the school month. "Active
enrollment" on a day a count is taken means the pupils in
enrollment in the regular schooldays of the district on the first
day of the school year on which the schools were in session,
plus all later enrollees, minus all withdrawals since that day.


                        CHAPTER 1369
An act to amend Section 18709 and Section 19568 as pro-
  posed to be added by Senate Bill No. 840 of the Welfare
  and Institutions Code, relating to blind persons.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 18709 of the "Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   18709. The California Industries for the Blind may con-
tribute eight dollars ($8) per month for each non-civil-service
production worker for health insurance carried by such work-
ers. The contributions shall be made only for health insurance
plans approved by the Board of Control and shall be made
from the California Industries for the Blind Manufacturing
Fund.
                       1969
Ch. 1370]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2803

   SEC. 2. Section 19568 of the "Welfare and Institutions
Code, as proposed to be added by Senate Bill No. 840, is
amended to read:
   19568. The California Industries for the Blind may con-
tribute eight dollars ($8) per month for each non-eivil-service
production worker for health insurance carried by such
workers. The contributions shall be made only for health in-
surance plans approved by the Board of Control and shall
be made from the California Industries for the Blind Manu-
facturing Fund.
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall become operative only
if Section 19568, as proposed to be added to the Welfare and
Institutions Code by Senate Bill No. 840 is enacted by the
Legislature at its 1969 Regular Session, and in such case at the
same time as Senate Bill No. 840 takes effect; at which time
Section 18709 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, as
amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                          C H A P T E E 1370
An act to amend Section 6904 of the Government Code, and to
  amend Section 19629 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
  as proposed to he added by Senate Bill No. 840, relating to
  vending stands for the blind.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 19 69.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 6904 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  6904. The bureau shall:
   (a) Make surveys of opportunities for the operation of
vending stands by blind persons in public buildings.
   (b) Prescribe all necessary rules and regulations for the
operation of the vending stands, and do all things necessary
and proper to carry out the provisions of this chapter, in-
cluding the collection of a service charge based on gross sales,
which service charge shall not exceed 6 percent thereof from
each vending stand operator, and shall be placed in the Special
Deposit Fund to be used for maintenance, repairs, and re-
placement of equipment, for additional equipment, for the con-
struction of new vending stands, snackbars and cafeterias, for
loans to operators for initial stock, and for such other expendi-
tures as are found necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter; provided, that no portion of such service charges
shall be used for administrative salaries. I t is the intent of the
Legislature that the expenditure of such service charges as
are authorized by this section shall be supplemental to and
in augmentation of any current appropriations available for
2804               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1370

 such purposes and shall not constitute an offset or diminution
 of any such appropriations. A sum equal to 4 percent of the
 wages paid by an operator to any blind person, as denned in
 Section 6905, or any disabled person, as defined in regulations
 issued by the department, shall be deducted from any serv-
ice charge paid by the operator, to encourage operators to
 employ more blind and disabled workers and thereby set an
 example for industry and government. There shall be no deduc-
 tion from any service charge paid by an operator if the opera-
 tor does not pay wages at least equal to the minimum wages
 required of employers pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
 with Section 1171) of Part 4 of Division 2 of the Labor Code.
    (c) Select a location for each vending stand constructed or
 installed in any building subject to the approval of the person,
 governing board, or legislative body having the care, custody,
 and control of such building.
    (d) Issue licenses for the operation of vending stands to
 blind persons who are citizens of the United States, 21 years
 of age or over, and who have resided in the state at least one
 year immediately preceding date of application for license.
    The amendments to this section made at the 1969 Regular
 Session of the Legislature apply only to persons hired by an
 operator after July 1, 1969.
    SEC. 2. Section 19629 of the Welfare and Institutions
 Code as proposed to be added by Senate Bill No. 840 is
 amended to read:
    19629. The department shall:
    (a) Make surveys of opportunities for the operation of
vending stands by blind persons in public buildings.
    (b) Prescribe all necessary rules and regulations for the
operation of the vending stands, and do all things necessary
and proper to carry out the provisions of this chapter, in-
cluding the collection of a service charge based on gross sales,
which service charge shall not exceed 6 percent thereof from
each vending stand operator, and shall be placed in the Spe-
cial Deposit Fund to be used for maintenance, repairs, and
replacement of equipment, for additional equipment, for the
construction of new vending stands and food service facili-
ties, for loans to operators for initial stock, and for such other
expenditures as are found necessary to carry out the purposes
of this chapter; provided, that no portion of such service
charges shall be used for administrative salaries. I t is the
intent of the Legislature that the expenditure of such service
charges as are authorized by this section shall be supplemental
to and in augmentation of any current appropriations avail-
able for such purposes and shall not constitute an offset or
diminution of any such appropriations. A sum equal to 4 per-
cent of the wages paid by an operator to any blind person, as
defined in Section 6905, or any disabled person, as defined in
regulations issued by the department, shall be deducted from
any service charge paid by the operator, to encourage operators
Ch. 1371]              1969 REGULAR SESSION                     2805

to employ more blind and disabled workers and thereby set an
example for industry and government.
   There shall be no deduction from any service charge paid
by an operator if the operator does not pay wages at least
equal to the minimum wages required of employers pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1171) of P a r t 4 of
Division 2 of the Labor Code.
   (c) Select a location for each vending stand constructed or
installed in any building subject to the approval of the person,
governing board, or legislative body having the care, custody,
and control of such building.
   (d) Issue licenses for the operation of vending stands to
blind persons who are citizens of the United States and 21
years of age or over.
   The amendments to this section made at the 1969 Regular
Session of the Legislature apply only to persons hired by an
operator after July 1,1969.
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall become operative only
if Section 19629, as proposed to be added to the Welfare and
Institutions Code by Senate Bill No. 840 is enacted by the
Legislature at its 1969 Regular Session, and in such case at
the same time as Senate Bill No. 840 takes effect; at which
time Section 6904 of the Government Code, as amended by
Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                          CHAPTER 1371
       An act to amend Section 13121 of the Education
               Code, relating to teacher's oaths.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.3

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13121 of the Education Code is
amended to read :
   13121. Except as provided in this code, no certification
document shall be granted to any person unless and until he
has subscribed to the following oath or affirmation: "I sol-
emnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States of America, the Constitution of the State
of California, and the laws of the United States and the State
of California, and will promote respect for the flag and respect
for law and order and allegiance to the government of the
United States of America." The oath or affirmation shall be
subscribed before any person authorized to administer oaths
or before any member of the governing board of a school dis-
trict or of any county board of education and filed with the
State Board of Education. Any certificated person who is a
citizen or subject of any country other than the United States,
 2806                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    TQ^   1^2

 and who is employed in any capacity in any of the public
 schools of the state shall, before entering upon the discharge
 of his duties, subscribe to an oath to support the institutions
 and policies of the United States during the period of his so-
 journ within the state. Upon the violation of any of the terms
 of the oath or affirmation, the State Board of Education shall
 suspend or revoke the credential which has been issued.


                         C H A P T E R 1372
 An act to amend Sections 51201, 51240, 51241, 51242, 51243,
   51243.5, 51244, 51245, 51246, 51281, 51285, 51292, 51293
   and 51295 of, to amend and renumber Sections 51203, 51204,
   51249, 51250 and 51252 of, to repeal Sections 51201.1, 51202,
   51222, 51223, 51247, 51248, 51251, 51253, 51255, 51256,
   51282, 51283, 51283.3 and 51286 of, to add Sections 51244.5,
   51249, 51250, 51252, 51253, 51282, 51283 and 51283.3 to, to
   add Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 51230) to Chapter
   7 of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of, and to repeal Article
   4 (commencing with Section 51260) of Chapter 7 of Part 1
   of Division 1 of Title 5 of, the Government Code, relating
   to the California Land Conservation Act of 1965.
           [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

 The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
     SECTION 1. Section 51201 of the Government Code is
  amended to read:
     51201. As used in this chapter, unless otherwise apparent
  from the context:
     (a) "Agricultural commodity" means any and all plant
 and animal products produced in this state for commercial
 purposes.
     (b) "Agricultural u s e " means use of land for the purpose
 of producing an agricultural commodity for commercial pur-
 poses.
     (c) " Prime agricultural l a n d ' ' means:
     (1) All land which qualifies for rating as class I or class I I
 in the Soil Conservation Service land use capability classi-
fications.
    (2) Land which qualifies for rating 80 through 100 in the
Storie Index Rating.
    (3) Land which supports livestock used for the production
of food and fiber and which has an annual carrying capacity
equivalent to at least one animal unit per acre as defined by
the United States Department of Agriculture.
    (4) Land planted with fruit- or nut-bearing trees, vines,
bushes or crops which have a nonbearing period of less than
five years and which will normally return during the commer-
                      1969
Ch. 1372]                    REGULAR SESSION                    2807

cial bearing period on an annual basis from the production
of unprocessed agricultural plant production not less than
two hundred dollars ($200) per acre.
    (5) Land which has returned from the production of un-
processed agricultural plant products an annual gross value
of not less than two hundred dollars ($200) per acre for three
of the previous five years.
   (d) "Agricultural preserve" means an area devoted to
agricultural and compatible uses as designated by a city or
county, and established by resolution of the governing body of
a city or county after a public hearing.
   (e) "Compatible u s e " is any use determined by the county
or city administering the preserve pursuant to Section 51231
or Section 51238 or by this act to be compatible with the agri-
cultural use of land within the preserve and subject to
contract.
   (f) " B o a r d " means the board of supervisors of a county
which establishes or proposes to establish an agricultural pre-
serve or which enters or proposes to enter into a contract on
land within an agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter.
   (g) " C o u n c i l " means the city council of a city which estab-
lishes or proposes to establish an agricultural preserve or
which enters or proposes to enter into a contract on land within
an agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter.
   (h) Except where it is otherwise apparent from the con-
text, " c o u n t y " or " c i t y " means the county or city having
jurisdiction over the land.
   SEC. 2. Section 51201.1 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 51202 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 51203 of the Government Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
   51202. For all purposes of this chapter, county-assessed
values shall be used.
   SEC. 5. Section 51204 of the Government Code is amended
and renumbered to read .-
   51203. The assessed valuations referred to in Section 51283,
upon the request of either of the parties to the contract, will
be subject to equalization pursuant to Section 1604 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.
   SEC. 6. Section 51222 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 51223 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 8. Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 51230) is
added to Chapter 7 of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of the
Government Code, to read:

              Article 2.5. Agricultural Preserves
  51230. Beginning January 1, 1971, any county or city
having a general plan, and until December 31, 1970, any
county or city, by resolution, and after a public hearing may
establish an agricultural preserve. Notice of the hearing shall
2808               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Q^ J372

  be published pursuant to Section 6061 of this code, and shall
  include a legal description, or the assessor's parcel number, of
  the land which is proposed to be included within the preserve.
  Such preserves shall be established for the purpose of denning
  the boundaries of those areas within which the city or county
  will be willing to enter into contracts pursuant to this act. An
  agricultural preserve shall consist of no less than 100 acres;
  provided, that in order to meet this requirement two or more
  parcels may be combined if they are contiguous or if they are
  in common ownership.
     A county or city may establish agricultural preserves of less
 than 100 acres if it finds that smaller preserves are necessary
  due to the unique characteristics of the agricultural enter-
 prises in the area and that the establishment of preserves of
 less than 100 acres is consistent with the general plan of the
 county or city.
    An agricultural preserve may contain land other than agri-
 cultural land, but the use of any land within the preserve and
  not under contract shall within two years of the effective date
 of any contract on land within the preserve be restricted by
 zoning or other suitable means in such a way as not to be
 incompatible with the agricultural use of the land, the use of
 which is limited by contract in accordance with this chapter.
    Failure on the part of the board or council to restrict the
 use of land within a preserve but not subject to contract shall
 not be sufficient reason to cancel or otherwise invalidate a con-
 tract.
    51231. For the purposes of this chapter, the board or coun-
 cil, by resolution, shall adopt rules governing the administra-
 tion of agricultural preserves, including procedures for initi-
 ating, filing, and processing requests to establish agricultural
 preserves. Such rules shall be applied uniformly throughout
 the preserve, shall enumerate those uses which are to be con-
 sidered to be compatible uses, and may require the payment of
 a reasonable application fee. The same procedure that is re-
quired to establish an agricultural preserve shall be used to
 disestablish or to enlarge or diminish the size of an agricultural
preserve.
    51232. In the event any proposal to disestablish or to alter
the boundary of an agricultural preserve will remove land
under contract from such a preserve, notice of the proposed
alteration or disestablishment and the date of the hearing
shall be furnished by the board or council to the owner of the
land by certified mail directed to him at his latest address
known to the board or council. Such notice shall also be fur-
nished by first-class mail to each owner of land in that preserve
which has a common boundary with the land to be removed
from the preserve.
    51233. When a county proposes to establish an agricultural
preserve it shall give written notice at least two weeks before
the hearing to the local agency formation commission and to
                     1969
Ch. 1372]                   REGULAR SESSION                 28O&

every city within one mile of the exterior boundaries of the
preserve.
    51234. Any proposal to establish an agricultural preserve
shall be submitted to the planning department of the county or
city having jurisdiction over the land. If the county or city
has no planning department, a proposal to establish an agri-
cultural preserve shall be submitted to the planning commis-
sion. Within 30 days after receiving such a proposal, the plan-
ning department or planning commission shall submit a report
thereon to the board or council; provided, however, that the
board or council may extend the time allowed for an additional
period not to exceed 30 days.
   The report shall include a statement that the preserve is
consistent, or inconsistent, with the general plan, and the board
or council shall make a finding to such effect. Final action
upon the establishment of an agricultural preserve may not be
taken by the board or council until the report required by this
section is received from the planning department or planning
commission, or until the required 30 days have elapsed and
any extension thereof granted by the board or council has
elapsed.
   51235. An agricultural preserve shall continue in full effect
following annexation, incorporation or disincorporation of land
within the preserve.
   Any city or county acquiring jurisdiction over land in a
preserve by annexation, incorporation or disincorporation shall
have ail the rights and responsibilities specified in this act for
cities or counties including the right to enlarge, diminish or
disestablish an agricultural preserve within its jurisdiction.
   51236. The effect of removal of land under contract from
an agricultural preserve shall be the equivalent of notice of
nonrenewal by the city or county removing the land from the
agricultural preserve and such city or county shall, at least 60
days prior to the next renewal date following the removal,
serve a notice of nonrenewal as provided in Section 51245.
Such notice of nonrenewal shall be recorded as provided in
Section 51248.
   51237. Whenever an agricultural preserve is established,
and so long as it shall be in effect, a map of such agricultural
preserve and the resolution under which the preserve was
established shall be filed and kept current by the city or county
with the county recorder and the Director of Agriculture.
   51238. Notwithstanding any determination of compatible
uses by the county or city pursuant to this article, unless the
board or council after notice and hearing makes a finding to
the contrary, the erection, construction, alteration, or mainte-
nance of gas, electric, water, or communication utility facili-
ties are hereby determined to be compatible uses within any
agricultural preserve. No land occupied by gas, electric, water,
or communication utility facilities shall be excluded from an
agricultural preserve by reason of such use.
2810               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1372

    51239. The board or council may appoint an advisory
 board, the members of which shall serve at the pleasure of
 the board or council and may be paid their expenses. They
 shall advise the board or council on the administration of the
 agricultural preserves in the county or city and on any matters
 relating to contracts entered into pursuant to this chapter.
    SEC. 9. Section 51240 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    51240. Any city or county may by contract limit the use
 of agricultural land for the purpose of preserving such land
 pursuant and subject to the conditions set forth in the contract
 and in this chapter. A contract may provide for restrictions,
 terms, and conditions, including payments and fees, more re-
 strictive than or in addition to those required by this chapter.
    SEC. 10. Section 51241 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    51241. If such a contract is made with any landowner, the
 city or county shall offer such a contract under similar terms to
 every other owner of agricultural land within the agricultural
preserve in question.
    However, except as required by other provisions of this
 chapter, the provisions of this section shall not be construed
as requiring that all contracts affecting land within a preserve
be identical, so long as such differences as exist are related to
 differences in location and characteristics of the land and are
pursuant to uniform rules adopted by the county or city.
    SEC. 11. Section 51242 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    51242. No city or county may contract with respect to any
land pursuant to this chapter unless the land:
    (a) Is devoted to agricultural use.
    (b) Is located within an area designated by a city or county
as an agricultural preserve.
    SEC. 12. Section 51243 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   51243. Every such contract shall:
    (a) Provide for the exclusion of uses other than agricultural,
and other than those compatible with agricultural uses, for
the duration of the contract.
    (b) Shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, all
successors in interest of the owner. "Whenever land under a con-
tract is divided, the owner of any parcel may exercise, inde-
pendent of any other owner of a portion of the divided land,
any of the rights of the owner in the original contract, includ-
ing the right to give notice of nonrenewal and to petition for
cancellation. The effect of any such action by the owner of a
parcel created by the division of land under contract shall not
be imputed to the owners of the remaining parcels and shall
have no effect on the contract as it applies to the remaining
parcels of the divided land. On the annexation by a city of any
land under contract with a county, the city shall succeed to all
                    1969
Ch. 1372]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2811

rights, duties and powers of the county under such contract,
 unless the land being annexed was within one mile of such city
at the time that the contract was initially executed, the city
protested the execution of the contract pursuant to Section
51243.5, and the city states its intent not to succeed in its
resolution of intention to annex. If the city does not exercise
its option to succeed, the contract becomes null and void as to
the land actually being annexed on the date of annexation. In
the event that only part of the land under contract was within
one mile of the city the option of the city shall extend only
to such part.
   SEC. 12.5. Section 51243.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   51243.5. The clerk of the board of supervisors shall give
written notice to any city within the county of its intention
to consider a contract which includes land within one mile
of the exterior boundaries of that city. Such notice shall be
given at least 30 days prior to the time the board of super-
visors intends to consider the execution of such a contract.
If such city files with the county a resolution protesting the
execution of a contract which includes land within one mile
of the exterior boundaries of the city, and the board of super-
visors executes such a contract, the city shall have the option
provided for in subdivision (b) of Section 51243 of not suc-
ceeding to the contract upon annexation of the land to the city.
    SEC. 13. Section 51244 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   51244. Each contract shall be for an initial term of no less
than 10 years. Each contract shall provide that on the anni-
versary date of the contract or such other annual date as spec-
ified by the contract a year shall be added automatically to
the initial term unless notice of nonrenewal is given as pro-
vided in Section 51245.
    SEC. 14. Section 51244.5 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   51244.5. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 51244,
if the initial term of the contract is for 20 years or more the
contract may provide that on the anniversary date of the eon-
tract or such other annual date as specified by the contract
beginning with the anniversary date on which the contract
will have an unexpired term of nine years, a year shall be
added automatically to the initial term unless notice of non-
renewal is given as provided in Section 51245.
    SEC. 15. Section 51245 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    51245. If either the landowner or the city or county desires
in any year not to renew the contract, that party shall serve
written notice of nonrenewal of the contract upon the other
party in advance of the annual renewal date of the contract.
Unless such written notice is served by the landowner at least
90 days prior to the renewal date or by the city or county at
2812               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1372

  least 60 days prior to the renewal date, the contract shall be
 considered renewed as provided in Section 51244 or Section
  51244.5.
     Upon receipt by the owner of a notice from the county or
 city of nonrenewal, the owner may make a written protest of
 the notice of nonrenewal. The county or city may, at any time
 prior to the renewal date, withdraw the notice of nonrenewal.
 Upon request by the owner, the board or council may authorize
 the owner to serve a notice of nonrenewal on a portion of the
 land under a contract.
     SEC. 16. Section 51246 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
     51246. If the county or city or the landowner serves notice
 of intent in any year not to renew the contract, the existing
 contract shall remain in effect for the balance of the period
 remaining since the original execution or the last renewal of
 the contract, as the case may be.
    SEC. 17. Section 51247 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 18. Section 51248 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 19. Section 51249 of the Government Code is amended
 and renumbered to read:
     51247. The landowner shall furnish the city or county with
 such information as the city or county shall require in order
 to enable it to determine the eligibility of the land involved.
    SEC. 20. Section 51250 of the Government Code is amended
 and renumbered to read:
    51248. No later than 20 days after a city or county enters
 into a contract with a landowner pursuant to this chapter,
 the clerk of the board or council, as the case may be, shall
 record with the county recorder a copy of the contract, which
 shall describe the land subject thereto, together with a refer-
 ence to the map showing the location of the agricultural pre-
 serve in which the property lies. From and after the time of
 such recordation such contract shall impart such notice thereof
to all persons as is afforded by the recording laws of this state.
    SEC. 21. Section 51249 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    51249. Within 30 days after approval by the board or
council, the clerk of such board or council shall file with the
Director of Agriculture a sample copy of any approved form
of contract.
    SEC. 22. Section 51250 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    51250. On or before the first day of September of each year,
the county assessor shall report to the Director of Agriculture
and to the State Board of Equalization the following informa-
tion with respect to each school district or portion of a district
within the county or city in which there is land under contract
pursuant to this chapter:
                    1969
Ch. 1372]                  REGULAK SESSION                  2813

   (a) The number of acres of land under contract during
the preceding fiscal year.
   (b) The number of acres under contract during the current
fiscal year for the first time.
   (c) The total acres of land under contract.
   SEC. 23. Section 51251 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 24. Section 51252 of the Government Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
   51251. The county or city may bring any action in court
necessary to enforce any contract including, but not limited
to, an action to enforce the contract by specific performance
or injunction.
   SEC. 25. Section 51252 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   51252. Any contract entered into pursuant to this chapter
shall be an enforceable restriction within the meaning and for
the purposes of Article X X V I I I of the State Constitution and
shall be enforced and administered by the city or county in
such a manner as to accomplish the purposes of that article and
of this chapter.
   SEC. 26. Section 51253 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 27. Section 51253 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   51253. Any contract or agreement entered into pursuant to
this chapter prior to the 61st day following final adjournment
of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature may be
amended to conform with the provisions of this act as amended
at such session upon the mutual agreement of all parties. Ap-
proval of such an amendment to a contract by the Director
of Agriculture or the State Board of Agriculture shall not
be required.
   SEC. 28. Section 51255 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 29. Section 51256 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 30. Article 4 (commencing with Section 51260) of
Chapter 7 of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of the Govern-
ment Code is repealed.
   SEC. 31. Section 51281 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   51281. A contract may not be canceled except pursuant to
a request by the landowner, and as provided in this article.
   SEC. 32. Section 51282 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 33. Section 51282 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   51282. The landowner may petition the board or council
for cancellation of any contract as to all or any part of the
subject land. The board or council may approve the cancella-
tion of a contract only if they find:
   (a) That the cancellation is not inconsistent with the pur-
poses of this chapter," and
 2814               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQ^ l3f%

      (b) That cancellation is in the public interest.
     The existence of an opportunity for another use of the land
  involved shall not be sufficient reason for the cancellation of a
  contract. A potential alternative use of the land may be con-
  sidered only if there is no proximate, noncontracted land suit-
  able for the use to which it is proposed the contracted land
  be put.
     The uneconomic character of an existing agricultural use
  shall likewise not be sufficient reason for cancellation of the
  contract. The uneconomic character of the existing use may be
  considered only if there is no other reasonable or comparable
  agricultural use to which the land may be put.
     SEC. 34. Section 51283 of the Government Code is repealed.
     S E C 35. Section 51283 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
     51283. (a) Prior to any action by the board or council
 giving tentative approval to the cancellation of any contract,
 the county assessor of the county in which the land is located
 shall determine the full cash value of the land as though it
  were free of the contractual restriction. The assessor shall mul-
 tiply such value by the most recent county ratio announced
 pursuant to Section 401 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code,
 and shall certify the product to the board or council as the
 cancellation valuation of the land for the purpose of deter-
 mining the cancellation fee.
     (b) Prior to giving tentative approval to the cancellation
 of any contract the board or council shall determine and cer-
 tify to the county auditor the amount of the cancellation fee
 which the landowner must pay the county treasurer as de-
 ferred taxes upon cancellation. That fee shall be an amount
 equal to 50 percent of the cancellation valuation of the prop-
 erty; provided, however, if after the date the contract was
 initially entered into the publicly announced county ratio
 of assessed to full cash value is changed, the percentage
 payment in this subdivision shall be changed so no greater
 percentage of full cash value will be paid than would have
been paid had there been no change in ratio.
     (c) If they find that it is in the public interest to do so the
board or council may waive any such payment or any portion
thereof, or may make such payment or a portion thereof con-
tingent upon the future use made of the land and its economic
return to the landowner for a period of time not to exceed the
unexpired period of the contract, had it not been canceled, pro-
vided :
    (1) The cancellation is caused by an involuntary transfer
or change in the use which may be made of the land and the
land is not immediately suitable, nor will be immediately used,
for a purpose which produces a greater economic return to the
owner; and
    (2) The board or council has determined it is in the best
interests of the program to conserve agricultural land use that
such payment be either deferred or not required.
                    1969
Ch. 1372]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2815

    (d) When the deferred taxes required by this section are
collected, the county treasurer shall distribute the taxes to each
taxing agency existing in the fiscal year of collection in the
tax code areas in which the parcels of the property are located.
The amount of taxes on all parcels in the same tax code area
shall be determined. The taxes for each tax code area shall be
distributed in the same proportion that each taxing agency's
tax rate in the fiscal year of collection bears to the total tax
rate of the code area in the fiscal year of collection.
   SEC. 36. Section 51283.3 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 37. Section 51283.3 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   51283.3. (a) Upon tentative approval of the cancellation
petition the clerk of the board or council shall record in the
office of the county recorder of the county in which the land
as to which the contract is canceled is located a certificate
which shall set forth the name of the owner of such land at
the time the contract was canceled with the amount of the can-
cellation fee certified by the board or council as being due pur-
suant to this article, the contingency of any waiver or defer-
ment of payments, and a legal description of the property.
From the date of recording of such certificate the contract
shall be finally canceled and, to the extent the cancellation fee
has not yet been paid, a lien shall be created and attach
against the real property described therein and any other real
property owned by the person named therein as the owner
and located within the county. Such lien shall have the force,
effect and priority of a judgment lien. Nothing in this section
or Section 51283 shall preclude the board or council from
requiring payment in full of the cancellation fee prior to the
cancellation becoming effective.
    (b) In no case shall the cancellation of a contract be final
until the notice of cancellation is actually recorded as pro-
vided in this section. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, any payments required by
 Section 51283 shall not create nor impose a lien or charge
on the land as to which a contract is canceled except as herein
provided.
    (c) Upon the payment of the cancellation fee or any por-
 tion thereof the clerk of the board or council shall record with
 the county recorder a written certificate of the release in whole
 or in part of the lien.
    SEC. 38. Section 51285 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    51285. The owner of any property located in the county or
 city in which the agricultural preserve is situated may protest
 such cancellation to the city or county conducting the hearing.
    SEC. 39. Section 51286 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.

    89—1964
2816               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQ} 1# 1 3 7 2

     SEC. 40. Section 51292 of the Government Code is amended
  to read:
     51292. (a) No public agency or person shall locate a
  public improvement within an agricultural preserve based pri-
  marily on a consideration of the lower cost of acquiring land
  in an agricultural preserve.
      (b) No public agency or person shall acquire prime agricul-
  tural land covered under a contract pursuant to this chapter
 for any public improvement if there is other land within or
 outside the preserve on which it is reasonably feasible to
 locate the public improvement.
     SEC. 41. Section 51293 of the Government Code is amended
  to read:
     51293. Section 51292 shall not apply t o :
     (a) The location or construction of improvements where
 the board or council administering the agricultural preserve
 approves or agrees to the location thereof.
     (b) The acquisition of easements within a preserve by the
 board or council administering the preserve.
     (c) The location or construction of any public utility im-
 provement which has been approved by the Public Utilities
 Commission.
     (d) The location or construction of the following types of
 improvements, which are hereby determined to be compatible
 with or to enhance land within an agricultural preserve:
     (1) Flood control works, including channel rectification and
 alteration.
     (2) Public works required for fish and wildlife enhancement
 and preservation.
     (3) Improvements for the primary benefit of the lands
 within the preserve.
     (e) Improvements for which the site or route has been speci-
 fied by the Legislature in such a manner as to make it impos-
 sible to avoid the acquisition of land under contract.
    (f) All state highways on routes as described in Sections
 301 to 622, inclusive, of the Streets and Highways Code, as
 said sections read on October 1, 1965.
    (g) All facilities which are part of the State Water Facil-
 ities as described in subdivision (d) of Section 12934 of the
Water Code, except facilities under paragraph (6) of said sub-
division (d).
    (h) Land upon which condemnation proceedings have been
commenced prior to October 1, 1965.
    SEC. 42. Section 51295 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    51295. When any action in eminent domain for the con-
demnation of the fee title of an entire parcel of land subject
to a contract is filed or when such land is acquired in lieu of
eminent domain for a public improvement by a public agency
or person or whenever there is any such action or acquisition
by the federal government or any person, instrumentality or
                       1969
Ch. 1373]                     REGULAR SESSION                   2817

agency acting under authority or power of the federal gov-
ernment, such contract shall be deemed null and void as to the
land actually being condemned or so acquired as of the date
the action is filed and for the purposes of establishing the value
of such land, the contract shall be deemed never to have ex-
isted.
   Upon the termination of such a proceeding, the contract
shall be null and void for all land actually taken or acquired.
   When such an action to condemn or acquire less than all of
a parcel of land subject to a contract is commenced, the con-
tract shall be deemed null and void as to the land actually
condemned or acquired and shall be disregarded in the valua-
tion process only as to the land actually being taken, unless
the remaining land subject to contract will be adversely af-
fected by the condemnation, in which case the value of that
damage shall be computed without regard to the contract.
   The land actually taken shall be removed from the contract.
Under no circumstances shall land be removed that is not
actually taken, except as otherwise provided in this chapter..
   SEC. 43. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
the act which can be given effect without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.
   SEC. 44. The provisions of this act shall be given prospec-
tive application only and shall not be construed in a manner
which would impair the obligation of any existing contract
or agreement entered into pursuant to the California Land
Conservation Act of 1965, prior to the effective date of this
act. However, this section is not intended to prevent the provi-
sions of this act from being incorporated by reference into
existing contracts or agreements, if such existing contracts or
agreements provide for incorporation by reference of amend-
ments subsequently enacted by the Legislature; provided
further, however, that this act shall not, by incorporation by
reference or otherwise, invalidate any restrictions, terms, or
conditions, including payments and fees, more restrictive than
or in addition to those required by this chapter.


                          CHAPTER 1373
     An act to amend Section S575 of the Education Code,
         relating to graduation academic standards.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]
2818                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      r Q n -[374

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION    1.   Section 8575 of the Education Code is amended
to read:

   8575. The State Board of Education shall, on or before
July 1, 1970, prepare, and distribute to each school district
maintaining a high school for its consideration, model mini-
mum academic standards for graduation as required by Sec-
tion 8574 of this code.

                           C H A P T E E 1374
    An act to add Section 22123 to the Water Code, relating
                     to irrigation districts.
           [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

T-he people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 22123 is added to the Water Code, to
read:
  22123. Any district providing electric power to areas out-
side its boundaries shall be subject to reasonable rules, regula-
tions, and orders of the governing body of the city or county
area being served, but, in no event, more restrictive than the
rules, regulations, and orders of the Public Utilities Commis-
sion upon utilities providing electric power to cities or coun-
ties. No district may impose rates, rules, regulations, or
orders in any such area outside its boundaries which are dif-
ferent from rates, rules, regulations, or orders imposed within
the district, except with the consent of the governing body of
the affected area.

                          CHAPTER 1375
An act to amend Section 1 of Chapter 497 of the Statutes of
  1959, relating to tide and submerged lands granted in trust
  to the County of Marin.
           [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 1 of Chapter 497 of the Statutes of
1959 is amended to read:
  Section 1. There is hereby granted to the County of Marin,
and to its successors, all of the right, title, and interest of the
State of California, held by said state by virtue of its sover-
eignty in and to all of the tide and submerged lands, filled or
unfilled, bounded and described as follows:
                    1969
Ch. 1375]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2819

                             Parcel A
   All that land within the unincorporated area of the County
of Marin, lying within Richardson Bay as shown upon the
Board of Tide Land Commissioners' " M a p No. 1 of the Salt
Marsh and Tide Lands Situate in the County of Marin, State
of California" dated 1870, on file in the office of the State
Lands Commission at Sacramento, designated as Saucelito Ba-
sin and those areas designated as Brickyard, Oyster, Salt
Works, Eosedale and Coyote Canals and that portion of Sau-
celito Canal lying southeasterly from Courses Nos. 160 and 161
of "Meanders at Ordinary High T i d e " as tabulated on Table I
of said Map No. 1, and those areas designated as Monterey,
Sonoma, Waldo, Myrtle, Yuba, Grove, Eureka, Pescadero, Ma-
drona, Manzanita, Teutonia, Oro, Fresno, Shasta, Yolo, Parepa,
Pohono, Esmeralda, Tulare, Owyhee, Coyote and Canal Streets,
and all the street areas normal to the aforementioned streets at
present known and referred to as Tomales, Bolinas, Petaluma,
Humboldt, Donahue and Railroad Avenues, including Railroad
Avenue lying between Coyote Canal and Rosedale Canal and
each of the undesignated areas lying between Railroad Avenue
and Blocks 169, 195 and 232.

                             Parcel B
  All that land lying within Gallinas Canal (including the
north and south forks thereof) as shown on the Board of Tide
Land Commissioners' " M a p No. 3 of Salt Marsh and Tide
Lands Situate in the County of Marin, State of California"
dated 1871 on file in the office of the State Lands Commission
at Sacramento, lying westerly from a line drawn between the
southeasterly end of Course No. 1 and the northeasterly end
of Course No. 87 as said courses are tabulated on said Map
No. 3 in the Table entitled "Meanders of Gallinas Canal".

                             Parcel C
   All that land within Richardson Bay and within the City of
Belvedere designated upon the Board of Tide Land Commis-
sioners' "Map No. 1 of Salt Marsh and Tide Lands Situate in
the County of Marin, State of California" dated 1870, on file
in the office of the State Lands Commission at Sacramento, as
Middle and East Canals and that portion of Saucelito Basin
more particularly described as follows:
   Beginning at the most westerly corner of Lot 382 as shown
upon said Map No. 1, thence running southeasterly along the
southwesterly lines of Lots 382, 388, 389 and 390 to the be-
ginning of Course No. 328 of the '' Meanders at Ordinary High
Tide'' as tabulated in Table I of said Map No. 1; thence con-
tinuing southeasterly along the "Meanders at Ordinary High
T i d e " to the southeasterly end of Course No. 342; then west-
erly to the northeasterly end of Course No. 47 of the "Mean-
2820               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Q^ ^375

ders of the Line of Nine F t . Depth at the Lowest T i d e " as
tabulated in Table I I I of said Map No. 1; then southwesterly
along said Course No. 47 to a point on the southwesterly limits
of the City of Belvedere; then northwesterly along said limits
of the City of Belvedere to the point of beginning.
   To be forever held by said county, and its successors, in trust
for the uses and purposes and upon the express conditions fol-
lowing, to wit:
    (a) That said lands shall be used by said county, and its
successors, for purposes in which there is a general statewide
interest as follows:
    (1) For the establishment, improvement and conduct of a
harbor, and for the construction, reconstruction, repair, main-
tenance, and operation of wharves, docks, piers, slips, quays,
and all other works, buildings, facilities, utilities, structures
and appliances incidental, necessary or convenient for the pro-
motion and accommodation of commerce and navigation.
    (2) For the establishment, improvement and conduct of an
airport and heliport or aviation facilities, including but not
limited to approach, takeoff and clear zones in connection with
airport runways, and for the construction, reconstruction, re-
pair, maintenance and operation of terminal buildings, run-
ways, roadways, aprons, taxiways, parking areas, and all other
works, building, facilities, utilities, structures and appliances
incidental, necessary or convenient for the promotion and
accommodation of air commerce and air navigation.
    (3) For the construction, reconstruction, repair and main-
tenance of highways, streets, roadways, bridges, belt line rail-
roads, parking facilities, power, telephone, telegraph or cable
lines or landings, water and gas pipelines, and all other
transportation and utility facilities or betterments incidental,
necessary or convenient for the promotion and accommodation
of any of the uses set forth in this Section 1.
   (4) For the construction, reconstruction, repair, mainte-
nance and operation of public buildings, public assembly and
meeting places, convention centers, parks, playgrounds, bath-
houses and bathing facilities, recreation and fishing piers,
public recreation facilities, including but not limited to public
golf courses, and for all works, buildings, facilities, utilities,
structures and appliances incidental, necessary or convenient
for the promotion and accommodation of any such uses.
   (5) For the establishment, improvement and conduct of
small boat harbors, marinas, aquatic playgrounds and similar
recreational facilities, and for the construction, reconstruction,
repair, maintenance and operation of all works, buildings, fa-
cilities, utilities, structures and appliances incidental, neces-
sary or convenient for the promotion and accommodation of
any of such uses, including but not limited to snackbars, cafes,
restaurants, motels, hotels, launching ramps and hoists, storage
sheds, boat repair facilities with cranes and marine ways,
administration buildings, public restrooms, bait and tackle
                    1969
Ch. 1375]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2821

shops, chandleries, boat sales establishments, service stations
and fuel docks, yacht club buildings, parking areas, roadways,
pedestrian ways and landscaped areas.
   (6) For the establishment, preservation, restoration, im-
provement, or maintenance of intertidal and subtidal marine
biological reserves, restoration and maintenance of shellfish
and related fishery resources, development of nature study
trails and areas, exhibits, research projects, preservation of
areas of unique marine phenomena for water sports, and the
natural beauty and biological resources and activities related
thereto, subject to the prior approval of the Fish and Game
Commission as to those matters which are subject to regulation
by the commission pursuant to the Fish and Game Code.
   (b) Said county, or its successors shall not, at any time,
grant, convey, give or alienate said lands, or any part thereof,
to any individual, firm or corporation for any purposes what-
ever; provided, that said city, or its successors, may grant
franchises thereon for limited periods, not exceeding 55
years, for wharves and other public uses and purposes, and
may lease said lands, or any part thereof, for limited periods,
not exceeding 55 years, for purposes consistent with the
trusts upon which said lands are held by the State of Cali-
fornia, and with the requirements of commerce and naviga-
tion, and collect and retain rents and other revenues from such
leases, franchises and privileges. Such lease or leases, fran-
chises and privileges may be for any and all purposes which
shall not interfere with commerce and navigation.
   Nothing contained in this paragraph (b) shall be deemed to
affect the validity or term of any franchise granted by said
county under the Broughton Act, and any such franchise shall
be effective with respect to said lands when title thereto passes
to said county hereunder.
   (c) Said lands shall be improved without expense to the
state; provided, however, that nothing contained in this act
shall preclude expenditures for the development of said lands
for any public purpose not inconsistent with commerce, naviga-
tion and fisheries, by the state, or any board, agency or com-
mission thereof, when authorized or approved by the county,
nor by the county of any funds received for such purpose from
the state or any board, agency or commission thereof.
   (d) In the management, conduct, operation and control of
said lands or any improvements, betterments, or structures
thereon, the county or its successors shall make no discrimina-
tion in rates, tolls or charges for any use or service in con-
nection therewith.
   (e) The State of California shall have the right to use with-
out charge any transportation, landing or storage improve-
ments, betterments or structures constructed upon said lands
for any vessel or other watercraft or railroad owned or oper-
ated by the State of California.
   (f) There is hereby reserved to the people of the State of
California the absolute right to fish in the waters of said lands
2822               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   rQJj J 3 7 g

with the right of convenient access to said waters over said
lands for said purposes.
   (g) There is hereby excepted and reserved to the State of
California all deposits of minerals, including oil and gas, in
said land, and to the State of California, or persons authorized
by the State of California, the right to prospect for, mine, and
remove such deposits from said land.
   (h) The lands herein described are granted subject to the
express reservation and condition that the state may at any
time in the future use said lands or any portion thereof for
highway purposes without compensation to the county, its suc-
cessors or assigns, or any person, firm or public or private cor-
poration claiming under it, except that in the event improve-
ments, betterments or structures have been placed upon the
property taken by the state for said purposes, compensation
shall be made to the person entitled thereto for the value of his
interest in the improvements, betterments or structures taken
or the damages to such interest.
   (i) That within 10 years from the effective date of the
amendment to this act enacted at the 1969 Eegular Session of
the Legislature said lands shall be substantially improved, re-
stored, preserved, or maintained by said county without ex-
pense to the state, and if the State Lands Commission deter-
mines that the county has failed to improve, restore, preserve,
or maintain said lands as herein required, all right, title, and
 interest of said county in and to all lands granted by this act
shall cease and all right, title, and interest in said lands shall
revert and rest in the state. All restoration, preservation, or
maintenance shall be effected in accordance with a plan there-
for, approved by the State Lands Commission.


                      CHAPTEB 1376
An act to amend Section 22825 of the Government Code, relat-
  ing to the Meyers-Oeddes State Employee's Medical and
  Hospital Care Act.
          [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 22825 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   22825. The employer and each employee or annuitant shall
contribute a portion of the cost of providing for each em-
ployee and annuitant the benefit coverage afforded under any
health benefit plan which the board has approved or for which
it has executed a contract pursuant to this part, and in which
the employee or annuitant may be enrolled.
                       1969
Ch. 1377]                     REGULAR SESSION                     2823

   The employer's contribution shall be the amount necessary
to pay the cost of the health benefits plan, or plans, including
the cost of enrollment of all family members, or eight dollars
 ($8) per month for each employee or annuitant, whichever is
the lesser; provided, however, that there shall be only one such
contribution with respect to all annuitants receiving allow-
ances as survivors of the same employee or annuitant. The em-
ployer's contribution to the health benefits plan or plans to
each employee shall commence on the first day of the calendar
month next following the completion of six months of em-
ployment by the employer; provided the employment has not
been interrupted by a break of more than one month, except
that absence for military service shall not be considered a
break.
   The contribution of each employee and annuitant shall be
the total cost per month of the benefit coverage afforded him
under the plan or plans less the portion thereof to be con-
tributed by the employer.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative on the first day of
the month following the month in which statutes enacted at
the 1969 Regular Session are effective.


                           CHAPTER 1377

An act to amend Section 11008.7 of the Welfare and Institu-
  tions Code, relating to public assistance and declaring the
  urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 11008.7 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
  11008.7. Neither funds distributed pursuant to U.S. Public
Law 90-507 (82 Stat. 860) nor property derived therefrom
shall be considered in determining the eligibility of or the
amount payable to any person under federal, state, or local
laws, plans, rules, or regulations relating to welfare services
or payments of any type of public assistance to needy persons,
including, but not limited to, aid to families with dependent
children, aid to the blind, aid to the aged, aid to the potentially
self-supporting blind, aid to the needy disabled or medical
assistance recipients.
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
2824                STATUSES OF CALIFORNIA                      fQh. 1378

   In order to take advantage of programs and benefits made
available by the federal government in Public Law 90-507, it
is essential that this act go into immediate effect.


                         CHAPTER 1378
   An act to add Section 27178 of the Streets and Highways
               Code, relating to state highways.
          [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 27178 is added to the Streets and High-
ways Code, to read:
   27178. Within the district, the Department of Public
Works may restrict any portion of a state highway to a partic-
ular mode of vehicular transportation during such hours as the
department, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic in-
vestigation, determines such restriction would expedite the
flow of traffic.

                         CHAPTER 1379
An act to add Chapter 5.75 (commencing with Section 5766)
  to Division 6 of the Education Code, relating to bilingual
  instruction for non-English-speaking students.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. This act is necessary because of the pressing
need for special bilingual instruction for non-English-speaking
students in many parts of the state. As a result of the increased
influx of immigrant students into the State of California, the
public schools now are responsible for hundreds of students
who are unable to do the regular classroom work because they
cannot communicate in the English language.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 5.75 (commencing with Section 5766) is
added to Division 6 of the Education Code, to read:

            CHAPTER 5.75. BILINGUAL EDUCATION
                 DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM

   5766. The State Department of Education, in cooperation
with selected local school districts, shall develop and imple-
ment in a county or city and county selected by it a demon-
stration program to meet the pressing and unique educational
needs of non-English-speaking students in the public schools.
                        1969
Ch. 1380]                      REGULAR SESSION                    2825

The demonstration program shall be designed specifically to
promote the following purposes:
   (a) Recruitment of sufficient numbers of bilingual teachers
to instruct non-English-speaking students in their native lan-
guage as well as teaching them the English language.
   (b) Identification of the causes of unrest which specifically
relate to education among non-English-speaking students and
propose and implement solutions to this problem.
   (c) Provision for supportive personnel and educational
services necessary to the success of the program.
   (d) Provision for sufficient and adequate facilities and
equipment required by the program.
   5766.1. The demonstration program shall be administered
by the county superintendent of schools of the selected demon-
stration county, or by the city superintendent of schools in
the case of a city and county, in cooperation with the local
school districts and other concerned governmental organiza-
tions.
   5766.2. The department shall annually provide for the
evaluation of programs adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   5766.3. State funds appropriated to implement the demon-
stration program may be allocated by the department to the
demonstration county or city and county for the construction,
operation, staffing, and maintenance of bilingual education
programs. Such services and facilities may be developed alone
or in conjunction with other facilities operated by local school
districts.
   5766.4. This chapter shall remain in effect until July 1,
1972, and shall have no force nor effect after that date.
   SEC. 3. It is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this
act to encourage bilingual instruction in order to develop a
greater proficiency in English in accordance with the general
policy specified in Section 71 of the Education Code.


                           CHAPTER 1380
An act to add Article 14 (commencing with, Section 429.30)
  to Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Health and
  Safety Code, relating to health services, and making an ap-
  propriation therefor.
            [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 14 (commencing with Section 429.30)
is added to Chapter 2 of P a r t 1 of Division 1 of the Health
and Safety Code, to read;
2g26                  STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Ch. 1381

                  Article 14.   Indian Health Service
  429.30. The State Department of Public Health shall main-
tain a program for Indians and their families, consisting of:
   (a) Studies of the health and health services for Indians
and their families throughout the state.
   (b) Technical and financial assistance to local agencies con-
cerned with the health of Indians and their families.
   (c) Coordination with similar programs of the federal gov-
ernment, other states, and voluntary agencies.
   429.31. The department may contract and cooperate with
local governmental agencies and voluntary nonprofit organi-
zations in connection with the development of local health
programs for Indians and their families.
   SEC. 2. The sum of thirty-two thousand one hundred
seventeen dollars ($32,117) is hereby appropriated from the
General F u n d to the State Department of Public Health for
expenditure by the department during the 1969-1970 fiscal
year pursuant to the provisions of Article 14 (commencing
with Section 429.30) of Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1 of
the Health and Safety Code, as enacted by Section 1 of this act.


                           CHAPTEE 1381
    An act to add Section 21382.5 to the Government Code,
      relating to Public Employees' Retirement   System.
           [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 21382.5 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   21382.5. For the purposes of Section 21382, a person shall
be considered to be under the age of 18 if he is under the age
of 22 and a full-time student.


                          CHAPTER 1382
An act to amend Section 14376 and Section 14226 as proposed
  by Assembly Bill No. 1728 of the Education Code, relating
  to State Teachers' Retirement Law.
           [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION    1.    Section 14376 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1382]                  REGULAR SESSION                  £827

   14376. Any person who retired for service may be em-
 ployed as a substitute in a position requiring certification
qualifications, and may be paid not to exceed four thousand
dollars ($4,000) in any one fiscal year, or pursuant to Section
25558 or 25804, as a substitute in a position requiring certifi-
cation qualifications at the California School for the Deaf or
the California School for the Blind, and may be paid not to
exceed four thousand dollars ($4,000) in any one fiscal year.
Any person who retired for service may be employed as a
teacher who provides remedial instruction, or as a home
teacher, or as a teacher in a program of either adult or con-
tinuing education in a position requiring certification qualifi-
cations, or as a hospital teacher, or as a curriculum writer or
consultant in a field in which he is specially qualified, or as a
teacher in a rest home for the aged, or in a community center
and may not be paid to exceed two thousand five hundred dol-
lars ($2,500). Such employment shall not operate to reinstate
the person as a member of this system, or to terminate or sus-
pend his retirement allowance, and no deduction shall be made
from his salary as contributions to this system. Such person
may be reemployed only if able to pass a physical examination
prescribed by the State Board of Education.
   A certificate from a physician or surgeon licensed under
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2000) of Division 2 of
the Business and Professions Code showing that he has sub-
mitted to and passed a physical examination within one year
last past and filed with the county superintendent of schools,
or in the case of a person to be employed as a substitute in a
position requiring certification qualifications at the California
School for the Deaf or the California School for the Blind, filed
with the State Department of Education, shall be conclusive
evidence of his passing the physical examination required by
this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 14226, as proposed by Assembly Bill No.
1728, of the Education Code is amended to read:
   14226. Any retirant who retired for service may be em-
ployed as a substitute in a position requiring certification
qualifications, and may be paid not to exceed four thousand
dollars ($4,000) in any one fiscal year, or pursuant to Section
25558 or 25804, as a substitute in a position requiring certifi-
cation qualifications at the California School for the Deaf or
the California School for the Blind, and may be paid not to
exceed four thousand dollars ($4,000) in any one fiscal year.
Any retirant who retired for service may be employed as a
teacher who provides remedial instruction, or as a home
teacher, or as a teacher in a program of either adult or con-
tinuing education in a position requiring certification quali-
fications, or as a hospital teacher, or as a curriculum writer
or consultant in a field in which he is specially qualified, or
as a teacher in a rest home for the aged, or in a community
center and may not be paid to exceed two thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($2,500).
2828               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. 1383

   Such employment does not operate to reinstate the retirant
as a member of this system, or to terminate or suspend his
retirement allowance, and no deduction shall be made from
bis salary as contributions to this system. Such person may
be reemployed only if able to pass a physical examination pre-
scribed by the Board of Education.
   A certificate from a physician or surgeon licensed under
Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 2000) of Division 2 of
the Business and Professions Code showing that he has sub-
mitted to and passed a physical examination within the im-
mediately preceding 12-month period and filed with the county
superintendent, or, in the case of a person to be employed as
a substitute in a position requiring certification qualifications
at the California School for the Deaf or the California School
for the Blind, filed with the State Department of Education,
shall be conclusive evidence of his passing the physical exam-
ination required by this section.
  SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall become operative only if
Section 14226 of the Education Code as proposed by Assembly
Bill No. 1728 is enacted by the Legislature at its 1969 Regular
Session, and in such case at the same time as Assembly Bill
No. 1728 takes effect; at which time Section 14376 of the Edu-
cation Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                        CHAPTER 1383
       An act to add Section 3566.3 to the Elections Code,
                relating to analysis of measures.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3566.3 is added to the Elections Code,
to read:
   3566.3. "Whenever any measure qualifies for a place on the
ballot the Secretary of State shall transmit a copy of the
measure to the Legislative Analyst. The Legislative Analyst
shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure if, in his
opinion, it involves additional cost. If the measure is one
which would require a substantial increase in state costs the
analysis shall contain an estimate of the cost of the measure
and shall specify the method of financing it. The analysis shall
be printed in the ballot pamphlet alongside the Legislative
Counsel's detailed analysis and shall not exceed 500 words.
  SEC. 2. This act shall become inoperative upon the enact-
ment of Assembly Bill No. 1283.
Ch. 1384]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                      2829

                        CHAPTER 1384
An act to amend Sections 8150.5, 8152, 8154, 8155, 8156 and
  8780 of, and to repeal Sections 8150, 8151, 8157 and 8158 of,
  the Fish and Game Code, relating to the taking of sardines
  and other ocean fish.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 8150 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
    SEC. 2. Section 8150.5 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read:
    8150.5. Under permits issued by the department, sardines
may be taken for bait purposes in the amount of two hundred
fifty (250) tons annually provided that no boat, barge or
vessel may possess more than three (3) tons during any one
calendar day. The department will keep records of the catch
and when it appears that the 250-ton limit will be reached,
shall notify all permit holders of the date when such limit
will be reached and shall notify, by certified mail, all per-
mittees of such closure.
    After the closure, sardines may not be taken or possessed
on any boat, barge, or vessel except loads or lots of fish may
contain 15 percent or less by weight of sardines taken inci-
dentally to other fishing operations and which are mixed with
the other fish in the load or lot.
    Sardines so incidentally taken may be possessed and used
for canning, preserving, and reduction only.
    This section does not prohibit the possession and use of sar-
dines imported into this state under a bill of lading identify-
ing the country of origin.
    SEC. 3. Section 8151 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
    SEC. 4. Section 8152 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read:
    8152. Sardines incidentally taken pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 8150.5 may be used for the purpose of salting,
curing, smoking or drying, or for the purpose of packing in
cans commonly known as quarter-pound or square cans less
 than 10 ounces in net weight. In such 10-ounce cans, fish of a
 size not less than eight to the can shall be used.
    SEC. 5. Section 8154 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read:
    8154. Any person engaged in canning sardines incidentally
taken pursuant to the provisions of Section 8150.5 may take
and use in a reduction plant 3 2 | percent of the amount of
sardines actually received at his canning plant during each
calendar month.
2830              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfr   ^334

   SEC. 6. Section 8155 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read:
   8155. In determining the percentage of sardines inciden-
tally taken pursuant to the provisions of Section 8150.5 that
may be used for reduction purposes by a cannery, it shall be
deemed that a ton of sardines suitable in size and condition
for canning will produce 960 one-pound oval cans of sardines,
or the equivalent if other size cans are used.
   SEC. 7. Section 8156 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read:
   8156. Sardines incidentally taken pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 8150.5, preserved by the common methods
of drying, salting, smoking, or pickling, or fish delivered mixed
with sardines, as are unfit for drying, salting, smoking, or
pickling, which are not intentionally taken into the plant in a
condition unfit for processing for human consumption may
be used in a reduction plant or by a reduction process.
   SEC. 8. Section 8157 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 8158 of the Fish and Game Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 10. Section 8780 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read:
   8780. As used in this chapter, the term "bait n e t " means
a lampara or round haul type net the mesh of which is con-
structed of twine not exceeding Standard No. 9 medium cotton
seine twine or synthetic twine of equivalent size or strength.
The net shall not have rings along the lead line or any method
of pursing the bottom of the net.
   Bait nets may be used to take fish for bait in Districts 6, 7,
8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 19A, 19B, 20A, 21, 118
and 118.5.
   In District 19B bait nets may be used only to take sardines,
anchovies, queenfish, white croakers, and smelt for bait only.
Such nets may not be used within 750 feet of Seal Beach Pier,
Belmont Pier, or Rainbow Pier.
   In District 19A bait nets may be used to take sardines,
smelt, anchovies, queenfish and white croaker except that sar-
dines taken for canning purposes may be taken only during
the season specified in Section 8151. No other species of fish
may be taken or possessed on any boat carrying a bait net in
District 19A.
   Nothing in this section prohibits the use of bait nets in Dis-
tricts 19A and 19B for taking fish for use as fishfood in state
fish hatcheries.
   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, bait
nets shall not be used to take sardines in violation of the pro-
visions of Section 8150.5.
   SEC. 11. The Department of Fish and Game shall pre-
pare a comprehensive master inventory and preliminary master
plan for utilization of all ocean fish resources from existing
Ch. 1385]               1969 REGULAR SESSION                         2831

scientific information which shall include, but not limited to,
the biology, history, statistics, and economics of the fisheries,
for the purpose of providing future programs for the man-
agement and proper use of all ocean fish resources including
the development of programs for the harvesting of latent
stocks of fish and coordinating the efforts of state, federal, and
academic institutions to more effectively resolve problems in-
volving these resources. The department shall complete and
submit to the Legislature such master inventory and pre-
liminary master plan not later than the fifth legislative day of
the 1971 Regular Session.
   In preparing such inventory and plan, as a first phase, the
department shall prepare a comprehensive inventory from all
available studies of the pelagic wet fish and related species re-
sources, including, but not limited to, the species of anchovy,
hake, jack mackerel, Pacific mackerel, sardines, saury, and
squid. The department shall report its conclusions based on
such studies as to the management and utilization of the re-
sources with particular emphasis upon the interrelationship of
competing uses and the inventory shall include an enumera-
tion of the latent resources available. The department shall
present such first phase inventory to the Legislature not later
than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Eegular Session.


                           CHAPTER 1385
   An act to amend Section 26155 of the Government                Code,
               relating to county contributions.
            [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 26155 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   26155. The board of supervisors may authorize and provide
for contributions to nonprofit educational radio and television
stations, provided all of the following conditions exist:
      (1) The purpose of the contribution is to enable the citi-
   zens of the county to enjoy greater educational and cultural
   advantages.
      (2) A substantial number of the residents of the county
   live within the reception area of the station.
      (3) The station regularly broadcasts programs which have
   educational or cultural significance.
      (4) The contribution is to the general funds of the station
   and not for or in connection with any particular program.
      (5) The contribution is not accompanied, directly or in-
   directly, by any direction of, sponsorship of, control of, or
   restriction of any program or the content of any program.
2832                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. 1386

This section does not in any way restrict the power of the
board of supervisors to provide for expenditures for other
authorized purposes including, but not limited to, the purposes
specified in Sections 26100, 26103, 26106, 26152, or 26153.


                          CHAPTBE 1386
An act to add Section 14124 to the Welfare and              Institutions
             Code, relating to medical assistance.
          [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 14124 is added to the Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:
   14124. Notice of any suspension under Section 14123, along
with any information obtained as a result of the director's in-
vestigation shall be sent by the director to the appropriate state
licensing, certifying or registering authority. The director may
in any event provide information obtained as a result of its
investigation to such appropriate state agency at any time.
   Nothing contained in this section shall limit the state licens-
ing, certifying or registering authority's power to conduct at
any time independent investigations and proceedings concern-
ing the revocation or suspension of any person's license, cer-
tificate or registration. No action taken by the state licensing,
certifying, or registering authority shall have any effect upon
a suspension under Section 14123.
   The word "suspension" as used in this section shall mean
a final suspension after all administrative and judicial reme-
dies are exhausted.

                          CHAPTER 1387
       An act to add Sections 146 and 147 to the Labor Code,
              relating to the Industrial Safety Board.
          [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 146 is added to the Labor Code, to
read:
   146. The Industrial Safety Board shall meet on the first
Tuesday of the last month of each calendar quarter. The meet-
ings shall be rotated throughout the state at locations desig-
nated by the chairman. All meetings held by the board shall
be open and public. Notice of board meetings shall be pub-
lished in Sacramento, San Francisco, Fresno, Los Angeles and
                      1969
Ch. 1388]                    REGULAR SESSION                    2833

San Diego in papers of general circulation not more than 30
days and not less than 10 working days prior to each such
meeting. Written notice of all such meetings shall be given to
all persons who request such notice in writing directed to the
Director, Department of Industrial Relations.
   SEC. 2. Section 147 is added to the Labor Code, to read:
   147. At each of its quarterly meetings, the board shall
make time available to interested persons to propose new or
revised orders appropriate for adoption pursuant to Chapter
3 (commencing with Section 6500) of P a r t 1 of Division 5.
The board shall consider issuing such proposed orders by no
later than its next quarterly meeting.


                         CHAPTER 1388

An act to amend Section 13599.2 of the Education Code, relat-
  ing to special education programs, and declaring the urgency
  thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 13599.2 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
    13599.2. Instructional aides shall not be utilized to increase
the number of pupils in relation to the number of classroom
teachers in any school, any school district, or in the state.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, class size ratios
existing in special education classes prior to November 13,
1968, may be maintained or decreased, but not increased, by
use of instructional aides.
   All instructional aide positions in a school district shall be
assigned the basic title of "instructional a i d e " or other appro-
priate title designated by the governing board. To provide for
differences in responsibilities and duties, additions to the basic
title may be assigned such as "instructional aide I or I I " or
"instructional aide—volunteer," or other appropriate title.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   Statutes enacted in 1968, by rendering inoperative certain
State Board of Education class size regulations, have adversely
affected the conduct of special education programs. In order
that these special education programs can continue to be con-
ducted in accordance with established practices and procedures,
it is essential that this act take effect immediately.
2834               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   T Q ^ JJJ89

                         CHAPTER 1389

       An act to amend Section 3507.5 of the Government
        Code, relating to public employee organizations.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 3507.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   3507.5. In addition to those rules and regulations a public
agency may adopt pursuant to and in the same manner as in
Section 3507, any such agency may adopt reasonable rules
and regulations providing for designation of the management
and confidential employees of the public agency and restrict-
ing such employees from representing any employee organiza-
tion, which represents other employees of the public agency,
on matters within the scope of representation. Except as
specifically provided otherwise in this chapter, this section does
not otherwise limit the right of employees to be members of
and to hold office in an employee organization.


                         CHAPTER 1390
An act to amend Section 393 of the Military and                 Veterans
            Code, relating to military personnel.
          [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 393 of the Military and Veterans Code
is amended to read:
   393. When an action or proceeding of any nature is com-
menced in any court against an active member of the militia
or a member of the militia in active service in pursuance of
an order of the President of the United States as a result of
a state emergency for an act done by such member in his
official capacity in the discharge of duty, or an alleged omis-
sion by him to do an act which it was his duty to perform,
or against any person acting under the authority or order of
an officer, or by virtue of a warrant issued by him pursuant
to law, the defendant may require the person instituting or
prosecuting the action or proceeding to file security in an
amount of not less than one hundred dollars ($100), to be
fixed by the court, for the payment of costs that may be
awarded to the defendant therein. The defendant in all cases
may make a general denial and give special matter in evidence.
A defendant in whose favor a final judgment is rendered in
                     1969
Ch. 1391]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2835

any such action or proceeding shall recover treble costs. The
Attorney General shall defend such active member or person
where the action or proceeding is civil. The senior judge ad-
vocate on the state staff or one of the judge advocates shall
defend such active member or person where the action or pro-
ceeding is criminal, and the Adjutant General shall designate
the senior judge advocate on the state staff, or one of the
judge advocates, to defend such active member or person.
  In the event such active member or person is not indemnified
by the federal government, Section 825 of the Government
Code shall apply to such active member or person.


                        CHAPTER 1391
An act to add Section 11479.5 to the Education Code, relating
  to school attendance, and declaring the urgency thereof, to
  take effect immediately.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 11479.5 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   11479.5. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
average daily attendance of pupils enrolled in summer schools
shall be credited to the junior college district in the fiscal year
in which the last day of the summer school falls.
   SEC. 2. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
average daily attendance in school districts in which the cer-
tificated personnel were paid for Monday, July 21, 1969, shall
be deemed to be the actual attendance taken on July 22, 1969.
Further, notwithstanding any other provision of law, that day
shall, at the election of the governing board of the district, for
purposes of any requirements prescribed by or pursuant to
law concerning the content of any course of instruction or
the time to be devoted to instruction therein during the sum-
mer session, be deemed to have been a day upon which instruc-
tion in any such course was regularly given at the schools
of the district and a day u.pon which each pupil was in at-
tendance upon any such course in which he was regularly
enrolled.
    SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity a r e :
    In order to permit the accurate computation of school at-
tendance for summer schools conducted during 1969 during
the time that such schools are in session, it is necessary that
this act take effect immediately.
2836               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQ^ 1 3 9 2

                         CHAPTEE 1392
       An act to amend Sections 16859 and 16860 of the
          Education Code, relating to schoolbuses.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. I t is the intention of the Legislature that the
governing board of a school district or the county superintend-
ent of schools may use schoolbuses or may contract for their
use to provide transportation for any activities deemed by the
governing board or the county superintendent to be education
related.
   SEC. 2. Section 16859 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   16859. The governing board of any school district may use
schoolbuses, or may contract with other school districts or with
the county superintendent of schools, to provide transporta-
tion in connection with school-related activities. The trans-
portation may be provided for school district employees, one
adult person related to each such employee as may be desig-
nated by the governing board, and volunteer adults who are
officially assisting in the supervision of pupils.
   SEC. 3. Section 16860 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   16860. The county superintendent of schools of any county
may use schoolbuses under his jurisdiction, or may contract
with school districts within his county, to provide transporta-
tion in connection with school-related activities. The transpor-
tation may be provided for county school employees, one adult
person related to each such employee as may be designated
by the county superintendent, and volunteer adults who are
officially assisting in the supervision of pupils.


                        CHAPTER 1393
An act to add Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 25970)
  to Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to
  dogs.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 13 (commencing with Section 25970)
is added to Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:
                     1969
Ch. 1393]                   REGULAR SESSION                   2837

                       CHAPTER 13.     DOGS

         Article 1. Definitions and General Provisions
    25970. This chapter may be cited as " T h e Dog Act of
 1969."
   25971. For the purposes of this chapter, " s e n t r y d o g "
means a dog trained to work without supervision in a fenced
facility and to deter or detain unauthorized persons found
within the facility.
   25972. For the purposes of this chapter, "narcotic detec-
tion dog" means a dog trained to locate narcotics by scent.
   25973. For the purposes of this chapter, "tracker or at-
tack d o g " means a dog trained to work with a handler in
searching out facilities for burglary suspects and other in-
truders.
   25974. For the purposes of this chapter, "sentry dog com-
p a n y " means any person who agrees to furnish trained sentry,
attack, or narcotic detection dogs for hire.
   25975. For the purposes of this chapter "dog handler"
means any person trained in the handling of dogs which
training includes the care, feeding, and maintenance of dogs,
and the procedures necessary to control the behavior of a dog
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   25976. For the purposes of this chapter " h i r e " shall in-
clude, but not be limited to, the renting or leasing of the
services of a dog with or without a dog handler, or the sale of
a dog with an option to repurchase.

                 Article 2. Dog Registration
   25980. Bach sentry dog company shall register each dog
subject to this chapter which it handles with the local law
enforcement agency and with the state, city, county, or district
fire department which has the responsibility for the prevention
and suppression of fires in the area in which the sentry dog
company is located.
   25981. Bach sentry dog company which handles a dog
subject to this chapter shall notify such appropriate local
law enforcement agency and such appropriate fire department
by mail not more than 15 days before a dog is sent on an
assignment of the location and duration of such assignment.
The local law enforcement agency and fire department shall
maintain a file of such assignments.

                   Article 3.    Requirements
   25984. Each dog subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall, at all times, wear an identification tag. The identification
tag shall be provided by the sentry dog company furnishing
such dog for hire. Such identification tag shall contain, but not
be limited to, the following information:
   (a) The name of the dog;
2838               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Qh. 13Q4

   (b) The name, address, and telephone number of the sentry
dog company furnishing the dog for hire. Any telephone
number so provided shall be to a telephone which is manned
by a person 24 hours per day every day of the year so that
calls of the public may be received and answered.
   The identification tag required by this section shall be in
addition to any tag required or issued by any agency of gov-
ernment to show that a dog has been immunized or inoculated
against disease.
   25984.1. Whenever a dog subject to this chapter is being
transported anywhere, it shall be well secured in a humane
manner as will reasonably prevent its possible escape.
   25984.2. Each dog subject to this chapter shall, wherever
and whenever the dog is kept when on actual duty, be visited
by a dog handler at least once every 12 hours to insure that the
dog's physical condition, its surroundings, and its food and
water supply are adequate, and if inadequate, the dog handler
shall do whatever may be necessary to correct or remedy the
situation. Such dog handler shall be either the owner of, or be
employed by or under contract to, the sentry dog company
which placed the dog on assignment.

                     Article 4.    Violations
  25987. Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be punishable by a fine of one hundred dollars ($100).


                        CHAPTER 1394
An act to amend Sections 19124, 19132.3, and 19150 of the
  Health and Safety Code, relating to earthquake protection
  of buildings.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 19124 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
   19124. The Division of Building and Housing Standards of
the Department of Housing and Community Development may
enforce any provision of this chapter which it finds is being
violated in a building hereafter constructed, after it has given
the enforcement agency written notice of the violation and
the enforcement agency has failed to secure correction of the
violation within the following 10 days. In such cases where
the division processes applications for building permits the
fees prescribed in this chapter shall be payable to the division.
   SEC. 2. Section 19132.3 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
                        1969
Ch. 13951                      REGULAR SESSION                    2839

   19132.3. The governing body of any city or county may
adopt an ordinance prescribing fees for filing applications as
will pay the expenses of the enforcement agency incurred in
issuing permits pursuant to this chapter. Where the Depart-
ment of Housing and Community Development is the en-
forcement agency, the Commission of Housing and Community
Development may establish a schedule of fees to pay the cost
of administration and enforcement of this chapter. All rules
and regulations promulgated by the commission under the
authority of this part shall be promulgated pursuant to Chap-
ter 4.5 (commencing with Section 11371) of Part 1 of Di-
vision 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 3. Section 19150 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   19150. Every building or structure and every portion
thereof shall be designed and constructed to resist stresses
produced by lateral forces as provided in Article 23 (com-
mencing with Section 723.01), P a r t VI, Title 24, California
Administrative Code. Stresses shall be calculated as the effect
of a force applied horizontally at each floor or roof level above
the foundation. The force shall be assumed to come from any
horizontal direction. In areas where the Division of Building
and Housing Standards of the Department of Housing and
Community Development is the enforcement agency, plumbing
and electrical equipment and installations shall be subject to
the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to Sections 17921
and 17922 of this code.

                           CHAPTER 1395
       An act to amend Section 13456 of the Education
              Code, relating to leaves of absence.
            [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13456 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   13456. The governing board of any school district shall
provide for such leave of absence from duty as it deems appro-
priate for any female employee of the district who is em-
ployed in a position requiring certification qualifications and
who is required to absent herself from her duties because of
pregnancy or convalescence following childbirth, and shall
adopt reasonable rules and regulations prescribing the manner
of proof of pregnancy, the point during the course of the preg-
nancy at which leave of absence shall be taken, and the length
of time for which the leave of absence shall continue after
birth of the child. Anything in Sections 13467 and 13469
to the contrary notwithstanding, the board may also provide in
2840                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQ n 139g

the rules and regulations whether leave granted under this
section shall be with or without pay and, if with pay, the
amount, if any, to be deducted from the salary due the em-
ployee for the period in which the absence occurs.
  Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to deprive
any employee of sick leave rights under other sections of this
code for absences due to illness or injury resulting from preg-
nancy.
   The leave provided for in this section is in addition to any
other leave provided for by law.
   This section shall not be construed as requiring the govern-
ing board of a school district to grant leave under this section
only with pay.

                           CHAPTER 1396
        An act relating to the California Districts      Securities
                             Commission.
           [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
the powers, duties and responsibilities heretofore exercised by
the California Districts Securities Commission pursuant to
any provision of law shall be assumed and exercised by the
State Treasurer upon the date the Governor's Reorganization
Plan No. 1 of 1969 becomes operative. Upon that date the
California Districts Securities Commission is abolished, and
the staff of the commission and all files, records, and equip-
ment appurtenant thereto shall be transferred to the office of
the State Treasurer. The State Treasurer may, in his discre-
tion, create a board to assist him in carrying out these powers,
duties and responsibilities.


                           C H A P T E R 1397
       An act to amend Section 16803 of the Education            Code,
                  relating to school transportation.
           [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 16803 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   16803. (a) Continuing contracts for the furnishing of
transportation of pupils in school districts to and from school,
if made, shall be made for a term not to exceed five years.
                          1969
 Ch. 13991                       REGULAR SESSION                   2841

 Such contracts shall be renewable at the option of the school
district and the party contracting to provide transportation
services, jointly, at the end of each term of the contract at a
rate not more than 5 percent above the rate currently set
pursuant to the existing contract. The contract as renewed
shall include, other than the rates of the previous contract, all
of the terms and conditions of the previous contract, including
any provisions increasing rates based on increased costs.
   (b) Continuing contracts may be made for the lease or
rental of schoolbuses, not to exceed five years, except that if
such a lease or rental contract provides that the district may
exercise an option either to purchase the buses or to cancel the
lease at the end of each annual period during the period of the
contract, such contract may be made for a term not to exceed
10 years.

                             CHAPTER 1398
         An act to add Section 24010 to the Government
                    Code, relating to coroners.
             [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 24010 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
  24010. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
board of supervisors may by ordinance abolish the office of
coroner and provide instead for the office of medical examiner,
to be appointed by the said board and to exercise the powers
and perform the duties of the coroner. The medical examiner
shall be a licensed physician and surgeon duly qualified as a
specialist in pathology.

                            CHAPTER 1399
An act to amend Sections 408 and 1622.5 of, and to add Sec-
  tion 1624.3 to, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to
  property taxation.
             [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                    Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 408 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   408. (a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivisions (b)
and (c) any information and records in the assessor's office
which are not required by law to be kept or prepared by the
2842              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQfr. 1 3 9 9

assessor are not public documents and shall not be open to
public inspection.
   (b) The assessor shall provide any market data in his pos-
session to an assessee of property or his designated representa-
tive upon request and shall permit an assessee of property or
his designated representative to inspect at the assessor's office
any information and records, whether or not required to be
kept or prepared by the assessor, relating to the appraisal and
the assessment of his property, except information and rec-
ords which also relate to the property or business affairs of
a person other than the assessee unless ordered to do so by a
competent court in a proceeding initiated by a taxpayer seek-
ing to challenge the legality of his assessment.
    (c) The assessor shall disclose information, furnish abstracts
or permit access to all records in his office to law enforcement
agencies, the county grand jury, the board of supervisors or
their duly authorized agents, employees or representatives
when conducting an investigation of the assessor's office pur-
suant to Section 25303 of the Government Code, the State
Board of Equalization and other duly authorized legislative
 or administrative bodies of the state pursuant to their authori-
zation to examine such records.
    (d) For purposes of this section, "market d a t a " means any
information in the assessor's possession, whether or not re-
quired to be prepared or kept by him, relating to the sale of
any property comparable to the property of the assessee, if
the assessor bases his assessment of the assessee's property,
in whole or in part, on such comparable sale or sales. The
assessor shall provide the names of the seller and buyer of
each property on which the comparison is based, the location
of such property, the date of the sale, and the consideration
paid for the property, whether paid in money or otherwise,
but for purposes of providing such market data, the assessor
shall not display any document relating to the business affairs
or property of another.
    SEC. 2. Section 1622.5 of the Kevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   1622.5. In any county in which two or more boards have
been created and are functioning:
    (a) The clerk of the assessment appeals boards may assign
 one or more members from one board to serve temporarily as
 members of another board, and
    (b) The board of supervisors may appoint alternate mem-
 bers for each board. "Whenever any regular member of a board
 is temporarily unable to act as a member of the board, an
 alternate member may sit on the board and shall have the
same authority to act as a regular member. "Where such alter-
 nate member is likewise temporarily unable to act the clerk
 may assign an alternate member of the same board or of any
 other board to act as a member of the board and such alter-
 nate member may sit on the board and shall have the same
 authority to act as a regular member.
                     1969
Ch. 1400]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2843

   In any county in which one board has been created and is
functioning the board of supervisors may appoint alternate
members for the board. Whenever any regular member of the
board is temporarily unable to act as a member of the board,
an alternate member may sit on the board and shall have the
same authority to act as a regular member.
   SEC. 3. Section 1624.3 is added to the Eevenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   1624.3. The party affected by an equalization proceeding
or his agent, or the assessor, may make and file with the clerk
of the assessment appeals board in which the proceeding is
pending a peremptory challenge in writing of one member of
the board. Thereupon, without any further act or proof, the
clerk shall assign a member to replace the member so chal-
lenged.
   In those counties in which at least 20 days' notice is given
of an equalization proceeding, a peremptory challenge pur-
suant to this section shall be made at least 5 days prior to the
date of such proceeding. In all other counties, a peremp-
tory challenge may be made at any time prior to the equaliza-
tion proceeding.
   SEC. 4. The provisions of this act shall apply to equaliza-
tion proceedings for the 1970-1971 assessment and assessment
years thereafter.

                        C H A P T E E 1400
An act to add Section 24 to the Burton Act (Chapter 1333
  of the Statutes of 1968), relating to the Haroor of San
  Francisco, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect
  immediately.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 24 is added to the Burton Act (Chapter
1333 of the Statutes of 1968), to read:
   Sec. 24. No amendment, modification, or revocation, in
whole or in part, of the transfer of lands in trust provided
for in this act, whether made pursuant to Sections 9, 18, 19 or
22, or otherwise, shall impair or affect the rights or obliga-
tions of third parties, including the holders of revenue bonds
or securities issued by the Harbor Commission of San Fran-
cisco and payable out of revenues of the harbor, lessees, lend-
ers for value, holders of contracts conferring the right to the
use and occupation of, or the right to conduct operations upon
or within, such lands, arising from leases, contracts, or other
instruments lawfully entered into prior to the effective date
of such amendment, modification, or revocation.
2844               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch.   1401

     In the event, at the effective date of any such amendment,
 modification, or revocation, there are in effect any such leases,
 contracts, or other instruments the state may, at its option
 exercised by, and evidenced by appropriate action on the part
 of, the State Lands Commission, succeed to the interest in
 any such instrument of the City and County of San Fran-
 cisco; otherwise the interest of the City and County of San
 Francisco in any such instrument then in effect shall continue
during the term or other period of time during which such
instrument shall remain in effect; and provided further, that
in any event all revenue bonds or securities issued by the
 Harbor Commission of San Francisco and payable out of rev-
enues of the harbor shall continue to be so payable and se-
cured in all respects as provided in the proceedings for their
issuance and the revenues of the harbor shall be pledged to
and applied to the payment of such revenue bonds or securi-
ties in all respects as though no such amendment, modification,
or revocation had taken place.
    SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
    I t is necessary that revenue bonds be sold at the earliest
possible time to provide needed funds for the Harbor of San
Francisco. The provisions of this act are necessary to protect
the interests of the bondholders, and in order to insure that
this act will be in effect soon enough to be applicable to the
next issue of bonds, it is necessary that the act go into im-
mediate effect.

                        CHAPTER 1401
An act to amend Sections 13189, 13190, 13191.1, and 13192
  of the Education Code, relating to teachers' credentials.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13189 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   13189. The minimum requirements for the standard teach-
ing credential with a specialization in elementary teaching
shall be all requirements specified in (a), (b), either (c) or
(d), and ( e ) :
   (a) Five years (with the fifth year to be completed within
seven years of the first employment of the certificated em-
ployee in elementary teaching), or its equivalent of university
or college education.
   (b) A baccalaureate degree or higher degree from an insti-
tution approved by the State Board of Education.
                     1969
Ch. 1401]                   BEGULAR SESSION                    2845

    (c) One of the following:
    (1) A major in an academic subject matter area commonly-
taught in the public elementary schools. The State Board of
Education may define a diversified major in academic subject
areas commonly taught in the public elementary schools to
fulfill this requirement.
    (2) A major and a minor, each of which is in a subject
matter area commonly taught in the public elementary
schools, and one of which is in an academic subject matter
area. Specialized preparation may be substituted for the minor
when the major is in an academic subject matter area.
    (3) Two minors in subject matter areas commonly taught
in the public elementary schools and a major, other than
education and educational methodology, not commonly taught
therein. If the major is not in an academic subject matter
area, each minor shall be in an academic subject matter area.
If the major is in an academic subject matter area, one of the
minors shall be in an academic subject matter area. Specialized
preparation may be substituted for one of the minors.
   The State Board of Education shall adopt regulations de-
fining the terms " m a j o r " and " m i n o r " for the purposes of
this subdivision (c).
    (d) A diversified major, hereby declared to be an academic
subject matter major, totaling 84 semester hours of course-
work in the enumerated subject matter areas, with 19 to 23
semester hours in each of the first four of the following areas:
    (1) English, including grammar, literature, composition,
and speech.
    (2) Mathematics and the physical or life sciences.
    (3) Social sciences (other than education and education
methodology).
    (4) Humanities and fine arts, including foreign language.
    (5) Health science.
   Four semester hours of coursework meet the health science
requirement.
    Coursework in the listed fields taken in fulfillment of any
other requirements that may be specified by the State Board
of Education pursuant to subdivision (e) shall be credited
toward this major. Notwithstanding any additional require-
ments as may be prescribed by the State Board of Education,
the academic subject matter requirements set forth in this sub-
division (d) shall constitute the total of such requirements for
the standard teaching credential with a specialization in ele-
mentary teaching and with a diversified major as defined in
this subdivision (d).
    Notwithstanding any provisions of this section to the con-
 trary, a California State College may approve a major in edu-
 cation, provided that such major meets the requirements of the
 diversified major as set forth in this subdivision (d) and that
 all coursework used to meet such requirements be provided in
 the several academic schools or departments, other than the
2846              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Cft. J4Q1

school or department of education or educational methodology,
of the institution. In addition to such major in education, a
major in a subject matter area commonly taught in the public
elementary schools shall be completed within the fifth academic
year required in subdivision (a) of this section.
   (e) Such additional requirements as may be prescribed by
the State Board of Education. I n promulgating any additional
requirements the State Board of Education is hereby directed
to emphasize academic and subject matter preparation, profes-
sional preparation, and student teaching or its equivalent in
teaching experience. Such additional requirements shall include
provisions for specialized preparation whenever the credential
authorizes any service described in Section 13188(b).
   (f) All public institutions of higher learning authorized to
recommend the issuance of the standard teaching credential
with specialization in elementary teaching shall offer courses
meeting the minimum state requirements for professional
preparation, including student teaching, in the upper division
of their course offerings.
   SEC. 2. Section 13190 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   13190. The standard teaching credential with a specializa-
tion in elementary teaching shall authorize ^he holder t o :
   (a) Teach, in kindergarten or grades 1 to 9, inclusive, ex-
cept courses in special education, as follows:
   (1) A person with an academic major may teach any sub-
ject in kindergarten and in grades 1 to 9, inclusive, in a self-
contained class. He may teach in a departmentalized class in
grades 7, 8, and 9 any subject in which he has 18 semester
hours of eoursework or nine semester hours of upper division
or graduate eoursework when the governing board of the dis-
trict maintaining such grades by resolution specifically author-
izes him to teach the subject. The authorization of the govern-
ing board shall remain valid for one year and may be renewed
annually.
   For the purposes of this section: a "self-contained class"
is a class in which most of the subjects in one grade are taught
by one teacher; and a "departmentalized class" is a class in
which one subject or one group of closely related subjects, is
taught by one teacher.
   (2) A person with other than an academic major may teach
in kindergarten or in grades 1 to 9, inclusive, only in subject
matter areas in which he has a major or a minor.
   (b) Teach, in classes organized primarily for adults, any
courses.
   (c) Teach, in kindergarten or in grades 1 to 14, inclusive,
any courses in an area in which the holder has completed spe-
cialized preparation.
   (d) Serve as a librarian in an elementary school, junior
high school, high school, or junior college, if the holder has
completed the specialized preparation area of librarianship.
                     1969
Ch. 1401]                   ftEGtrLAR sfisstoN                2847

     (e) Teach, in continuation education classes, in continua-
 tion high schools, or in high schools, elementary-level reading.
     SEC. 3. Section 13191.1 of the Education Code is amended
 to read:
    13191.1. The standard teaching credential with a speciali-
zation in secondary teaching may be granted on a partial ful-
 fillment of requirements basis and the entire fifth year of
preparation may be postponed subject to completion within a
minimum of five years on an orderly year-by-year basis from
 the date the credential is granted if all of the following cir-
 cumstances are met:
     (1) The applicant states in writing that he intends to com-
plete all of the requirements for the credential within the five-
year period.
     (2) An official of a school district states in writing that
the applicant will be employed in that district to serve under
the partial credential if it is granted, or a comparable state-
ment made by a county superintendent of schools or an official
of a state agency.
     (3) The county board of education in which the employing
school district is located has found and declares that a short-
age of teachers exists in that district in the teaching field or
in the teaching fields of the applicant's major or minor. The
credential may be changed for service in another school dis-
trict of the same county when the applicant has fulfilled his
contract or is released from it, or to a school district in another
county when he has fulfilled his contract or is released from it.
However, the county board in the new county must have found
that a shortage in the appropriate teaching field or fields exists.
    The State Board of Education shall establish guidelines by
which county boards of education can determine the teacher
shortages.
    This section shall be operative only until September 30,
1970, and shall thereafter have no further force and effect.
    SEC. 4. Section 13192 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    13192. The standard teaching credential with a specializa-
tion in secondary teaching shall authorize the holder t o :
     (a) Teach, in grades 7 to 12, inclusive, any course, except
in special education, in which the holder has completed a sub-
ject matter major or subject matter minor.
    (b) Teach, in classes organized primarily for adults, any
courses.
    (c) Teach, in kindergarten and grades 1 to 14, inclusive,
any courses in which the holder has completed a specialized
area of preparation.
    (d) Teach, in grades 7 to 12, inclusive, any courses, except
courses in special education, that the governing board of the
district maintaining such grades specifically authorizes the
holder to teach by resolution adopted by the board; except
that a holder may teach only any of those subjects commonly
   90—1864
2848               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  TQJ1_ J4Q2

taught in the public high schools in which he has completed 18
or more semester hours of coursework or nine semester hours
of upper division or graduate coursework. Such authorization
shall remain valid for one year. The authorization may be re-
newed annually by resolution of the governing board.
   (e) Teach, in grades 13 and 14 any course, except courses
in special education, in which the holder has completed a sub-
ject matter major or minor that the governing board of the
district maintaining such grades specifically authorizes the
holder to teach by resolution adopted by the board. Such au-
thorization shall remain valid for one year. The authorization
may be renewed annually by resolution of the governing board.
   (f) Serve as a librarian in an elementary school, junior
high school, high school, or junior college, if the holder has
completed the specialized preparation area of librarianship.
  Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
holder of a standard credential specializing in secondary
teaching with a major or minor in music or art, from teaching
music or art in the elementary grades of a school district.


                        CHAPTEK 1402
An act to amend Sections 4800, 4801, 4802, and 4803 of the
  Labor Code, relating to service disability of enforcement
  personnel of the California Highway Patrol, Bureau of Nar-
  cotic Enforcement, and Bureau of Criminal      Identification
  and Investigation.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4800 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4800. Whenever any member of the California Highway
Patrol or any member of the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement,
or member of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and In-
vestigation of the Department of Justice falling within the
"law enforcement" class is disabled by injury arising out of
and in the course of his duties, he shall become entitled, re-
gardless of his period of service with the patrol, narcotics
bureau, or criminal identification and investigation bureau to
leave of absence while so disabled without loss of salary, in
lieu of disability payments under this chapter, for a period of
not exceeding one year. This section shall apply only to mem-
bers of the California Highway Patrol, the Bureau of Narcotic
Enforcement and the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation whose principal duties consist of active law en-
forcement and shall not apply to persons employed in the
Department of the California Highway Patrol or the Bureau
                    1969
Ch. 1402]                  REGULAK SESSION                 2849

 of Narcotic Enforcement or Criminal Identification and In-
 vestigation whose principal duties are those of telephone oper-
 ator, clerk, stenographer, machinist, mechanic or otherwise
 clearly not falling within the scope of active law enforcement
 service, even though such person is subject to occasional call
 or is occasionally called upon to perform duties within the
 scope of active law enforcement service.
    This section shall apply to harbor policemen employed by the
 San Francisco Port Authority who are described in Section
 20017.76 of the Government Code.
    SEC. 2. Section 4801 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4801. I t shall be the duty of the appeals board to deter-
mine in the case of members of the California Highway
Patrol, upon request of the Department of the California High-
way Patrol or Department of Justice, and, in the case of the
harbor policemen, upon the request of the Ban Francisco Port
Authority, whether or not the disability referred to in Section
4800 arose out of and in the course of duty. The appeals board
shall, also in any disputed case, determine when such disability
ceases.
   SEC. 3. Section 4802 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4802. Any such member of the California Highway Patrol
or Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement, or Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation, or any such harbor police-
man, so disabled is entitled from the date of injury and re-
gardless of retirement under the Public Employees' Eetire-
ment System, to the medical, surgical and hospital benefits
prescribed by this division as part of the compensation for
persons injured in the course of and arising out of their em-
ployment, at the expense of the Department of the California
Highway Patrol, the Department of Justice, or the San Fran-
cisco Port Authority, as the case may be, and such expense
shall be charged upon the fund out of which the compensation
of the member is paid.
   SEC. 4. Section 4803 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4803. "Whenever such disability of such member of the Cali-
fornia Highway Patrol, or Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement,
or Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or of
such harbor policeman, continues for a period beyond one
year, such member shall thereafter be subject, as to disability
indemnity, to the provisions of this division other than Section
4800, which refers to temporary disability only, during the
remainder of the disability, except that such compensation
shall be paid out of funds available for the support of the
Department of the California Highway Patrol, the Department
of Justice, or the San Francisco Port Authority, as the case
may be, and the leave of absence shall continue.
2850              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1402

   SEC. 5. Section 4800 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4800. Whenever any member of the California Highway
Patrol, the California State Police, or any member of the Bu-
reau of Narcotic Enforcement or member of the Bureau of
 Criminal Identification and Investigation of the Department of
Justice falling within the "law enforcement" class is disabled
by injury arising out of and in the course of his duties, he
shall become entitled, regardless of his period of service with
the patrol, State Police, Narcotics Bureau, or Criminal Identi-
fication and Investigation Bureau to leave of absence while so
disabled without loss of salary, in lieu of disability payments
under this chapter, for a period of not exceeding one year.
This section shall apply only to members of the California
Highway Patrol, the California State Police, the Bureau of
Narcotic Enforcement, and the Bureau of Criminal Identifica-
tion and Investigation whose principal duties consist of active
law enforcement and shall not apply to those persons em-
ployed in the Department of the California Highway Patrol,
the Department of General Services, the Bureau of Narcotic
Enforcement, and Bureau of Criminal Identification and In-
vestigation whose principal duties are those of telephone oper-
ator, clerk, stenographer, machinist, mechanic, security officer
or otherwise clearly not falling within the scope of active law
enforcement service, even though such person is subject to
occasional call or is occasionally called upon to perform duties
within the scope of active law enforcement service. This sec-
tion shall apply only to those members of the California State
Police who are graduates of an academy certified by the Com-
mission on Peace Officers Standards and. Training.
   This section shall apply to harbor policemen employed by
the San Francisco Port Authority who are described in Section
20017.76 of the Government Code.
   SEC. 6. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 4800 of the Labor Code proposed by both this bill
and A.B. 864 are enacted, that both amendments be given effect
and incorporated in Section 4800 in the form set forth in Sec-
tion 5 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 864 is enacted
and amends Section 4800, Section 5 of this act shall become
operative at the same time that Section 4800 as amended by
A.B. 864 becomes operative, and at that time, Section 4800 of
the Labor Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 4801 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4801. It shall be the duty of the appeals board to determine
in the case of members of the California Highway Patrol, upon
request of the Department of the California Highway Patrol
or Department of Justice, and, in the case of members of the
California State Police, upon request of the Department of
General Services, and, in the case of the harbor policemen,
upon the request of the San Francisco Port Authority,
                    1969
Ch. 1402]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2851

 whether or not the disability referred to in Section 4800 arose
 out of and in the course of duty. The appeals board shall,
also, in any disputed case, determine when such disability
ceases.
    SEC. 8. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 4801 of the Labor Code proposed by both this bill
and A.B. 864 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 4801 in the form set forth
in Section 7 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 864 is
enacted and amends Section 4801, Section 7 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 4801 as
amended by A.B. 864 becomes operative, and at that time, Sec-
tion 4801 of the Labor Code as amended by Section 2 of this
act is repealed.
    SEC. 9. Section 4802 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4802. Any such member of the California Highway Patrol,
California State Police, Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement, Bu-
reau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or any such
harbor policeman, so disabled is entitled from the date of in-
jury and regardless of retirement under the Public Employees'
Retirement System, to the medical, surgical and hospital bene-
fits prescribed by this division as part of the compensation for
persons injured in the course of and arising out of their em-
ployment, at the expense of the Department of the California
Highway Patrol, the Department of General Services, the
Department of Justice, or the San Francisco Port Authority,
as the case may be, and such expense shall be charged upon
the fund out of which the compensation of the member is paid.
   SEC. 10. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 4802 of the Labor Code proposed by both this bill
and A.B. 864 are enacted, that both amendments be given effect
and incorporated in Section 4802 in the form set forth in
Section 9 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 864 is en-
acted and amends Section 4802, Section 9 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 4802 as
amended by A.B. 864 becomes operative, and at that time, Sec-
tion 4802 of the Labor Code as amended by Section 3 of this
act is repealed.
   SEC. 11. Section 4803 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   4803. Whenever such disability of such member of the
California Highway Patrol, Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement,
Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, the Cali-
fornia State Police, or of such harbor policeman, continues
for a period beyond one year, such member shall thereafter be
subject, as to disability indemnity, to the provisions of this
division other than Section 4800, which refers to temporary
disability only, during the remainder of the disability, except
that such compensation shall be paid out of funds available
for the support of the Department of the California Highway
2852              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      m ^ 1403

Patrol, the Department of Justice, the Department of General
Services, or the San Francisco Port Authority, as the case
may be, and the leave of absence shall continue.
   SEC. 12. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 4803 of the Labor Code proposed by both this bill
and A.B. 864 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 4803 in the form set forth
in Section 11 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 864 is
enacted and amends Section 4803, Section 11 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 4803 as
amended by A.B. 864 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 4803 of the Labor Code as amended by Section 4 of
this act is repealed.

                        C H A P T E E 1403
An act to add Article 4 (commencing with Section 24561) to
  Chapter 1, Part 1, Division 12 of the Agricultural Code, re-
  lating to poultry, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take
  effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 2, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 4 (commencing with Section 24561) is
added to Chapter 1, Part 1, Division 12 of the Agricultural
Code, to read:

       Article 4. Poultry Regulations and Inspections

   24561. Notwithstanding any provisions of law to the con-
trary, the director may adopt by regulation standards and
requirements equal to those of the Poultry Products Inspec-
tion Act (71 Stat. 441, 21 U.S.C. 451, et seq. as amended by
the "Wholesome Poultry Products Act, Pub. Law 90-492), in-
cluding, but not limited to, standards and requirements of
inspection, sanitation, reinspection, preparation, processing,
buying, selling, transporting, storing, identification, record-
keeping, registration, and labeling. The regulations shall not
be less restrictive than state statutory requirements. The direc-
tor may enter into cooperative agreements with departments,
divisions, bureaus, boards, or commissions of the United States
to enforce such standards and requirements in this state.
   24562. Regulations adopted pursuant to this article or pur-
suant to Section 24681 or Section 24991 shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the rules, regulations and standards of the
United States Department of Agriculture which govern the
inspection, preparation, and processing of poultry meat and
poultry meat food products.
Oh. 1404]              1969 REGULAR SESSION                     2853

   24563. If slaughtering or carcass preparation or process-
ing of poultry meats and poultry meat products is conducted
in an establishment where state inspection is maintained at
hours considered overtime for state employees or on legal
holidays, the owner or operator of the establishment shall,
by contract or agreement with the department, make arrange-
ment to defray the additional cost for salaries and expenses
for persons employed by the department to conduct the neces-
sary poultry meat inspection work during the overtime peri-
ods.
   Moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited
in the General Fund.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such neces-
sity are:
   In order for the Director of Agriculture to make any
changes in state inspection regulations to meet new federal
standards as soon as possible and in order to qualify for fed-
eral funds, this act must take effect immediately.


                          CHAPTER 1404
An act to add a chapter heading immediately preceding Sec-
  tion 13975 of, and to add Chapter 2 (commencing with Sec-
  tion 13990) to Part 4.5 of Division 3 of Title 2 of, the Gov-
  ernment Code, relating to transportation.
            [Approved by Governor August 31, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 2, 19 69.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. A chapter heading is added to the Government
Code immediately preceding Section 13975, to read:

            CHAPTER 1.     GENERAL DUTIES AND POWERS

  SEC. 2. Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 13990) is
added to Part 4.5 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
Code, to read:

       CHAPTER 2.       CALIFORNIA TRANSPORTATION BOARD

  13990. The Legislature finds and declares that the people
of California have a fundamental and continuing interest in
developing and operating transportation services and facilities
which are consistent and compatible with orderly social and
economic progress of the state. To provide the Secretary of
Business and Transportation and the Legislature with advice
and assistance in a broad overview of the effectiveness and
2854              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [(Jh. 1404

compatability of public programs in transportation in relation
to other public programs and private enterprises, there is
hereby established in the Business and Transportation Agency
the State Transportation Board.
   13990.1. " B o a r d " as used in this chapter shall mean the
State Transportation Board.
   13990.2. There is in the Business and Transportation
Agency a State Transportation Board. The board consists of
seven members, appointed by the Governor with consent of
the State Senate. The members shall serve at the pleasure of
the Governor. The chairmen of the Senate and the Assembly
Transportation Committees shall be ex officio members without
vote and together shall constitute a Joint Legislative Commit-
tee on Transportation, and shall participate in the activities of
the board to the extent that such participation is not incom-
patible with their positions as Members of the Legislature.
   13990.3. The members of the board shall serve without
compensation but shall receive their actual and necessary
traveling expenses incurred in the exercise of their duties.
   13990.4. The appointed members of the board shall desig-
nate a chairman of the board by majority vote to preside at
all meetings. He shall serve for a one-year term and may not
serve more than two successive terms.
   13990.5. The chairman shall call the meetings of the board
and it shall meet at least four times a year.
   13990.6. The functions and duties of the board shall be to
advise and assist the Secretary of Business and Transporta-
tion and the Legislature in formulating and evaluating state
policy and plans for transportation programs within the state.
In addition it shall perform the following specific duties:
   (a) Request and review reports from the Office of Trans-
portation Planning and Research, and from other sources as it
may determine, pertaining to public financial participation in
transportation system development, planning, construction,
and operation, including the extent and nature of participa-
tion by local, regional, state, and federal governments.
   (b) Review master plans for major portions of the overall
statewide transportation system, including but not limited to
such plans as the California Freeway and Expressway Sys-
tem, the State Aviation Master Plan, and regional transporta-
tion plans developed by such organizations as the Bay Area
Transportation Study Commission, the Transportation Asso-
ciation of Southern California, the San Diego Comprehensive
Planning Organization.
   (c) Review the transportation implications of major state-
wide and regional comprehensive general plans, including, but
not limited to such plans as the State Development Plan, the
State Parks and Recreation Plan, reports of the San Fran-
cisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission, the
Southern California Association of Governments, and the As-
sociation of Bay Area Governments.
                     1969
Ch. 14051                   REGULAR SESSION                   2855

   (d) Based upon said reviews of financing and master plans,
present such advice and recommendations as it deems appro-
priate to the Secretary of Business and Transportation.
   (e) Assist, if so requested, in the determination of geo-
graphic boundaries of regional transportation districts utiliz-
ing wherever possible the logical groupings of cities and coun-
ties as established by existing planning agencies and provide
appropriate recommendations to the secretary and to the
Legislature for their establishment.
   (f) Assist any appropriate committee of the Legislature
whose activities relate to the transportation field, if requested,
in the field of overall balanced transportation, or any segment
thereof.

                        CHAPTER 1405
     An act to add Section 24053.1 to the Education Code,
           relating to the California State Colleges.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969 Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 24053.1 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   24053.1. In order to more capably assess the needs of the
California State Colleges, the Legislature declares its intent
to acquire an accurate description of the relationship between
state funds appropriated to the California State Colleges and
the actual expenditure of such funds.
   The trustees shall present to the Legislature and to the Legis-
lative Analyst a description of such relationships for the 1969-
1970 fiscal year by November 1, 1970.
   In order to facilitate such presentations, the president of
each state college shall present to the trustees and to the Legis-
lative Analyst within 90 days after the end of the 1969-1970
fiscal year a report which compares in detail, as determined
by the Department of Finance, Legislative Analyst, and the
trustees, the actual expenditures by the particular state col-
lege with the state funds appropriated therefore by the Budget
Act or any other appropriation measure for such fiscal year
within the expenditure classifications for which state funds
were appropriated. The president shall present a list of devia-
tions of actual expenditures from the appropriations, with an
explanation in such detail as is required above of each of the
deviations.
   The Legislative Analyst, the Department of Finance, and
the trustees may require such other information to be pre-
sented as they deem useful in carrying out the purposes of
this section.
2856              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   ^Q^   l£QQ

                        CHAPTER 1406
An act to add Sections 23620, 24053.1, 24053.2, and 24053.3 to
         the Education Code, relating to state colleges.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 23620 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   23620. The Trustees of the California State Colleges shall
establish an internal audit staff which shall include such staff
positions as may be presently authorized for internal audit-
ing. The internal auditing staff shall report directly to the
trustees and shall be available for consultation with any audit
committee of the trustees which may be established by the
trustees.
   The duties of the internal audit staff shall include, but shall
not be limited to, auditing, reviewing, cost and systems analy-
sis, analyzing, and recommending operating procedures for
the California State Colleges.
   Management audits shall be made to determine the effective-
ness and efficiency of the organization, operation, and proce-
dures of each state college and the Office of the Chancellor.
Officials and employees of each state college and the Office of
the Chancellor shall furnish all books, papers, contracts, man-
agement charts, and related information necessary for such
management audits.
   SEC. 2. Section 24053.1 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   24053.1. All appropriations for the support of the Cali-
fornia State Colleges and the trustees shall be subject to the
provisions of Section 13320 of the Government Code and appli-
cable budget act restrictions, with the following exceptions:
    (a) The trustees may approve any transfer of funds within
functions for which funds are appropriated for the support
of the California State Colleges. In addition, the trustees may
authorize the augmentation of the amount available for a cate-
gory designated in any schedule set forth for such appropri-
ation by transfer from any of the other designated categories,
including additional reimbursements within the same schedule,
and shall furnish the Joint Legislative Budget Committee a
report of such authorizations given during the preceding
quarter.
    (b) The trustees may approve the substitution of one item
of equipment for another within budgetary functions and the
use of savings in equipment allotments.
    (c) The trustees may approve travel, both within and out-
side the state, and the payment of allowances and expenses
related to travel, moving and the relocation of employees in
                      1969
Ch. 14071                    REGULAR SESSION                    2857

accordance with the allowances established by the State Board
of Control and within funds appropriated for this purpose.
    (d) The trustees may, within funds appropriated for the
support of the California State Colleges, establish new posi-
tions and make changes in existing positions and the position
payroll roster, provided that all such new positions and sig-
nificant changes, as defined by the Department of Finance,
in grade or class of existing positions shall be shown as admin-
istrative adjustments in the subsequent budgetary submissions
and shall be subject to review during the legislative budget
process.
   SEC. 3. Section 24053.2 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   24053.2. The intent of Section 24053.1 is to give the trustees
maximum responsibility within available funds. I t is the fur-
ther intent of the Legislature by said provisions to allow the
trustees greater flexibility in their financial affairs and to allow
the individual campuses greater flexibility in the expenditure
of their appropriations.
   SEC. 4. Section 24053.3 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   24053.3. All actions of the trustees taken pursuant to Sec-
tion 24053.1 are limited to the fiscal year in which the action is
taken and subject to audit by the Department of Finance, as
well as legislative review, prior to extension into the subsequent
fiscal year.

                         CHAPTER 1407
An act to amend Sections 18060 and 18062 of the Education
        Code, relating to 'public school transportation.
          [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 3, 1969.j

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 18060 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   18060. (a) In addition to all other amounts allowed to a
school district under this article, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall allow to each school district for transporting
blind, deaf, aphasic, cerebral palsied, orthopedically handi-
capped and other physically impaired minor pupils handicapped
in mobility and including mentally retarded minors who come
within the provisions of Section 6903, to and from special day
classes, three hundred eighty-nine dollars ($389) for each unit
of average daily attendance of such pupils during the fiscal
year resulting from the attendance of such pupils on the
special day classes to and from which they are transported by
the district.
2858              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA               [QJj. 1 4 0 7

   (b) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall allow
to the county school service fund of each county for transport-
ing blind, deaf, aphasic, cerebral palsied, orthopedically handi-
capped and other physically impaired minor pupils handi-
capped in mobility and including mentally retarded minors
who come within the provisions of Section 6903, to and from
special day classes, three hundred eighty-nine dollars ($389)
for each unit of average daily attendance during the fiscal
year resulting from the attendance of such pupils on the special
day classes to and from which they are transported by the
county superintendent of schools.
    (c) For each school district and county superintendent of
schools furnishing transportation pursuant to subdivision (a)
or subdivision (b) under circumstances requiring the opera-
tion of vehicles exclusively for such purpose, the Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction shall allow under each such
 subdivision 75 percent of any expense in excess of three
hundred eighty-nine dollars ($389), but the additional al-
 lowance shall not exceed seventy-three dollars ($73), per unit
 of average daily attendance of such pupils. Such amount shall
be allowed.as a part of the second principal apportionment
 upon special request made therefor to, and upon approval
 by, the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
    (d) As used in this section, "physically impaired minor
pupils handicapped in mobility" means those children who are
deemed eligible for special class placement as defined by the
State Board of Education.
    (e) If the Superintendent of Public Instruction determines
that the current expense of providing transportation under
this section does not equal or exceed the allowance provided
for such purpose, then the amount of the deficiency shall be
withheld from state apportionments to the school district or
the county superintendent of schools, as the case may be, in
accordance with the procedure prescribed in Section 17414.
Such amounts withheld shall then be apportioned, on a pro
rata basis against the expenses, to those districts which main-
tain and operate vehicles exclusively for the transportation of
handicapped pupils. I n no case shall any district receive an
amount greater than its total current expense in providing
such transportation.
   SEC. 2. Section 18062 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   18062. In addition to all other amounts allowed to a school
district under this article, the Superintendent of Public In-
struction shall allow to each school district for transporting
minor pupils whose vision or hearing is impaired to a degree
making it practical to transport them to the California School
for the Blind or to the California School for the Deaf or to
some location in another public school district where special-
ized instruction may be afforded, three hundred eighty-nine
dollars ($389) for each unit of average daily attendance of
                     1969
Ch. 14081                   REGULAR SESSION                    2859

such pupils during the fiscal year resulting from the attend-
ance of such pupils on the classes of specialized instruction
to and from which they are transported as day-class pupils.
    For each school district furnishing transportation under cir-
cumstances requiring the operation of vehicles exclusively for
that purpose, the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall
 allow 75 percent of any expense in excess of three hundred
eighty-nine dollars ($389), but the additional allowance shall
not exceed seventy-three dollars ($73), per unit of average
daily attendance of such pupils. Such amount shall be" allowed
as a part of the second principal apportionment upon special
request made therefor to, and upon approval by, the Super-
intendent of Public Instruction.
   Allowances under this section shall be subject to the ap-
proval of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of the
practicality of transporting the pupils involved in any par-
ticular instance to the place where specialized instruction is
afforded.
    If the Superintendent of Public Instruction determines that
the current expense of providing transportation under this
section does not equal or exceed the allowance provided for
such purpose, then the amount of the deficiency shall be with-
held from state apportionments to the school district in accord-
ance with the procedure prescribed in Section 17414. Such
amounts withheld shall then be apportioned, on a pro rata basis
against the expenses, to those districts which maintain and
operate vehicles exclusively for the transportation of handi-
capped pupils. In no case shall any district receive an amount
greater than its total current expense in providing such trans-
portation.

                        CHAPTEB 1408
An act to amend Sections 12820, 12821, 12823, 12830, 12830.5,
  and 12852 of, to add an article heading immediately pre-
  ceding Section 12832 of, and to repeal Section 12823.1 and
  the article heading immediately preceding Section 12830 of,
  the Education Code, relating to testing of public school
  pupils.
         [Approved by Governor September 2, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 12820 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  12820. As used in this chapter:
  (a) "Achievement t e s t " means any standardized test which
measures or attempts to measure the level of performance
which a pupil has attained in one or more basic skills courses.
^860              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQ^ j4Qg

    (b) "Physical performance t e s t " means any test which
measures or attempts to measure the physical fitness of a pupil.
    (c) "Scholastic aptitude test" means any standardized test
which measures or attempts to measure the academic ability
of a pupil at the time of the test.
    (d) "State testing program" means the systematic achieve-
ment, scholastic aptitude testing, and physical fitness of any
or all pupils in grade 6 and grade 12 in any or all schools
within a school district.
    (e) ''Basic skills courses" means those subjects which in-
volve, among other skills, memorization and mastery of specific
functions, including, but not limited to, reading, spelling, basic
mathematics, and grammar.
    (f) "Content courses" means those subjects which require
the integration of factual matter, logical analysis, the solution
by the student of posed problems, and the ability to communi-
cate ideas, including, but not limited to, literature, history,
advanced mathematics, and science.
   SEC. 2. Section 12821 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   12821. The State Board of Education shall require a mini-
mum testing program in all school districts. It shall adopt rules
and regulations governing the methods of administration of
the state testing programs.
   The State Board of Education shall annually designate or
redesignate the achievement, scholastic aptitude test, and the
physical performance test, which shall be used during the
ensuing school year in the state testing program, except as
provided in Section 12824.
   I t is the intent and purpose of the Legislature that the
State Board of Education shall assess the level of student
competence and achievement in the various content and basic
skill courses commonly taught in the public schools. The Leg-
islature finds and declares that a finding of adequate pupil
competence and achievement is essential if public expenditures
on education are to be justified.
   SEC. 3. Section 12823 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   12823. The governing board of a school district shall pro-
vide the State Department of Education with the results of
any state testing program, except physical performance tests,
conducted in the school district upon forms which the Super-
intendent of Public Instruction may prescribe. The district-
wide results of the testing program, but not the score or relative
position of individual pupils, shall be reported to the govern-
ing board of the district at least once a year at a regularly
scheduled meeting.
   If at the time the State Board of Education designates the
physical performance tests to be given, it also requests all or
certain named school districts to provide the results thereof,
such results shall be furnished and reported by those districts
                    1969
Ch. 1408]                  REGULAR SESSION                   2861

as provided in this section. This report shall be required at
least once every two years.
   SEC. 4. Section 12823.1 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 5. The article heading immediately preceding Section
12830 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 6. Section 12830 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   12830. The State Board of Education shall adopt achieve-
ment tests pursuant to this chapter which adequately evaluate
the level of student competence.
   SEC. 7. Section 12830.5 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   12830.5. The governing board of each school district main-
taining grade 6 or grade 12, or both, shall annually administer
the achievement tests designated by the State Board of Edu-
cation at each of such appropriate grade levels.
   SEC. 8. An article heading is added immediately preceding
Section 12832 of the Education Code, to read:

       Article 2. Eesearch Studies in the Effectiveness
                    of Content Courses
   SEC. 9. Section 12852 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   12852. The State Department of Education shall prepare
and submit an annual report to the State Board of Education
and to each school district in the state containing an
analysis, on a district-by-district basis, of the results of every
testing program conducted through a statewide program or
on a statewide basis, including tests administered pursuant to
the Miller-Unruh Basic Beading Act of 1965 (Chapter 5.8
 (commencing with Section 5770) of Division 6), which is to in-
clude, but is not limited to, an analysis of the following op-
erational factors having a substantive relationship to or bear-
ing on such results:
   (a) Maximum and minimum salary paid to teachers.
   (b) Average class size in grades 1 to 3, inclusive.
   (c) Pupil-teacher ratio in grades 4 to 8, inclusive.
   (d) Number of nonteaching certificated personnel per 100
full-time teachers.
   (e) Total rate of school district tax.
   (f) Assessed valuation per average daily attendance.
   (g) Percentage of minority enrollment.
   (h) Index of family poverty, derived from dividing funds
received under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (Public Law 89-10) by the average daily
attendance in the district.
   (i) Average scholastic ability.
   (j) Average transitory factor as derived from dividing the
average daily attendance of the school district by the total
annual enrollment of the school district,
2862                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [ Q l . 1409

                         CHAPTER 1409
An act to amend Sections 29007, 29007.3, 29007.5, and 29018.5
  of the Education Code, relating to private educational in-
  stitutions.
          [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed -with
                 Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 29007 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   29007. Except as otherwise provided by law, no person,
firm, association, partnership or corporation may issue, confer
or award an academic or honorary "degree' or " t i t l e "
(meaning any designation, mark, appellation, series of letters
or words such as, but not limited to, associate, bachelor, master,
doctor or fellow) which signifies, purports or is generally taken
to signify satisfactory completion of the requirements of an
academic or professional program of study beyond the second-
ary school level unless such person, firm, association, partner-
ship or corporation meets the requirements of any one of the
three subdivisions of subdivision (a) of this section.
   No person, firm, association, partnership or corporation may
issue, confer, or award any "diploma" bearing the words
diploma, certificate, transcript, document or other writing,
other than the awarding of a " d e g r e e " title, representing that
any person has completed any course of study beyond high
school unless such person, firm, association, partnership or cor-
poration meets the requirements of one of the subdivisions
 (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section.
   (a) (1) A person, firm, association, partnership or corpora-
tion which at the time of the issuance of a " d e g r e e " has ac-
creditation of the course upon which the " d e g r e e " is based by
a national accrediting agency recognized by the United States
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Office of Ed-
ucation, or is accredited by the applicable regional accrediting
agency recognized by the United States Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare, Office of Education, and provided
further that the educational institution has filed with the Su-
perintendent of Public Instruction an affidavit by the president
of the institution stating that the institution is so accredited.
   (2) A person, firm, association, partnership or corporation
approved by the Superintendent of Public Instruction to
award or issue specified degrees. Such permission shall be
granted upon a year-to-year basis by the Superintendent of
Public Instruction. Application for such authorization shall be
on forms furnished by the State Department of Education.
The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall not approve
an institution to issue degrees until it it determined, based on
information submitted to him, that the course of instruction
                    1969 R E
Ch. 1409]                      G U L A R SESSION           2863

has the facilities and the faculty to afford students and require
of students the completion of a program of education which
will prepare them for the attainment of a recognized profes-
sional, vocational, or educational objective; and the curriculum
is consistent in content and quality with curricula offered by
established institutions that issue the appropriate degree upon
the satisfactory completion thereof. For the purpose of this
subdivision the Superintendent of Public Instruction may com-
pare with the requirements and standards of an accrediting
agency generally accepted by the class of institution concerned.
This shall include the determination that the course for which
the degree is granted achieves its professed or claimed objec-
tive for higher education. The provisions of Chapter 5 (com-
mencing with Section 11500) of P a r t 1 of Division 3 of Title 2
of the Government Code shall be applicable to any determina-
tion of the Superintendent of Public Instruction made pur-
suant to this subdivision.
   (3) A corporation which has filed with the Superintendent
of Public Instruction an affidavit by the president or other
head of the corporation, stating that the corporation owns an
interest in real or personal property or both real and personal
property used exclusively for the purpose of education, of a
fair market value of not less than fifty thousand dollars
 ($50,000). Such affidavit shall be accompanied by an appraisal
by a state inheritance tax appraiser appointed for the county
in which the institution is located, describing the real or per-
sonal property or both, and showing the value of the interest
of the corporation therein to be at least fifty thousand dollars
 ($50,000). The value of the interest of the property required
to be owned by the corporation for the purposes of this section
shall be deemed to be the appraised value of the interest owned
by the corporation less the unpaid balance on any note secured
by a mortgage or deed of trust thereon or the unpaid balance
on a contract of sale thereof. Filing pursuant to this section
shall not be interpreted to mean, and it shall be unlawful
for any corporation to expressly or impliedly represent by any
means whatsoever, that the State of California, the Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction, the State Board of Education,
the California State Department of Education, or any division
or bureau thereof, has made any evaluation, recognition, ac-
creditation, approval, or endorsement of the course of study.
   (b) A hospital licensed under the provisions of Division 2,
Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1400) of the Health and
Safety Code, which issues diplomas in connection with the
operation of a hospital.
   (c) A person, firm, association, partnership or corporation
which is accredited, approved, or licensed by a state board or
agency as a school and which issues or confers diplomas in
the profession, vocation or occupation controlled by the board
or agency accrediting, approving, or licensing i t ; provided,
that this subdivision shall not be construed as authorizing the
2864                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 TQJ1_ J4Q9

 issuing of a diploma which is not customarily granted for the
 training given and which is limited to the profession, vocation
 or occupation controlled by the accrediting, approving, or
 licensing board.
    (d) Any educational institution accredited for teacher
training by the State Board of Education for credentials in
 the field of teacher training; provided, that this subdivision
 shall not be construed as authorizing the issuance of a diploma
 which is not based exclusively on the courses of instruction
 accredited by the State Board of Education.
    (e) A person, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
 which at the time of the issuance of a "diploma," as "di-
 ploma" is defined in Section 29001, has accreditation of the
 specific course of study upon which the " d i p l o m a " is based by
 a national or applicable regional accrediting agency recognized
by the United States Department of Health, Education, and
Welfare, Office of Education; provided, that the educational
 institution has filed with the Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion an affidavit by the administrative head of the institution
 stating that the course of study is so accredited.
    (f) A person, firm, association, partnership or corporation
 authorized by the Superintendent of Public Instruction to
issue specified diplomas. Such permission shall be granted
 upon a year-to-year basis by the Superintendent of Public In-
 struction upon the submission of information to him that the
 courses of instruction and the faculty or requirements of such
 applicant will afford students or require of students a course
of education comparable to that being furnished by persons,
firms, associations, partnerships and corporations offering
similar instruction and complying with other subdivisions
hereof. For the purpose of this subdivision, the Superintend-
ent of Public Instruction may rely on the findings of an ac-
crediting or approving agency generally accepted by the class
of institution concerned and shall consider the results of the
examination taken pursuant to Section 2941.5 of the Business
and Professions Code, by students of any applicant. The pro-
visions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part
1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code shall be
applicable to any determination of the superintendent made
pursuant to this subdivision.
    SEC. 2. Section 29007.3 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    29007.3. No person, either on his own behalf or as the
representative of any privately conducted correspondence
school or of any private person, firm, association, partnership,
or corporation whatever, shall, by personal contact, in Cali-
fornia, solicit the sale of or solicit and sell any correspondence
course of study beyond high school, of high school level, or
below high school level, for a remuneration or other considera-
tion to be provided for such course, unless he holds a valid
permit to engage in such activity issued by the State Board
                    1969
Ch. 1409]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2865

 of Education. The State Board of Education may delegate its
authority to issue this permit to the State Superintendent of
Public Instruction.
    The State Board of Education, or the State Superintendent
 of Public Instruction, if such authority has been delegated by
the State Board of Education, shall promptly cause to be
prepared, and shall, pursuant to this section, issue appropriate
permits authorizing the holder to engage in the solicitation of
sales and the selling of such courses of study.
   No person shall be issued a permit except upon the sub-
mission of satisfactory evidence of good moral character.
   A permit shall be valid for the calendar year in which it is
issued unless sooner revoked or suspended by the State Board
of Education for fraud or misrepresentation in connection
with the solicitation for the sale or the sale of any course of
study, or for the existence of any condition in respect to the
permittee or the school he represents which, if in existence at
the time the permit was issued would have been ground for
denial of the permit.
   The application for a permit shall be made by the person
who proposes to engage in the activities of soliciting or selling
in those cases where such activities are to be conducted in the
person's own behalf. Where the person for whom the issuance
of a permit is sought is to engage in the activities as a repre-
sentative, the application shall be made by the correspondence
school or other person, firm, association, partnership, or corpo-
ration for and on behalf of the person to serve as its repre-
sentative. Applications shall be submitted on forms to be
furnished by the Department of Education. The original appli-
cation shall be accompanied by an application fee of fifteen
dollars ($15), renewal supplications when renewed on a con-
tinuous basis and applications for additional sales permits
shall be accompanied by an application fee of ten dollars ($10).
Pees required by this section are hereby appropriated in aug-
mentation of the appropriation for support of the Department
of Education current at the date of issuance of the State Con-
troller's receipt thereof as may be designated by the Depart-
ment of Education prior to their deposit in the State Treasury
and shall be nonrefundable irrespective of whether or not a
permit is subsequently issued.
   The application shall be accompanied by a bond executed by
good and sufficient sureties making provision for full indem-
nification of any person for any material loss suffered as a
result of any fraud or misrepresentation used in connection
with the solicitation for the sale or the sale of any course of
study. The term of the bond shall extend over the period of
the permit. The bond may be supplied by the correspondence
school or other person, firm, association, partnership, or corpo-
ration, or by the person for whom issuance of the permit is
sought, and may extend to cover either an individual such
person or to provide blanket coverage for all persons to be
engaged as representatives of a correspondence school or other
2866              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r Qfo J 4 0 9

person, firm, association, partnership or corporation in the
 solicitation for sale or the sale of correspondence courses of
 study in California. Any bond shall provide for liability in
the penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for each repre-
sentative to whom coverage is extended by its terms. Neither
the principal nor surety on a bond may terminate the coverage
of the bond except upon giving 30 days' prior written notice
to the State Board of Education.
   The permittee shall carry the permit with him for identifica-
tion purposes when engaged in the solicitation of sales and the
selling of correspondence courses of study.
   No recovery by the correspondence school, or representative
thereof, shall be had on any contract for or in connection with
a course of study by any person selling or administering such
course if the representative of such person, firm, association,
partnership or corporation was not the holder of a permit as
 required by this section at the time that such representative
negotiated the contract for or sold such course.
   The judgment rendered in any action maintained for any
material loss suffered as a result of any fraud or misrepre-
sentation used in connection with the solicitation for the sale
or the sale of any course of study shall, if the plaintiff is the
prevailing party, include court costs including a reasonable
attorney's fee fixed by the court.
   The provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
 Code shall be applicable to any determination of the State
Board of Education made pursuant to this section.
   The issuance of a permit pursuant to this section shall not
be interpreted as, and it shall be unlawful for any individual
holding any such permit to expressly or impliedly represent
by any means whatever that the Superintendent of Public
Instruction, the State Board of Education, or the State De-
partment of Education has made, any evaluation, recognition,
accreditation or endorsement of any correspondence course of
study being offered for sale by the individual.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual holding a permit
under this section to expressly or impliedly represent by any
means whatever that the issuance of the permit constitutes an
assurance by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, the
State Board of Education, or the State Department of Educa-
tion that any correspondence course of study being offered for
sale by the individual will provide and require of the student
a course of education or training necessary to reach a profes-
sional, educational, or vocational objective, or will result in
employment or personal earnings for the student.
   The issuance of a permit under this section, and the pos-
session thereof, by an individual, shall be evidence only that
the surety bond prescribed by this section has been issued with
respect to the possessor and that he has submitted satisfactory
evidence of good moral character.
                    1969
Ch 14091                   REGULAR SESSION                  2867

   SEC. 3. Section 29007.5 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   29007.5. No course of education or training leading to an
educational, professional or vocational objective shall be offered
by any person, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
to or for adults which has not been approved by the Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction. Application for such approval
shall be made in writing on application forms provided by the
Department of Education. Pending final approval of new or
added courses of instruction, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall issue a temporary approval upon submission
of the complete application. Courses offered for adults by any
parochial or denominational school, or persons, firms, associ-
ations, partnerships, or corporations that have met the re-
quirements of other sections of this division, or are offered
solely for avocational or recreational purposes, will not be
required to be approved under this section.
   The Superintendent of Public Instruction may approve the
application for recognition of such courses on a year-to-year
basis when an institution is found by the Department of Edu-
cation to meet the following criteria:
    (1) The courses, curriculum, and instruction are consistent
in quality, content, and length with similar courses in public
schools or other private schools, or both, in the state, with
recognized accepted standards, for reaching the professed or
claimed objective for that particular course.
    (2) There is in the institution adequate space, equipment,
instructional material, and instructor personnel to provide
training of the quality needed to attain the objective of that
particular course.
    (3) Educational and experience qualifications of directors,
administrators, and instructors are adequate.
    (4) The institution maintains written records of the stu-
dent 's previous education and training with recognition where
applicable.
    (5) A copy of the course outline, schedule of tuition, fees
and other charges, regulations pertaining to tardiness, absence,
 grading policy and rules of operation and conduct is available
 to students upon enrollment.
    (6) Upon completion of training the institution may award
 an appropriate written document to the student indicating the
 training and attendance completed.
    (7) Adequate records shall be maintained by the institution
 to show attendance, progress, and grades.
    (8) The institution complies with all local city, county,
 municipal, state and federal regulations such as fire, building,
and sanitation codes. The Department of Education may re-
quire evidence of compliance.
    (9) The institution is financially capable of fulfilling its
 commitments for its approved courses.
2868               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Q^ J409

    (10) The institution does not utilize advertising of any type
 which is erroneous or misleading, either by actual statement,
 omission, or intimation. With respect to a school having courses
 approved by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, the
 school can advertise to the effect that the particular course has
 been approved by the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
    (11) The institution does not exceed enrollment facilities
 and equipment.
    (12) The institution's administrator, director, owner, and
 instructors are of good reputation and character.
    (13) The institution has and maintains a policy in reference
 to refund of the unused portion of tuition fees and other
 charges in the event the student fails to enter the course, or
 withdraws therefrom at any time prior to completion of the
 course.
   The provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
 Code shall be applicable to any determination of the Superin-
 tendent of Public Instruction made pursuant to this section.
    SEC. 4. Section 29018.5 of the Education Code is amended
 to read:
   29018.5. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall
 appoint a statewide advisory committee consisting of 15 mem-
 bers, of whom 9 shall be the administrative heads of schools or
 colleges which are operated exclusively under one or more of
 the following sections: Sections 29007(a)(2), 29007(f),
 29007.2, and 29007.5; of whom 3 shall represent schools or
 colleges operating under the following sections: 29007(a)(1),
 29007(b), 29007(c) and 29007(d) ; and of whom 1 each of the
 remaining 3 shall represent respectively, labor, management
 and the general public. The Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion shall appoint an employee of the State Department of
 Education to be an ex officio member of, and serve as secretary
and chief executive officer for, the committee. The chiefs of the
Division of Labor Law Enforcement and Apprenticeship
Standards, or their designate, shall also serve as ex officio
members of the committee. Ex officio members shall have no
vote.
   This committee shall act in an advisory capacity to the
Superintendent of Public Instruction in promulgation of rules
provided for by Section 29018; the Department of Education,
shall advise the committee prior to instituting any action to
deny, suspend, or withdraw recognition of courses or schools
under the provisions of Sections 29007(a)(2), 29007(f),
29007.2, and 29007.5. The Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion shall take into consideration the committee's recommenda-
tions before denying, suspending, or withdrawing recognition
of courses or schools under said sections.
   This committee shall meet at least twice each year, or upon
call by the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
   Committee members shall serve for three-year terms, and
shall not be eligible to immediately succeed themselves. With
                     1969
Ch. 1410]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2869

respect to the appointment of the first committee, however,
15 members as set forth in the first paragraph of this section
shall be appointed with indeterminate terms and, at the first
meeting, a drawing by lot shall be held at which 5 members
shall be selected to serve for three-year terms, 5 for two-year
terms, and 5 for one-year terms.
   The Superintendent of Public Instruction may impanel spe-
cial committees of technically qualified persons to assist the
Department of Education in the development of standards for
courses and the evaluation of any course or school applying
for recognition under the provisions of Sections 29007(a)(2),
29007(f), 29007.2, and 29007.5. These special committees shall
be empowered to make such inspections and studies as may be
necessary to enable them to advise the Department of Educa-
tion or the statewide committee in regard to action to be taken
in any particular situation. Members of these special commit-
tees shall not be connected in any way with a school which
may be the subject of inspection or investigation.
   The statewide advisory committee members and the special
committee members will serve at no expense to the state.


                        CHAPTER 1410
An act to amend Sections 28105, 28106, 28107, 28111, 28112,
  28113, 28114, 28115, 28117, 28118, 28119, 28120, 28121,
  28123, 28124, 28125, 28127, 28130, 28131, 28132, 28133,
  28134, 28138, 28139, 28141, 28147, 28149, 28151, 28153,
  28155, 28157, and 28158 of the Government Code, relating
  to county officers.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 19G9. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.1

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 28105 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   28105. In a county of the fifth class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their office the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, twenty-one thousand five hundred dollars
 ($21,500) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, twenty-seven thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($27,500) a year for his full-time services. He
shall not engage in the private practice of law.
   (c) Each supervisor, fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) a
year and the necessary and actual expenses incurred in the
performance of the duties of his office.
   (d) Grand jurors and trial jurors in superior courts and
municipal courts shall receive for each day's attendance in
court, upon regularly called jury meetings, committee meet-
 2870               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                r Qfo 1 4 1 0

  ings, or when appointed by the foreman of a grand jury to
  make individual investigations, five dollars ($5) a day. In
  justice courts in civil cases, jurors shall receive for each day's
  attendance, three dollars ($3). In justice courts and in crim-
  inal cases jurors shall receive for each day's attendance, three
  dollars ($3). Grand jurors and trial jurors in superior courts
  and municipal courts shall receive twenty cents ($0.20) for
  each mile actually and necessarily traveled from their resi-
  dences to the places of service, in going only, mileage to be
  allowed but once in any one day, during any session of the
  court where the jurors serve; all other jurors shall receive ten
  cents ($0.10) per mile. The fees of all trial jurors in civil
  cases shall be paid by the litigants as other costs are paid.
     SEC. 2. Section 28106 of the Government Code is amended
  to read:
     28106. In a county of the sixth class the following shall re-
  ceive as compensation for the services required of them by law
  or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
      (a) Each supervisor, fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) a
 year.
     (b) Grand jurors and trial jurors in the superior courts
  shall receive three dollars ($3) for each day's attendance and
 mileage at the rate of fifteen cents ($0.15) a mile for each mile
  necessarily traveled in attending court, in going only. In crim-
  inal cases the fees and mileage of trial jurors in the superior
  court shall be paid out of the general fund of the county on
 warrants drawn by the county auditor upon the written order
  of the judge of the court in which the juror was in attendance.
     SEC. 3. Section 28107 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
    28107. In a county of the seventh class the officers shall
 receive as compensation for the services required of them by
 law or by virtue of their offices the salaries and fees fixed
 pursuant to the charter of the county, except that the follow-
 ing shall receive as compensation for such services the follow-
 ing sums:
     (a) The chairman of the board of supervisors, sixteen thou-
 sand five hundred dollars ($16,500), and each other supervisor,
 fourteen thousand dollars ($14,000), and his necessary ex-
 penses when attending to the business of the county, other
 than the meetings of the board, and ten cents ($0.10) a mile
 in traveling to and from his residence to the county seat. Not
more than one mileage claim at any one regular or special
 meeting of the board shall be allowed.
    (b) For attending as a grand juror for each day's attend-
ance, including each day's attendance at committee meetings
and investigations upon the order of the grand jury, five dol-
lars ($5) ; as a juror in the superior court, for each day's
attendance, five dollars ($5). For each mile actually traveled
in attending court as a juror, ten cents ($0.10) ; for attending
meetings of the grand jury, committee meetings or investiga-
tions, necessary expenses and ten cents ($0.10) for each mile
                    1969
Ch. 14101                  REGULAR SESSION                  2871

actually traveled. The grand jury may order members to act
as committees thereof and to conduct investigations on its
behalf.
   The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
to incumbent officers.
   Supervisors serving as members of the local agency forma-
tion commission of the county shall be entitled to the per diem
allowances and reimbursement of expenses authorized for such
services pursuant to Section 54783 of this code. Supervisors
serving as members of governing boards of special districts
within the county shall be entitled to reimbursement of ex-
penses authorized for duties performed for such districts pur-
suant to the principal acts of such special districts.
   SEC. 4. Section 28111 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28111. In a county of the 11th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
   (a) The auditor ten thousand dollars ($10,000) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, twenty-three thousand dollars
 ($23,000) a year. He shall devote his entire time during office
hours to the work of the county and the state and is pro-
hibited from engaging in private work within office hours.
   (c) The chairman of the board of supervisors, thirteen
thousand seven hundred dollars ($13,700) a year, and each
other supervisor, eleven thousand three hundred dollars
 ($11,300) a year, for all services. I n addition, each member
who uses a privately owned automobile in the discharge of
necessary official duties as supervisor shall be paid for the
use of the automobile the following sums:
    (1) In supervisorial districts containing five hundred (500)
miles of road or less, fifty dollars ($50) a month.
    (2) In supervisorial districts containing more than five hun-
 dred (500) miles, but less than seven hundred fifty (750)
miles of road, seventy-five dollars ($75) a month.
    (3) In supervisorial districts containing road mileage in
 excess of seven hundred fifty (750) miles, one hundred dol-
lars ($100) a month.
    (d) Grand jurors and trial jurors in the superior court,
municipal court, and justice courts, five dollars ($5) a day
while engaged in the performance of the duties required of
 them by law, including committee meetings of the grand jury,
 and mileage at the rate of fifteen cents ($0.15) per mile one
way only.
   The county officers provided for in this section shall receive
 as compensation for the services required of them by law or
by virtue of their offices, the salaries and expenses set forth,
 except that the members of the board of supervisors, auditor,
 and district attorney shall be allowed all actual expenses which
 are necessary to the performance of their duties. The expenses
 and the salaries designated in this section for such officers,
2872              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qfo 1 4 1 0

except as specifically provided, shall be full and complete com-
pensation for giving their entire time and attention to the
duties required of them by law or which are for any reason
imposed upon or performed by them under the laws of or on
behalf of the United States, this state, any political subdivision
thereof, or any public corporation.
   All other fees, statutory mileage, or other remuneration or
compensation of any kind or character received by such officers
or their deputies from the United States, this state, any
political subdivision thereof, or any public corporation shall
be paid into the county treasury, except that this requirement
does not apply to that portion of any fees collected which is
authorized by statute to be paid to other persons or is neces-
sarily diverted to other persons for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the statute.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 28112 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28112. I n a county of the 12th class the following shall re-
ceive as full compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, twenty-four thousand three hun-
dred thirty-six dollars ($24,336) a year and actual traveling
expenses while away from his office on county business. He
shall hold no other county office.
   (c) Bach supervisor, twelve thousand five hundred dollars
 ($12,500) a year, and his actual traveling expenses from his
residence to the place of meeting of the board at the county
seat when attending board meetings and the necessary actual
expenses incurred by him while engaged in county business.
Bach supervisor shall be available for the performance of the
duties of his office at all times during county business hours.
Bach supervisor shall spend one day in each week, other than
the day the board is officially in session, at the office of the
board in the county courthouse. The particular day which each
supervisor shall be on duty shall be determined by unanimous
agreement of the board, or if they do not agree then by lot,
so that a supervisor will be on duty on Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday of each week.
    (d) For acting as a grand juror, each juror shall be paid
for each day's attendance upon regularly called grand jury
meetings, committee meetings, or when appointed by the fore-
man of the grand jury to make individual investigations, six
dollars ($6) a day and ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually
traveled in the performance of such duties, together with other
actual and necessary expenses. No mileage shall be allowed for
traveling outside of the county.
   Trial jurors in the superior court, municipal court and jus-
tice courts shall receive for each day's required attendance in
court, five dollars ($5), and eight cents ($0.08) for each mile
from their residence to and from the place where the court is
                    1969
Ch. 14101                  REGULAR   SESSION               2873

held, to be allowed only for each day the jurors are required
to and do attend.
   SEC. 5. Section 28113 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28113. In a county of the 13th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their office the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, fifteen thousand sis hundred dollars ($15,-
600) a year and his necessary expenses incurred while travel-
ing in the performance of his official duties. He shall pay into
the county treasury all fees and commissions or compensations
received by him in his official capacity, other than his official
salary.
   (b) The district attorney, twenty-seven thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($27,500) a year and the necessary expenses in-
curred in the discharge of his official duties. All fees and
commissions or compensations, other than his official salary,
received by him in his official capacity from any source shall
be paid into the county treasury. He shall devote his entire
time during office hours to the work of the county and the
state and is prohibited from engaging in private work during
his term of office, which prohibition shall also apply to his
deputies, while so employed.
   (c) Each supervisor, fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) a
year and actual and necessary expenses incurred in the per-
formance of the duties of his office.
   (d) Each member of the grand jury shall be allowed six
dollars ($6) for each day's attendance upon sessions of the
grand jury, or for each day's attendance as a member of any
committee of the grand jury even though a full quorum of
the grand jury as a whole be not present, and mileage, at the
rate payable to officers and employees of such county, for each
mile actually and necessarily traveled in attending meetings
of the grand jury which are held within the county, or any
session of a grand jury committee duly called by the foreman
of the grand jury or chairman of the committee.
   For attending as a trial juror, in the superior court for each
day's actual attendance, five dollars ($5), and fifteen cents
 ($0.15) for each mile actually traveled in going only.
   For attending as a trial juror, in the municipal court for
each day's actual attendance, five dollars ($5), and fifteen
 cents ($0.15) for each mile actually traveled in going only.
   For attending as a trial juror in criminal cases m justice
 courts, three dollars ($3), for each day of actual service as a
 juror.
   The judge of the court shall make an order directing the
 auditor to draw his warrant in favor of the juror for the per
 diem and mileage and the treasurer shall pay the warrant.
    SEC. 6. Section 28114 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
2874              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             TQJj_ J 4 J Q

   28114. In a county of the 14th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, thirteen thousand dollars ($13,000) a
year.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-six thousand four hun-
dred dollars ($26,400) a year. He shall not engage in the
private practice of law.
    (c) Bach supervisor, thirteen thousand two hundred dollars
 ($13,200) a year and actual and necessary expenses, including
expenses for meals, incurred in the performance of the duties
of his office. I n addition, each member who uses a privately
owned automobile in the discharge of necessary official duties
 as supervisor shall be paid the sum of ten cents ($0.10) per
mile to reimburse him for the use of said automobile. In lieu
of mileage, automobiles may be provided and maintained by
the county and assigned to the supervisors for the perform-
ance of their duties. The chairman of the board of super-
visors shall receive, as additional compensation, one thousand
eight hundred dollars ($1,800) a year for services rendered
 as chairman.
    (d) For attendance in the superior court each trial juror
shall be allowed five dollars ($5) for each days' attendance,
and mileage at the rate of ten cents ($0.10) for each mile
actually and necessarily traveled in attending upon and re-
turning from court, mileage to be computed for daily attend-
ance, irrespective of whether the daily attendance covers one
or more sessions of court.
   Each member of the grand jury shall be allowed five dollars
 ($5) for each day in attendance upon the sessions of the grand
jury or for each day's service as a member of any committee
of the grand jury and mileage at the rate of ten cents ($0.10)
for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in attendance
upon and returning from meetings to the grand jury, or any
session of the grand jury committee, duly called by the secre-
 tary, or committee chairman.
   The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
to incumbent officers.
   SEC. 6.1. Section 28115 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   28115. In a county of the 15th class the following shall
receive as full compensation for the services required of them
by law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, nineteen thousand three hundred fifty
 dollars ($19,350) a year. The auditor shall devote his full
 working time to the duties of his office.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-eight thousand six hun-
 dred eighty dollars ($28,680) a year, and his actual traveling
 expenses while away from his office on county business. The
 district attorney may be assigned an automobile or compen-
 sated at a mileage rate designated in the salary ordinance for
                    1969
Ch. 1410]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2875

employees using personal automobiles on official business. He
shall not personally engage in private law practice.
    (c) Each supervisor, thirteen thousand two hundred dol-
lars ($13,200) a year and his necessary expenses when attend-
ing to the business of the county. When traveling in his own
car on county business he shall receive nine cents ($0.09) for
each mile actually traveled.
    (d) For acting as a grand juror for each day's attendance
upon regularly called grand jury meetings, committee meet-
ings, or when appointed by the foreman of a grand jury to
make individual investigations, five dollars ($5). For every
mile actually traveled as a grand juror in attending court,
grand jury meetings, regularly called committee meetings, or
when properly appointed by the foreman of the grand jury
to make individual investigations, nine cents ($0.09) for each
mile actually traveled.
    SEC. 7. Section 28117 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    28117. In a county of the 17th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices, the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, seventeen thousand four hundred dollars
 ($17,400) a year. He shall devote his full working time to the
 duties of his office.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-four thousand dollars
 ($24,000) a year for all services. He shall devote his entire
time during office hours to the duties of his office and shall not
 engage in private law practice during his term of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, for all services required of him as
supervisor, twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) a year and his
 actual and necessary expenses and mileage incurred in the
performance of any of the duties of his office. He may elect to
use his own automobile or an automobile furnished by the
 county for use in all official business of the county requiring
 automobile travel. If he elects to use his own automobile for
 all such official business, then he shall receive nine cents
 ($0.09) for each mile actually traveled. If he elects to use an
 automobile furnished by the county, then all expenses for fuel,
 oil, supplies, upkeep and maintenance of such county auto-
 mobile shall be paid from the county funds, and he shall not re-
 ceive any reimbursement for mileage.
     (d) Grand jurors, for each day's attendance including each
 day's attendance at committee meetings, upon the order of the
 grand jury, six dollars ($6), trial jurors in the superior court,
 six dollars ($6), and trial jurors in the justice court, six dol-
 lars ($6) for each day's attendance. In addition, for attending
 court as a juror, or for attending meetings of the grand jury
 or its committee meetings, necessary expenses and ten cents
  ($0.10) for each mile actually traveled.
     SEC. 8. Section 28118 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
2876               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Gh. 1410

    28118. In a county of the 18th class the following shall
 receive as compensation for the services required of them by
 law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
     (a) The county auditor, twelve thousand dollars ($12,000)
  a year.
     (b) The district attorney, twenty-one thousand dollars
  ($21,000) a year. He shall devote his entire time to the duties
  of his office and shall not engage in the private practice of law
  during his term in office.
     (c) Bach supervisor, ten thousand eight hundred dollars
  ($10,800) a year for all personal services performed by him
 as supervisor and member of the board of equalization, and
 his actual and necessary traveling expenses incurred in per-
 forming any of the duties of his office, the claim for which
 shall be allowed and paid out of the county general fund in
 the same manner as other claims are allowed and paid. The
 traveling expenses exclusive of meals and hotel accommoda-
 tions shall not exceed ten cents ($0.10) a mile.
     (d) Each member of the grand jury shall be allowed four
 dollars ($4) for each day in attendance upon the sessions of
 the grand jury or for each day's active and necessary service
 as a member of any committee of the grand jury. Each grand
 juror shall be allowed mileage at the rate of five cents ($0.05)
 a mile for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in at-
tendance upon and returning from meetings of the grand jury
 or any actual or necessary session of a grand jury committee
duly called by ,the secretary or committee chairman, but no
mileage shall be allowed outside of the county. For attending
as a trial juror in a criminal action in the superior court,
three dollars ($3) per day if called but not sworn to try the
cause, and four dollars ($4) per day if called and sworn to
try the cause. For attending as a trial juror in a civil action
in the superior court, four dollars ($4) per day if called but
not sworn to try the cause and five dollars ($5) per day if
called and sworn to try the cause. For attending as a trial
juror in the justice court for each juror sworn to try the
cause, two dollars ($2) a day. For each mile actually traveled
in attending court as a juror, seven cents ($0.07) a mile each
way from the place of residence to the court.
    SEC. 8.5. Section 28119 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    28119. In a county of the 19th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, ten thousand two hundred dollars ($10,-
200) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-two thousand eight hun-
dred dollars ($22,800) a year, and he shall not engage in pri-
vate practice.
    (c) Each supervisor, nine thousand dollars ($9,000) a year
and mileage at the rate of ten cents ($0.10) for each mile
                    1969
Ch. 1410]                  REGULAR SESSION                2877

traveled to and from the meetings of the board. Only one
mileage at any one session of the board shall be allowed. The
county may furnish automobiles to the supervisors for use
on any trips taken in performance of their official duties for
which mileage would otherwise be allowed. All expenses for
fuel, oil, supplies, upkeep, and maintenance of the automobiles
shall be paid from county funds. The use of automobiles is
in lieu of any other mileage.
    (d) Grand jurors shall receive five dollars ($5) for each
day's attendance and trial jurors in the superior court shall
receive five dollars ($5) for each day's attendance. Grand
jurors and trial jurors in the superior court shall receive
ten cents ($0.10) for each mile from their residences
to the county seat, to be allowed for each day the jurors are
required to and do attend. For attending as a member of a
committee of the grand jury, for each day's attendance on
the committee, five dollars ($5) and mileage at the rate of ten
cents ($0.10) a mile. The court shall make an order directing
the auditor to draw his warrant on the county treasury for the
amounts due, and the auditor, unless otherwise specifically
ordered, shall draw warrants on the 1st and 15th days of each
month, and the treasurer shall pay the warrants.
    SEC. 9. Section 28120 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    28120. In a county of the 20th class the following shall re-
ceive as compensation for services required of them by law or
by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, nineteen thousand eight hundred dollars
 ($19,800) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-four thousand dollars
 ($24,000) a year. He shall devote his entire time to the duties
of his office, and shall not engage in private law practice.
    (c) Each supervisor, including the chairman, sixteen thou-
sand dollars ($16,000) a year for all services required by law
 or by virtue of the office, and to each supervisor seven cents
  ($0.07) a mile in traveling to and from his place of residence
 to the courthouse on each day of a board meeting.
    Each member of the board of supervisors shall devote his
 entire time, during the business hours of the day, to the
 duties of his office.
    Any supervisor when required to travel within or without
 the county on official business of the county may use or travel
 in any vehicle owned and maintained by the county for official
 purposes. When traveling on official business the expense of
 maintenance and upkeep of such automobiles and of all neces-
 sary supplies shall be borne by the county.
     (d) The fees for jurors shall be as follows:
    For each day's attendance as a trial juror in the superior
 court, or in a justice court in civil and criminal cases, six
 dollars ($6) per day.
2878              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Qfa 1410

    For each mile actually and necessarily traveled each day in
 attending court as a juror and returning therefrom, seven and
 one-half cents ($0,075).
   For acting as a grand juror each juror shall be paid for each
day's attendance upon regularly called grand jury meetings,
committee meetings, or when appointed by the foreman of
the grand jury to make individual investigations, five dollars
 ($5), and ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually traveled.
A grand juror excused at his own request is not entitled to a
per diem fee, but is entitled to mileage, ten cents ($0.10) for
each mile actually and necessarily traveled.
    The compensation provided for by this section shall be paid
to incumbent officers.
    SEC. 9.5. Section 28121 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    28121. In a county of the 21st class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
 law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, twenty-three thousand twenty dollars
 ($23,020) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-eight thousand dollars
 ($28,000) a year.
    He shall devote his entire time to the duties of his office
 and shall not engage in private law practice during his term
of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, one thousand dollars ($1,000) a month
and twelve cents ($0.12) for each mile necessarily and actually
traveled in attending meetings of the board or in the discharge
of county business within the county.
    Each supervisor shall be allowed his actual and necessary
expenses incurred while engaged in county business.
    (d) Trial jurors, five dollars ($5) per day.
    (e) Each grand juror, five dollars ($5) per day for each
day's attendance upon regularly called grand jury meetings,
committee meetings, or when appointed by the foreman of the
grand jury to make individual investigations, and eight cents
 ($0.08) for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in the
performance of such duties.
   SEC. 10. Section 28123 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   28123. In a county of the 23rd class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-two thousand dollars
($22,000) a year. He shall devote his entire time during office
hours to the duties of his office and shall not engage in private
law practice.
    (c) Each supervisor, nine thousand six hundred dollars
 ($9,600) a year, necessary traveling expenses incurred in the
performance of his official duties, and mileage at ten cents
                   1969
Ch. 1410]                 REGULAR SESSION                 2879

($0.10) a mile for all distances traveled by him as supervisor,
mileage not to exceed in any one year one thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($1,500) for each supervisor.
    (d) The fees of grand jurors are five dollars ($5) for each
day's attendance, and mileage at the rate of fifteen cents
($0.15) for each mile necessarily traveled in attending court,
in going only. The fees of trial jurors in the superior courts
are five dollars ($5) for each day's attendance and mileage
at the rate of fifteen cents ($0.15) for each mile necessarily
traveled in attending court, in going only. The fees of jurors
in justice courts are three dollars ($3) for each day's attend-
ance and mileage at the rate of fifteen cents ($0.15) for each
mile necessarily traveled in attending the court, in going only.
   In criminal cases the fees and mileage of all trial jurors
shall be paid by the treasurer of the county out of the general
fund of the county upon warrants drawn by the county audi-
tor upon the written order of the judge of the court in which
the jury was in attendance.
    The fees of jurors on coroner's juries are two dollars ($2)
for each day's attendance, to be paid out of the general fund
of the county upon the presentation and filing with the board
of supervisors of a duly verified claim, proper allowance of
the claim by the board, and the approval of the coroner.
    SEC. 10.1. Section 28124 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
    28124. In a county of the 24th class the following shall
 receive as compensation for their services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) a year.
 He shall also perform the duties of controller. When required
by the board of supervisors to compile an annual statistical
 report, he shall receive one hundred fifty dollars ($150) from
 the general fund of the county as compensation for compiling
 the report.
     (b) The district attorney, nineteen thousand two hundred
 dollars ($19,200) a year. He shall not engage in private law
 practice and shall devote all his time and attention during
 business hours to the duties of his office.
     (c) Bach supervisor, nine thousand dollars ($9,000) a year
 for all services performed by him as supervisor and as a mem-
 ber of the board of equalization. No mileage allowance is nec-
 essary as the county furnishes automobiles for the use of
 supervisors.
     (d) For each day's attendance as a grand juror or a trial
 juror in the superior court, three dollars ($3) a day; for each
 mile traveled in attending court as such juror, twelve cents
  ($0.12), in going only.
    A grand juror, when attending as a member of a regularly
 constituted committee or subcommittee of the grand jury, shall
 receive the same per diem and mileage as is allowed for at-
 tending court.
    91—1954
2880               S*ATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qfr. 1410

    The compensation provided by this section shall be paid to
 incumbent officers.
    SEC. 11. Section 28125 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
    28125. In a county of the 25th class the following shall
 receive as compensation for the services required of them by
 law or by virtue of their offices the following salaries and
 fees:
     (a) The auditor, fifteen thousand two hundred dollars ($15,-
 200) a year.
     (b) The district attorney, twenty-one thousand six hundred
 dollars ($21,600) a year. He shall not engage in the private
 practice of law.
    (c) Each member of the board of supervisors, nine thousand
 dollars ($9,000) a year. Each supervisor shall also be furnished
 with necessary transportation while engaged in the business of
 the county. Whenever it is necessary for any supervisor to
 leave the county for the purpose of performing any of his
 duties, he shall be allowed his actual expenses.
    (d) Grand jurors and trial jurors in the superior court
 shall receive three dollars ($3) for each day's attendance, and
 ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually and necessarily trav-
 eled from their residence to the county seat, in going only, to
 be allowed but once during each session the jurors are required
 to attend.
    Any officer entitled to receive mileage for distances traveled
 by him in the discharge of his official duties shall receive mile-
 age at the rate of ten cents ($0.10) a mile traveled.
    The salaries and fees provided in this section are in full
 compensation for all services of every kind and description
 rendered by the officers named, either as officers or ex officio
 officers, their deputies and assistants. All fees, commissions,
 per diem, and expenses provided for by law, and all other
money coming into the hands of the officers mentioned, no
matter from what source derived or received, shall be the
property of the county, and shall be paid into the county
treasury by such officers at the same time and in the same
manner that other money is required by law to be paid into
the county treasury, except, that the district attorney is ex-
pressly exempted from this provision, and shall receive the
salaries, fees, and commissions, provided by law.
   The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
to incumbent officers.
   SEC. 12. Section 28127 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28127. In a county of the 27th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, nine thousand seven hundred sixty-eight
dollars* ($9,768) a year.
                    1969
Ch. 1410]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2881

    (b) The district attorney, twenty-two thousand dollars
($22,000) a year. He shall devote his entire time during
office hours to the work of the county and state and is pro-
hibited from engaging in private work within office hours.
This does not preclude him from continuing or concluding
any private matter in which he appeared of record prior to
taking office.
    (c) Each supervisor, for all services required of him as
supervisor nine thousand dollars ($9,000) a year and his actual
expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of county
business within the county, not to exceed ten cents ($0.10) a
mile, and actual expenses incurred doing county business out-
side of the county on order of the board of supervisors. He
shall also be allowed ten cents ($0.10) a mile going to and
from his residence to the courthouse to attend regular and
special meetings of the board. I n lieu of mileage allowed as
a member of the board of supervisors, the chairman of the
board shall be supplied by the county with an automobile for
use in performance of official duties, and all expenses for
fuel, oil, supplies, upkeep, and maintenance of such automobile
shall be paid from county funds.
   Each juror, for acting as a grand juror for each day's at-
tendance upon regularly called grand jury meetings, commit-
tee meetings, or when appointed by the foreman of the grand
jury to make individual investigations, seven dollars ($7), and
ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually traveled in the per-
formance of such duties.
   Each juror, for acting as a trial juror in criminal or civil
cases for each day's attendance for trial, seven dollars ($7),
and ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually and necessarily
traveled from their residence to and from the superior court
or justice court.
   Mileage shall be allowed grand jurors and trial jurors but
once for each day they are required to and do attend. No
mileage shall be allowed for traveling outside of the county.
   SEC. 13. Section 28130 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    28130. In counties of the 30th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their office, the following sums:
    1. The auditor, twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) a year.
   2. The district attorney, twenty-one thousand dollars ($21,-
000) a year and he shall not engage in private law practice
during his term of office.
    3. Each supervisor, seven thousand eight hundred dollars
 ($7,800) a year for all services performed by him as super-
visor and member of the board of equalization, and the use
of county automobiles in connection with the performance of
official duties.
   4. Grand jurors and trial jurors in the superior court in
civil and criminal cases, shall receive as compensation for each
2882              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfa 1410

day's attendance, per day, five dollars ($5); and trial jurors
for each mile actually and necessarily traveled in attendance
 as such in going only, per mile, twenty-five cents ($0.25); and
grand jurors for each mile actually and necessarily traveled
in attendance as such in going only, per mile, fifteen cents
 ($0.15).
    If it is not legally competent to pay the compensation pro-
vided by this act to incumbent officers on the effective date of
the 1955 amendment of this section, such increase in. compen-
sation shall nevertheless be payable to the officers designated
in this section as soon as it is legally competent to do so.
    SEC. 14. Section 28131 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    28131. In any county of the 31st class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, thirteen thousand five hundred dollars
 ($13,500) a year, which shall include compensation for the
compilation of the annual financial report and classified an-
nual payroll of the county.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty-one thousand dollars
 ($21,000) a year. He shall devote full time to the duties of
district attorney and shall not engage in private practice of
law during his term of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, eight thousand four hundred dollars
 ($8,400) a year and ten cents ($0.10) for each mile necessarily
traveled in the performance of his official duties. The chair-
man of the board of supervisors may receive twenty-five cents
 ($0.25) a mile, one way, between his residence and the county
seat, when attending at the county seat for the single purpose
of counting the money in the county treasury as required by
law.
    (d) Trial jurors in the superior court and the justice courts
shall receive five dollars ($5) for each day's attendance and ten
cents ($0.10) per mile for each mile necessarily traveled in
such attendance. Grand jurors shall receive six dollars ($6) for
each day's attendance on regularly called grand j u r y meetings
and ten cents ($0.10) per mile for each mile necessarily trav-
eled in attendance on regularly called grand jury meetings and
meetings of grand jury committees of which the juror is a
member.
   SEC. 15. Section 28132 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28132. In a county of the 32nd class the following officers
shall receive as compensation for the services required of them
by law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, thirteen thousand dollars ($13,000) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, twenty thousand five hundred
dollars ($20,500) a year. He shall not during his term of
office engage in private practice and he shall devote his full
working time to the duties of his office.
                    1969
Ch. 1410]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2883

    (c) Bach supervisor, eight thousand two hundred dollars
 ($8,200) a year, for all services rendered as supervisor and
as member of the board of equalization. He shall also receive
his reasonable expenses, including expenses for meals, incurred
when attending meetings of the board and on county busi-
ness both within and without the county. Each supervisor,
in addition to his other expenses, shall receive ten cents
 ($0.10) a mile in traveling to and from his residence to
the place of meeting of the board at the county seat and when
traveling within and without the county on county business;
provided, that the supervisor may use automobiles provided
and maintained by the county for such travel, in which case
the mileage allowance provided for above shall not be allowed.
   (d) Trial jurors in the superior court shall receive six dol-
lars ($6) for each day's attendance and ten cents ($0.10) for
each mile actually and necessarily traveled for attending upon
and returning from court, such mileage to be computed for
each day's attendance.
   Each member of the grand jury shall be allowed seven dol-
lars ($7) for each day in attendance upon the sessions of the
grand jury or for each day's active and necessary service as
a member of any committee of the grand jury. Each grand
juror shall be allowed mileage at the rate of ten cents ($0.10)
a mile for each mile actually traveled in attendance upon and
returning from meetings of the grand jury or any actual or
necessary session of a grand jury committee duly called by
the secretary or committee chairman, but no mileage shall be
allowed outside of the county.
   SEC. 16. Section 28133 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28133. In a county of the 33rd class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, eighteen thousand six hundred
 dollars ($18,600) a year. He shall devote his entire time
during office hours to the duties of his office and shall not
 engage in private law practice during his term of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, eleven thousand four hundred dollars
 ($11,400) a year. He shall also receive ten cents ($0.10) a mile
 for travel related to the work of the board of supervisors. I n
 addition to mileage each member of the board shall receive
 his other actual travel expenses incurred by him while travel-
 ing on the work of the board of supervisors.
    (d) Grand jurors and trial jurors in the superior court shall
receive three dollars ($3) for the first day's attendance, and
six dollars ($6) thereafter, and twenty cents ($0.20) for each
mile actually and necessarily traveled from their residences
to the place of service, in going only, to be allowed but once
during any one session of the court or grand jury. Jurors in
justice courts and coroner's inquests shall receive two dollars
2884               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                I (J}L 1410

 ($2) for each day's attendance, and ten cents ($0.10) for each
mile actually and necessarily traveled from their residences to
the place of service, in going only. The fees of trial jurors in
civil cases shall be paid by the litigants, as other costs are paid.
   The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
to incumbent officers.
   SEC. 17. Section 28134 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   28134. I n a county of the 34th class the following shall re-
ceive as compensation for the services required of them by law
or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, ten thousand eight hundred dollars
 ($10,800) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, sixteen thousand dollars ($16,-
000) a year. The district attorney shall devote his entire time
during office hours to the work of the county and state and is
prohibited from engaging in private work within such office
hours ;< however, this shall not be construed to preclude the
district attorney from continuing or concluding any matter in
which he has appeared of record prior to October 1, 1949.
    (c) Each supervisor, eight thousand four hundred dollars
 ($8,400) a year in full for all services performed by him as
 supervisor, member of the board of equalization, and in any
 other capacity, and all actual and necessary traveling ex-
 penses when traveling on county business. The chairman of the
board of supervisors shall receive six hundred dollars ($600)
 a year as additional compensation for services rendered as
 chairman. The traveling expenses, exclusive of meals and hotel
accommodations, shall not exceed ten cents ($0.10) per mile.
   (d) Trial jurors in the superior court, for each day's at-
tendance, six dollars ($6). In justice courts, the jurors sworn
to try the case shall receive for each day's attendance three
dollars ($3). Each trial juror shall receive mileage at the rate
of seven cents ($0.07) each way for each mile actually traveled
in attending court, except that in justice courts mileage shall
be allowed only to those jurors sworn to t r y the case.
   (e) Grand jurors, for each day's attendance at regular ses-
sions of the grand jury or of any regularly constituted commit-
tee or subcommittee thereof, or when appointed in writing by
the foreman of the grand jury to make individual investiga-
tions, six dollars ($6). A juror excused at his own request is
not entitled to a per diem fee. Each juror driving his own
automobile upon jury business, or in attendance upon meetings
of the jury or committees thereof, shall receive mileage at the
rate of seven cents ($0.07) each way for every mile actually
and necessarily traveled. Said claims for per diem, for mileage
and any incidental expenses incurred by jurors pursuant to
the exercise of their official duties (excluding meal expense)
shall be paid out of the general fund of the county by the
county treasurer upon warrants drawn by the county auditor
upon the written order of the judge of the superior court.
                     1969
Ch. 14101                   REGULAR SESSION                  2885

   SEC. 18. Section 28138 of the Government Code is
 amended to read:
   28138. In a county of the 38th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, thirteen thousand two hundred dollars
 ($13,200) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000)
a year. He shall devote his entire time during office hours to the
duties of his office and shall not engage in private law practice
during his term of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, six thousand dollars ($6,000) a year
and. mileage at the rate of twenty cents ($0.20) a mile for
the distance usually traveled in going from his home to the
county seat and returning when attending meetings of the
board of supervisors.
   (d) Grand jurors and trial jurors in the superior court
shall receive five dollars ($5) for each day's attendance in
court, upon regularly called jury meetings, committee meet-
ings, or when appointed by the foreman of a grand jury to
make individual investigations, and twenty cents ($0.20) for
each mile actually and necessarily traveled from their resi-
dences to the places of service, in going only. Trial jurors in
the justice court shall receive five dollars ($5) for each day's
attendance and twenty cents ($0.20) for each mile actually
and necessarily traveled from their residences to the justice
courts, in going only.
   SEC. 19. Section 28139 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28139. In a county of the 39th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, fourteen thousand dollars ($14,000) a
year.
   (b) The district attorney, nineteen thousand nine hundred
ninety-two dollars ($19,992) a year. He shall not engage in
private law practice during his term of office.
   (c) Each supervisor, seven thousand eight hundred dollars
 ($7,800) a year and ten cents ($0.10) a mile: (1) each way,
for traveling to and from his residence to the courthouse while
going to or returning from meetings of the board of super-
visors, and (2) for each mile actually and necessarily traveled
when traveling, either within or without the county on county
business. The chairman of the board of supervisors shall re-
ceive, as additional compensation, six hundred dollars ($600)
a year for services rendered as chairman.
   (d) Grand jurors and all trial jurors in the superior courts,
for each day's attendance six dollars ($6), and fifteen cents
 ($0.15) for each mile actually traveled, in going only. The
judge of the court shall make an order directing the auditor
to draw his warrant in favor of the juror for the per diem
and mileage and the treasurer shall pay the warrant.
2886              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^   141Q

   SEC. 20. Section 28141 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28141. In a county of the 41st class the following shall re-
ceive as compensation for the services required of them by law
or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, ten thousand eight hundred twenty dollars
($10,820) a year. He shall devote his full time during office
hours to the duties of his office and shall not engage in the
private practice of accounting during his term in office.
   (b) The district attorney, twenty thousand dollars ($20,000)
a year. He shall devote his full time during office hours to the
duties of his office and shall not engage in the private practice
of law during his term of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, six thousand dollars ($6,000) a year
for all services rendered as supervisor and as member of the
board of equalization. Each supervisor shall also receive ten
cents ($0.10) a mile for each mile actually and necessarily
traveled when traveling within or without the county on
county business. In lieu of mileage, supervisors may use auto-
mobiles provided and maintained by the county in connection
with the performance of their official duties.
    (d) Trial jurors in the superior court shall receive six dol-
lars ($6) for each day's attendance and mileage at the rate of
ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually and necessarily trav-
eled from their residences to the county seat.
   (e) Grand jurors shall receive seven dollars ($7) for each
day's attendance and ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually
traveled. Grand jurors shall also receive, with the approval of
the judge of the superior court, expenses incurred by them in
the performance of their duties. The fees and mileage shall be
paid by the treasurer of the county out of the general fund of
the county upon warrants drawn by the county auditor upon
the written order of the judge of the superior court.
   The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
to incumbent officers.
   SEC. 21. Section 28147 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28147. In a county of the 47th class the following shall re-
ceive as compensation for services required of them by law or
by virtue of their offices the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, eight hundred dollars ($800) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, twelve thousand, dollars ($12,000)
a year.
   (c) Each supervisor, four thousand eight hundred dollars
 ($4,800) a year and mileage from his residence to the county
seat at each sitting of the board, at twenty-five cents ($0.25)
a mile. Each supervisor is, in addition, allowed three hundred
dollars ($300) a year to cover mileage expenses at twenty-five
cents ($0.25) a mile in viewing the roads. This salary and
mileage are in full for all services.
                     1969
Ch. 1410]                   REGULAR' SESSION                  2887

    (d) Grand jurors and trial jurors shall receive the follow-
ing fees and mileage:
    (1) Grand jurors and jurors in the superior court shall
be paid six dollars ($6) a day for each day's attendance, and
fifteen cents ($0.15) for each mile actually traveled each way
while acting as jurors. The judge of the court shall certify to
the auditor the number of days' attendance of each juror and
his mileage. The auditor shall draw his warrant on the treas-
urer in favor of each juror and the treasurer shall pay the
warrant.
    (2) Trial jurors in any justice court shall receive four dol-
lars ($4) for each day's attendance, and fifteen cents ($0.15)
for each mile actually traveled each way. The judge of the
justice court shall certify to the auditor the number of days'
attendance of each juror, and the auditor shall draw his war-
rant therefor, and the treasurer shall pay the warrant.
    (e) Witnesses legally required to appear before the grand
jury or the superior court shall receive four dollars ($4) for
each day's attendance, and ten cents ($0.10) per mile for each
mile actually traveled each day, in going only.
    (f.) Witnesses legally required, to appear in any justice court
or before a coroner's jury shall receive three dollars ($3) for
each day's attendance, and ten cents ($0.10) per mile for each
mile actually traveled each day, in going only.
   SEC. 22. Section 28149 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28149. In a county of the 49th class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, ten thousand dollars ($10,000) a year.
    (b) The district attorney, seventeen thousand dollars ($17,-
000) a year for his services. He shall devote his entire time to
the duties of his office and shall not engage in the private prac-
tice of law during his term of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, five thousand four hundred dollars
 ($5,400) a year and thirty cents ($0.30) a mile one way in
attending the meetings of the board.
    (d) Jurors shall receive the following fees and mileage:
   For attending as a grand juror or as a trial juror in the
superior court, for each day's actual attendance six dollars
 ($6), and twenty cents ($0.20) for each mile actually traveled,
in going only; for attending as a trial juror in the justice
court, in civil cases only, for each day's actual attendance five
dollars ($5), and twenty cents ($0.20) for each mile actually
traveled, in going only. The fees of jurors shall be paid to
them on each day during the period of their attendance, if
demanded, and the mileage shall be paid at the time the fee
for the first day's attendance is paid.
   SEC. 23. Section 28151 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
2888              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Q}^ 14K)

   28151. In a county of the 51st class the following shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law, or by virtue of their office, the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, two thousand four hundred dollars
($2,400) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, fourteen thousand four hundred
dollars ($14,400) a year and necessary traveling expenses to
be allowed by the board of supervisors.
   (c) Bach supervisor, six thousand dollars ($6,000) a year,
for services as member of the board of supervisors and mem-
ber of the board of equalization, and twenty cents ($0.20) a
mile, going only, in traveling from his residence to the county
seat at each session of the board. The chairman of the board
of supervisors shall receive an additional three hundred dol-
lars ($300) a year for his services as chairman.
   (d) For each day's attendance as a grand juror five dol-
lars ($5). For each day's attendance as a trial juror five dol-
lars ($5). Grand and trial jurors shall receive ten cents
 ($0.10) for each mile actually traveled each way while serv-
ing as such grand or trial juror. The county clerk shall certify
to the auditor the number of days' attendance and the number
of miles traveled by each juror. The auditor shall draw his
warrant therefor and the treasurer shall pay the warrant.
   The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
to incumbent officers.
   SEC. 24. Section 28153 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   28153. In a county of the 53rd class the county officers shall
receive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, six thousand dollars ($6,000) a year, and
his actual expenses incurred while attending to the business
of the county. The auditor shall also receive mileage at the rate
of ten cents ($0.10) a mile for mileage actually traveled in
attending to such business.
    (b) The district attorney, nine thousand dollars ($9,000) a
year.
   (e) Each supervisor, four hundred fifty dollars ($450) a
month and his actual expenses while attending regular, special
and adjourned meetings of the board of supervisors and while
attending to the business of the county by the order of the
board of supervisors, and mileage at the rate of twenty cents
 ($0.20) a mile, one way, for mileage actually traveled to attend
regular, special and adjourned meetings of the board of super-
visors, and at the rate of ten cents ($0.10) a mile while attend-
ing to the business of the county by the order of the board of
supervisors.
   (d) Grand jurors, six dollars ($6), and trial jurors in the
superior courts, five dollars ($5), for each day's attendance
and mileage at the rate of twenty-five cents ($0.25) for each
mile necessarily traveled in attending court, in going only. In
                     1969
Ch. 1410]                   REGULAR SESSION                 2889

 the justice courts the jurors shall receive five dollars ($5) for
 each day's attendance and twenty-five cents ($0.25) for each
 mile necessarily traveled in attending court, in going only. In
 criminal cases the fees and mileage of jurors shall be paid by
 the treasurer out of the general fund of the county upon war-
rants drawn by the auditor upon the written order of the
judge of the court in which the jurors were in attendance, and
 the treasurer shall pay the warrant.
     SEC. 25. Section 28155 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
     28155. In a county of the 55th class the following shall
 receive as compensation for the services required of them by
 law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
     (a) The auditor, four thousand five hundred dollars
  ($4,500) a year.
     (b) The district attorney, twelve thousand dollars ($12,000)
 a year.
     (c) Each supervisor, four thousand eight hundred dollars
  ($4,800) a year, for all services required of him by law in any
 capacity, and ten cents ($0.10) a mile (1) for each mile
 actually and necessarily traveled when traveling within or
 without the county on county business. (2) In lieu of mileage,
 supervisors may use automobiles provided and maintained by
-the county in connection with the performance of their official
 duties.
     (d) Grand jurors shall be paid seven dollars ($7) a day,
 and jurors in the superior court shall be paid six dollars ($6)
 for each day's attendance. Grand and trial jurors shall receive
 ten cents ($0.10) for each mile actually traveled each way
 while serving as such grand or trial juror. The county clerk
 shall certify to the auditor the number of days' attendance
 and the number of miles traveled by each juror. The auditor
 shall draw his warrant for the fees and mileage due the juror,
  and the treasurer shall pay the warrant.
     The compensation provided by this section shall be payable
 to incumbent officers.
     SEC. 26. Section 28157 of the Government Code is amended
 to read:
     28157. In a county of the 57th class the following shall re-
  ceive as compensation for the services required of them by law
  or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
      (a) The auditor, eleven thousand nine hundred eighty-eight
  dollars ($11,988) a year.
      (b) The district attorney, seventeen thousand two hundred
  eighty dollars ($17,280) a year. He shall devote his entire time
  to the duties of his office, and shall not engage in the private
  practice of law during his term of office.
      (c) Bach supervisor, four thousand eight hundred dollars
   ($4,800) a year and twenty cents ($0.20) a mile one way to
  board meetings.
 2890              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qj. 14H

   (d) Jurors' fees shall be as follows: for each day's attend-
ance as a grand juror or trial juror in the superior court
ten dollars ($10), and twenty cents ($0.20) for each mile
actually traveled in attending court as such juror, in going
only. The county clerk shall certify to the auditor the number
of days' attendance and number of miles traveled by each
juror. The auditor shall draw his warrant therefor, and the
treasurer shall pay the warrant.
   SEC. 26.5. Section 28158 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   28158. I n a county of the 58th class the following shall re-
ceive as compensation for the services required of them by
law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
   (a) The auditor, three thousand five hundred dollars
 ($3,500) a year.
   (b) The district attorney, seven thousand five hundred dol-
lars ($7,500) a year.
   (c) Each supervisor, one thousand two hundred dollars
 ($1,200) a year, and twenty cents ($0.20) a mile for traveling
from his residence to the county seat, going only. Only one
mileage shall be allowed for any regular session of the board.
   (d) Bach grand juror, seven dollars ($7), and each trial
juror in the superior court five dollars ($5) for each day's
attendance, and thirty cents ($0.30) for each mile actually
traveled one way as such juror. The per diem and mileage of
the jurors shall be paid by the treasurer out of the general
fund of the county upon warrants drawn by the auditor upon
the written order of the judge of the superior court.


                        CHAPTER 1411
An act to amend Section 28153 of the Government Code, and
  to amend Section 27149 of the Streets and Highways Code,
  relating to public officers.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 27149 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   27149. Each member of the board shall receive the sum of
fifty dollars ($50) for attending each meeting of the board and
each committee meeting on different days, but no member shall
receive such compensation in excess of two thousand four hun-
dred dollars ($2,400) in any one year. Each member of the
board shall receive a sum equal to the necessary traveling ex-
penses incurred by him in the performance of his duties.
    SEC. 2. Section 28153 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
                     1969
Ch. 1412]                   REGULAR SESSION                       £891

   28153. In a county of the 53rd class the county officers
 shall receive as compensation for the services required of them
by law or by virtue of their offices the following sums:
    (a) The auditor, six thousand dollars ($6,000) a year, and
his actual expenses incurred while attending to the business
 of the county. The auditor shall also receive mileage at the
rate of ten cents ($0.10) a mile for mileage actually traveled
in attending to such business.
    (b) The district attorney, fourteen thousand five hundred
fifty-six dollars ($14,556) a year. He shall devote his entire
time to the duties of his office and shall not engage in the
private practice of law during his term of office.
    (c) Each supervisor, four hundred fifty dollars ($450) a
month and his actual expenses while attending regular, special
 and adjourned meetings of the board of supervisors and while
attending to the business of the county by the order of the
board of supervisors, and mileage at the rate of twenty cents
 ($0.20) a mile, one way, for mileage actually traveled to at-
tend regular, special and adjourned meetings of the board of
supervisors, and at the rate of ten cents ($0.10) a mile while
attending to the business of the county by the order of the
board of supervisors.
   (d) Grand jurors, six dollars ($6), and trial jurors in the
superior courts, five dollars ($5), for each day's attendance
and mileage at the rate of twenty-five cents ($0.25) for each
mile necessarily traveled in attending court, in going only. In
the justice courts the jurors shall receive five dollars ($5) for
each day's attendance and twenty-five cents ($0.25) for each
mile necessarily traveled in attending court, in going only. In
criminal cases the fees and mileage of jurors shall be paid by
the treasurer out of the general fund of the county upon war-
rants drawn by the auditor upon the written order of the
judge of the court in which the jurors were in attendance, and
the treasurer shall pay the warrant.


                        CHAPTER 1412
     An act to amend Section 1042 of the Evidence         Code,
            relating to evidence in criminal cases.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.1

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1042 of the Evidence Code is amended
to read:
   1042. (a) Except where disclosure is forbidden by an act
of the Congress of the United States, if a claim of privilege
under this article by the state or a public entity in this state
2892              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               fQJ^ 1 4 1 2

is sustained in a criminal proceeding, the presiding officer
shall make such order or finding of fact adverse to the public
entity bringing the proceeding as is required by law upon
any issue in the proceeding to which the privileged informa-
tion is material.
    (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), where a search is
made pursuant to a warrant valid on its face, the public
entity bringing a criminal proceeding is not required to reveal
to the defendant official information or the identity of an
informer in order to establish the legality of the search or the
admissibility of any evidence obtained as a result of it.
    (c) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), in any preliminary
hearing, criminal trial, or other criminal proceeding, any other-
wise admissible evidence of information communicated to a
 peace officer by a confidential informant, who is not a material
 witness to the guilt or innocence of the accused of the offense
 charged, is admissible on the issue of reasonable cause to make
 an arrest or search without requiring that the name or iden-
tity of the informant be disclosed if the judge or magistrate
is satisfied, based upon evidence produced in open court, out
 of the presence of the jury, that such information was re-
 ceived from a reliable informant and in his discretion does
 not require such disclosure.
     (d) When, in any such criminal proceeding, a party de-
 mands disclosure of the identity of the informant on the
 ground the informant is a material witness on the issue of
 guilt, the court shall conduct a hearing at which all parties
 may present evidence on the issue of disclosure. Such hearing
 shall be conducted outside the presence of the jury, if any.
During the hearing, if the privilege provided for in Section
 1041 is claimed by a person authorized to do so or if a person
 who is authorized to claim such privilege refuses to answer
 any question on the ground that the answer would tend to dis-
 close the identity of the informant, the prosecuting attorney
 may request that the court hold an in camera hearing. If such
 a request is made, the court shall hold such a hearing outside
 the presence of the defendant and his counsel. At the in
 camera hearing, the prosecution may offer evidence which
 would tend to disclose or which discloses the identity of the
 informant to aid the court in its determination whether there
is a reasonable possibility that nondisclosure might de-
 prive the defendant of a fair trial. A reporter shall be present
 at the in camera hearing. Any transcription of the proceedings
 at the in camera hearing, as well as any physical evidence
 presented at the hearing, shall be ordered sealed by the court,
 and only a court may have access to its contents. The court
 shall not order disclosure, nor strike the testimony of the wit-
 ness who invokes the privilege, nor dismiss the criminal pro-
 ceeding, if the party offering the witness refuses to disclose
 the identity of the informant, unless, based upon the evidence
 presented at the hearing held in the presence of the defendant
                     1969
Ch. 1413]                   REGULAR SESSION                   2893

and his counsel and the evidence presented at the in camera
hearing, the court concludes that there is a reasonable possi-
bility that nondisclosure might deprive the defendant of a fair
trial.

                        CHAPTER 1413
An act to amend and renumber Section 12972 of, to add Sec-
  tions 12971, 12972, 12973, 12974, 12975, 12977, and 12978
  to, and to repeal Section 12971 of, the Agricultural Code,
  relating to pesticides.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969 Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12971 of the Agricultural Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 12971 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   12971. Except as provided in Sections 12974 and 12975,
before any pesticide application is made, the applicator shall
be in possession of a written recommendation showing the fol-
lowing :
   (a) The name and dosage rate of the pesticide or pesticides
and other materials to be used.
   (b) The pest or pests to be controlled.
   (c) The owner or operator, location of and approximate
acreage to be treated.
    (d) The crops or property to be treated.
    (e) The signature and address of the person making the
recommendation and name of the business or company which
he represents.
   (f) The suggested schedule or time, if any, for the pesticide
application.
   SEC. 3. Section 12972 of the Agricultural Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
   12976. Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the direc-
tor or the commissioner, the use of any pesticides by any per-
son in pest control operations shall be in such a manner as to
prevent any substantial drift to other crops and shall not
conflict with the manufacturer's registered label or with sup-
plementary printed directions which are delivered with the
pesticides and any additional limitations applicable to local
conditions which are contained in the conditions of any permit
or the written recommendations that are issued by the director
or commissioner.
   SEC. 4. Section 12972 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   12972. No recommendation shall be in conflict with the
label or with the supplementary printed direction delivered
therewith unless authorized by the director or commissioner.
2894               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [QJj ]^4J4

   SEC. 5. Section 12973 is added to the Agricultural Code, to
read:
   12973. The party signing a written recommendation speci-
fied by Section 12971 shall deliver it, or cause it to be
delivered, to the customer or his agent, or include it to ac-
company the material on delivery, and shall send a copy, when
requested, to the agricultural commissioner in the county
in which the application is to be made, and shall retain a copy
in his own files for a period of a year.
   SEC. 6. Section 12974 is added to the Agricultural Code, to
read:
   12974. A farmer or any other person not subject to Divi-
sion 6 (commencing with Section 11401) may make an appli-
cation of a pesticide without being in possession of a written
recommendation.
   SEC. 7. Section 12975 is added to the Agricultural Code, to
read:
   12975. A person subject to Division 6 (commencing with
 Section 11401) may make an application without possession
of a written recommendation, provided he maintains records
of the information required in Section 12971, as provided in
 Section 12973.
   SEC. 8. Section 12977 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   12977. Failure of a person, as described in Sections 12974
and 12975, to possess a written recommendation shall create
a rebuttable presumption that he has assumed responsibility
for the recommendation of the application and for all of the
information relating to applications required by Section 12971.
   SEC. 9. Section 12978 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   12978. A person making a written recommendation does
not thereby incur an obligation to insure that the actual ap-
plication follows his recommendation.


                        C H A P T E E 1414
An act to amend Section 11402 of, and to add Sections 11406,
  11407, 11408, 11409, and Chapter 6 (commencing with Sec-
  tion 12001) and Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 12101)
  to Division 6 of, the Agricultural Code, relating to agricul-
  tural pest control business.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 11402 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
Ch. 1414]           1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2895

   11402. "License" means agricultural pest control license,
agricultural pest control agent license, or pesticide dealer's
license.
   SEC. 2. Section 11406 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   11406. "Agricultural pest control a g e n t " means any per-
son who, as an agent or employee of a pesticide dealer, dis-
tributor or manufacturer, sells or offers for sale any pesticide
for an agricultural use, or who, as an agent or employee of a
pesticide dealer, makes any recommendation concerning the
agricultural use of any method or device for the control of any
agricultural pest, or who, in connection with a pest control
advisory service for hire, makes any recommendation concern-
ing the agricultural use or application of any pesticide.
   SEC. 3. Section 11407 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   11407. "Pesticide dealer" means any person who is in
the business of selling or retailing pesticides directly to users
for an agricultural use as denned in Section 11408, who is in
the business of selling or retailing directly to users any method
or device for the control of agricultural pests.
   SEC. 4. Section 11408 is added to the Agricultural Code,
to read:
   11408. "Agricultural u s e " means the use of any pesticide
or method or device for the control of pests in connection with
the commercial production of any animal or plant crop. I t
excludes the sale of pesticides in properly labeled packages or
containers which are intended for home use.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 11409 of the Agricultural Code is added,
to read:
   11409. Commercial production of plant and animal crops
shall be defined in the rules and regulations referred to in Sec-
tion 12007 of this chapter.
   SEC. 5. Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 12001) is
added to Division 6 of the Agricultural Code, to read:

     CHAPTER 6.    AGRICULTURAL P E S T CONTROL AGENTS

                Article 1.   General Provisions
  12001. No person shall act in the capacity of an agricul-
tural pest control agent or shall engage or offer to engage in
the business of, advertise as or assume to act as, an agricul-
tural pest control agent in any county unless such person
has first registered with the commissioner, or with the director
in those counties where there is no commissioner.
   12002. The provisions of Section 12001 shall not apply to
the following:
   (a) Employees of federal, state, county or other govern-
mental agencies, districts, or subdivisions thereof, while acting
in their official capacities.
2896              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             TQ^   14U

    (b) Licensed pest control operators when making a recom-
mendation for use in connection with their pest control serv-
ice and within the conditions of their license.
    12003. Registration shall be completed each calendar year
or renewed in a form prescribed by the director and shall
show all of the following information:
    (a) Name and address of registrant.
    (b) Name and address of employer if applicable.
    (c) Type of pest control service to be engaged in.
    (d) Any other relevant information as the commissioner
may require.
    12004. The commissioner shall register the applicant after
he has provided the information required for the current cal-
endar year. Registration shall remain in effect unless revoked
or suspended by the commissioner, pursuant to Section 12008.
    12005. The registrant shall keep and maintain any rec-
ords required by the director and shall make such records
available to inspection by the director or commissioner on re-
quest, including those required in Article 10, Chapter 2, Di-
vision 7 (commencing with Section 12971).
    12006. Every registrant who changes his address, employer,
or place of business, shall immediately notify the commissioner
in each county in which he is required to be registered.
    12007. The director shall adopt such rules and regula-
 tions as are reasonably necessary to gain uniformity between
counties and effectuate the purpose of this chapter.
    12008. Registration may be revoked, suspended or refused,
if the commissioner finds, after a hearing, that the registrant
or the applicant has not complied with any provisions of this
division, any regulation issued pursuant to it, or of any law-
ful order of the commissioner.
    12009. Any person whose registration has been revoked,
suspended, or refused may appeal to the director, within 10
 days for a hearing.
                    Article 2.   Violations
   12021. No person who is subject to this division shall do
any of the following:
   (a) Make any false or fraudulent claim or knowingly mis-
represent the effects respecting any pest control material or
method.
   (b) Fail to comply with any provision of this division, or
any regulation issued pursuant to it, or any lawful order of
the commissioner.
   (c) Fail to keep and maintain the records which are re-
quired by this division, or to make reports when and as re-
quired.
   (d) Make any false or fraudulent record or report.
   (e) Operate in any county without first having registered
with the commissioner.
   (f) Use any fraud or knowingly misrepresent any informa-
tion in making application for registration.
Ch. 1414]           1969 REGULAR SESSION                    28§7

   (g) Make recommendations in a manner or under conditions
likely to interfere or reduce the effectiveness of proper con-
trol.
   (h) Make recommendations likely to cause injury to the
crop or property being treated or to persons or property of
others, including honey bees or wildlife.
   SEC. 6. Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 12101) is
added to Division 6 of the Agricultural Code, to read:
                CHAPTER 7.    PESTICIDE DEALER

                Article 1.   General Provisions
   12101. No person shall act in the capacity of a pesticide
dealer or shall engage or offer to engage in the business of,
advertise as, or assume to act as a pesticide dealer unless
he is licensed as a pesticide dealer pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.
   12102. The provisions of Section 12101 shall not apply to
any federal, state, or county agency which provides pesti-
cide materials for agricultural use.
   12103. Application for a license shall be in the form pre-
scribed by the director. Bach application shall state the name
and address of the applicant and shall be accompanied by a
fee of fifty dollars ($50) to be paid into the Department of
Agriculture Fund. All licenses issued under the provisions of
this article shall expire on December 31 of the year for which
they are issued.
   To the amount of the license fee shall be added, as an addi-
tional license fee twenty dollars ($20) for each branch sales-
yard, store, or sales location which is owned and operated by
the applicant in the state or in other states when doing business
from such location within the state.
   12104. The license for a pesticide dealer may be renewed
annually upon application to the director, accompanied by a
fee of fifty dollars ($50), for each license and twenty dollars
 ($20) for each branch, salesyard store, or sales location, on or
before the first day of January of the calendar year for which
the license is issued, however, a renewal may be issued without
penalty after the first day of January to an applicant who has
not acted as a pesticide dealer between the first day of January
of each calendar year and the date of his renewal application.
   12105. A penalty of fifteen dollars ($15) shall be added
to any fee which is not paid when due.
   12106. Each applicant shall satisfy the director as to his
knowledge of the laws and regulations governing the use and
sale of pesticides, and his responsibility in carrying on the
business of a pesticide dealer.
   12107. The director shall issue to each applicant that satis-
fies the requirements of this article a license which entitles
the applicant to conduct the business described in the applica-
tion for the calendar year for which the license is issued, un-
less the license is sooner revoked or suspended.
2898              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               IQfr   1414

   12108. Every licensed pesticide dealer who changes his
address or place of business shall immediately notify the di-
rector.
   12109. Every licensed pesticide dealer shall submit to the
director the names of all persons employed by him in the
capacity of an "agricultural pest control a g e n t " as denned
in Section 11406.
   12110. Each dealer shall be responsible for the acts of each
person employed by him in the solicitation and sale of pesti-
cides and all claims and recommendations for use of pesti-
cides. The^ dealer's license shall be subject to disciplinary ac-
tion for any violation of this chapter whether committed by
the dealer, or by any officer, agent or employee.
   12111. The director may adopt such rules and regulations
as are reasonably necessary to effectuate the purposes of this
chapter.
   12112. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11513,
the moneys derived under this chapter for licenses issued for
the 1970 calendar year shall be available to the director to
cover the costs of establishing and administering the pesticide
dealer's licensing program pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. Thereafter the director shall pay 50 percent of the
moneys collected to the counties which employ agricultural
commissioners and the moneys shall be used by the counties
for the enforcement and administration of the provisions of
this chapter. The department shall determine and pay to each
county one-half of such deposited application fees and re-
newal fees that are received from applicants whose principal
address at the time of payment as determined by the director
was located in said county, and the amount of such payments
to counties is hereby appropriated from the Department of
Agriculture Fund.

                     Article 2.   Violations
   12121. No person who is subject to this division shall do
any of the following:
   (a) Fail to demonstrate to the director that he is qualified
to act in the capacity of a pesticide dealer.
   (b) Fail to notify the director of any transfer or change
of address.
   (c) Fail to submit the names of all persons employed by
him in the capacity of an agricultural pest control agent.
   (d) Fail to comply with the provisions of this article or
of rules and regulations issued under this article.
   (e) Make false or fraudulent statements, or misrepresent
or fail to disclose any material fact in making application for
a license or renewal of license.
   (f) Make any false or misleading statements or promises
of a character likely to influence, induce, or deceive, or pub-
lish or cause to be published or distributed or displayed any
                        1969
Ch. 1415]                      REGULAR SESSION                    2899

false or misleading literature or advertisement, concerning
any pesticide or method of pest control.
   SEC. 6. The provisions of this act shall not become opera-
tive until January 1,1970.


                           CHAPTBE 1415
An act to amend Sections 1821, 1825, and 1826 of, and to
  repeal Section 1827 of, the Welfare and Institutions Code,
  relating to the Department of the Youth Authority,    and
  making an appropriation    therefor.
            [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1821 of the "Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   1821. From any state moneys made available to it for such
purpose, the State of California, through the Department of
the Youth Authority, shall, in accordance with this article,
share in the cost of supervising probationers in ' ' special super-
vision programs'' established by county probation departments
to reduce commitments to the Department of the Youth Au-
thority or the Department of Corrections.
   SEC. 2. Section 1825 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   1825. (a) No county shall be entitled to receive any state
funds provided by this article until its application is approved
and unless and until the minimum standards prescribed by
the Department of the Youth Authority are complied with
and then only on such terms as are set forth hereafter in this
section.
   (b) A commitment rate for each county and for the state
as a whole shall be calculated by the Department of the
Youth Authority by computing the ratio of new commitments
to state and county population, expressed in a rate per hun-
 dred thousand population, for each of the calendar years 1959
through 1963. The average of these rates for a county for the
five-year period or the average of the last two years of the
period, whichever is higher, shall be the base rate for that
county. The number of commitments shall be the total of the
new commitments to the custody of the Director of the Youth
Authority and the new criminal commitments to the custody
of the Director of Corrections, as certified by the respective
 departments. The county and state population shall be that
 certified by the Department of Finance to the Controller as of
 July 1 of each year. Persons committed to the Department of
 Corrections and subsequently dicharged under Section 1168
of the Penal Code and persons committed to the Department
2900               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 t(*h. 1415

of Corrections or the Department of the Youth Authority for
diagnostic study only pursuant to Section 1203.03 of the Penal
Code or Section 704 or 1752.1 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code, shall not be counted as having been committed for pur-
poses of determining commitment rates under this subdivision
or subdivision (c).
   (c) An annual commitment rate shall be calculated at the
end of each fiscal year for each participating county and for
the state as a whole in a like manner to that described in sub-
division (b) using the population figure of the July 1 included
in the year.
   (d) The maximum amount that may be paid to a county
pursuant to this article is determined by obtaining the inter-
polated dollar amount in the table in this subdivision for such
county's base commitment rate and its percentage decrease,
interpolated to the nearest one-tenth of 1 percent, in rate of
commitment and multiplying the appropriate dollar amount
by the "commitment reduction number." The "commitment
reduction number" is obtained by subtracting (1) the most
recent annual commitment number from (2) the product of
the base commitment rate and population of the county for the
same year employed in (1). The Director of the Youth Au-
thority, with approval of the Director of Finance may an-
nually adjust the dollar amounts in the ensuing table to reflect
changes in cost to the state of maintaining persons committed
to the custody of the Director of Corrections and the Director
of the Youth Authority, and if such adjustments are made, the
adjusted amounts shall be employed in making the computa-
tion prescribed by this subdivision.

    Per Capita Subsidy in Relation to Percentage Decrease
              Base Commitment Rates/100,000
                    (Adult and Juvenile)
  Percent of Less than
decrease from    40    40-49 50-59 60-69 70-79 80-89 90 plus
   base rate  100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000

 1 percent-..$2,400 $2,285 $2,180 $2,135 $2,105 $2,085 $2,080
 2 percent^. 2,800 2,570 2,360 2,265 2,210 2,175 2,160
 3 percent—. 3,200 2,855 2,545 2,400 2,315 2,260 2,240
 4 percent—. 3,600 3,145 2,725 2.535 2,420 2,350 2,320
 5 percent—. 4,000 3,430 2,910 2,665 2,525 2,435 2,400
 6 percent __. 4,000 3,715 3,090 2,800 2,630 2,520 2,480
 7 percent—. 4,000 4,000 3,275 2.935 2,735 2,610 2,560
 8 percent—. 4,000 4,000 3,455 3,065 2,840 2,695 2,640
 9 percent-.. 4,000 4,000 3,635 3.200 2,945 2,785 2,720
10 percent—. 4,000 4.000 3,820 3,335 3,055 2,870 2,800
11 percent—. 4,000 4,000 4,000 3,465 3,160 2,955 2,880
12 percent—_ 4,000 4,000 4,000 3,600 3,265 3,045 2,960
13 percent—. 4,000 4,000 4,000 3,735 3,370 3,130 3,040
14 p e r c e n t -. 4,000 4,000 4,000 3,865 3,475 3;215 3,120
                        196&
Ch. 1415]                      REGULAR SESSION                     2901

  Percent of    Less than
decrease from      40     40-49 50-59 60-69 70-79 80-89 90 plus
   base rate     100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
15 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 3,580       3,305   3,200
16 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 3,685       3,390   3,280
17 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 3,790       3,480   3,360
18 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 3,895       3,565   3,440
19 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 4,000       3,650   3,520
20 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 4,000       3,740   3,600
21 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 4,000       3,825   3,680
22 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 4,000       3,915   3,760
23 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 4,000       4,000   3,840
24 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 4,000       4,000   3,920
25 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000 4,000 4,000       4,000   4,000
Over
25 percent— 4,000 4,000           4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000

   (e) The state will reimburse the county upon presentation
of a valid claim based on actual performance in reducing the
commitment rate from its base rate. Whenever a claim made
by a county, pursuant to this article, covering a prior fiscal
year, is found to be in error, adjustment may be made on a
current claim without the necessity of applying the adjustment
to the allocation for the prior year.
   (f) If the amount received by a county in reimbursement of
its expenditures in a fiscal year is less than the maximum
amount computed under subdivision (d), the difference may
be used in the next succeeding fiscal year and may be paid
to the county in quarterly installments during such fiscal year
upon preparation of valid claims for reimbursement of its
quarterly expenses.
    (g) In the event a participating county earns less than
the sum paid in the previous year because of extremely un-
usual circumstances claimed by the county and verified by the
Director of the Youth Authority with the approval of the
Director of Finance, the Director of the Youth Authority may
pay to the county a sum equal to the prior year's payment,
provided, however, that in subsequent years the county will be
paid only the amount earned.
    (h) Funds obtained under this article shall not be used
 to support existing programs or develop or expand new pro-
 grams in juvenile homes, ranches, or camps established under
Article 15 (commencing with Section 880) of Chapter 2 of
 Part 1 of Division 2 of this code.
    (i) Counties where the average number of commitments in
 the base period as established by subdivision (b) is less than
 30 may elect either to comply with the procedure set out above
 or, as an alternative, to receive from the state 90 percent of
 the salary of one full-time additional probation officer or,
 in the event there are fewer than 20 persons placed on pro-
bation annually otherwise eligible for commitment to state
2902               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Qfa J41g

institutions, the county would be entitled to 90 percent of the
salary of a half-time officer. I n the event a county chooses the
alternative proposal, it will be eligible for reimbursement only
so long as the officer devotes all of his time in the performance
of probation services to supervision of persons eligible for state
commitment and persons participating in special supervision
programs and (1) if its base rate is below the state average,
it does not on an annual basis exceed the base state rate, or
 (2) if its base rate is above the state average, it does not in
the year exceed by 5 percent its own base rate.
   SEC. 3. Section 1826 of the "Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   1826. The Department of the Youth Authority shall make
periodic reports to the Legislature on the experiences and the
results under the provisions of this article.
   SEC. 4. Section 1827 of the "Welfare and Institutions Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 5. This act shall be known and may be cited as the
Arnold-Bee-Kennick Act.
   SEC. 6. To further experiment in methods of reducing
commitments to state institutions, the sum of two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000) is hereby appropriated from the
General F u n d to the Department of the Youth Authority to
be allocated by the Director of the Youth Authority in accord-
ance with Section 1752.5 or Section 1752.6 of the "Welfare and
Institutions Code.

                        CHAPTER 1416
An act to amend Section 13600 of, and to add Section 13601
  to, the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to public as-
  sistance, and making an appropriation therefor.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13600 of the "Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   13600. Except as provided in Section 13601, no relative
shall be held legally liable to support or to contribute to the
support of any applicant for or recipient of aid under this
chapter. No relative shall be held liable to defray in whole or
in part the cost of any medical care or hospital care or other
service rendered to a recipient pursuant to any provision of
this code if he is an applicant for or a recipient of aid under
this chapter at the time such medical care or hospital care
or other service is rendered.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 206 of the Civil
Code or Section 270c of the Penal Code, or any other provi-
sion of this code, no demand shall be made upon any relative
Ch. 1417]               1969 REGULAR SESSION                      2903

to support or contribute toward the support of any applicant
for or recipient of aid under this chapter. No county or officer
or employee thereof shall threaten any such relative with any
legal action against him by or in behalf of the county or with
any penalty whatsoever.
   SEC. 2. Section 13601 is added to the Welfare and Institu-
tions Code, to read:
   13601. Where a recipient of aid under this chapter resides
with his parents, the parents shall provide normal household
needs of the recipient such as room, household furnishings
and other similar items which do not add appreciably to the
family expense- beyond the amount that the family would
spend if the recipient was not present in the home. The depart-
ment shall follow the policy of evaluating family ability to
provide these items in relation to expenditures made by fami-
lies of comparable income for housing and household opera-
tion. Items of need so contributed by the family shall be taken
into consideration in determining the amount of aid to which
the recipient is entitled.
   SEC. 3. There is hereby appropriated to the State Depart-
ment of Social Welfare for payment for care of mentally re-
tarded recipients of aid to the disabled who are in private in-
stitutions an amount equal to the savings to the state under the
aid to the disabled program, not to exceed one million dollars
 ($1,000,000) as determined by the Department of Finance,
otherwise resulting from this act.
   The State Department of Social Welfare shall issue any
regulations necessary to make such payments, giving priority
to persons who need further financial assistance on their be-
half in order to obtain adequate care.


                           CHAPTER 1417

An act to amend Section 11351 of, and to add Section 11351.5
  to, the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to aid to
  families with dependent children.
            [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 11351 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   11351. Where a needy child lives with his mother and a
stepfather, the amount of the grant made pursuant to Section
11450 of this code shall be computed after consideration is
given to the income of the stepfather. The county granting aid
shall determine if the stepfather is able to support the child
either wholly or in part. The determination shall be based
upon a standard which takes into account the stepfather's
2904               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  r ^   ^jg

income and expenses under regulations adopted by the depart-
ment.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 209 of the Civil
Code, a stepfather is bound to support, if able to do so, his
wife's children if without support from such stepfather they
would be needy children eligible for aid under this chapter.
However, such liability for support shall not exceed the wife's
community property interest in his income.
   A natural father is not relieved of any legal obligation
to support his children by the liability for their support im-
posed upon their stepfather by this section.
   SEO. 2. Section 11351.5 is added to the Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:
   11351.5. Whenever an unrelated adult male resides with a
family applying for or receiving aid under this chapter, he
shall be required to make a financial contribution to the family
which shall not be less than it would cost him to provide him-
self with an independent living arrangement.
   The minimum financial contribution to the family shall be
determined in accordance with standards established by the
department which takes into account such adult male person's
income and expenses. The regulations formulated by the de-
partment shall require the mother of the children and the
unrelated male to present all of the facts in connection with
the sharing of expenses which comprise the agreement whereby
said adult male resides with the family. The conditions of the
agreement and the facts related to the sharing of the family
expenses shall be signed under penalty of perjury by both
the mother of the child and the unrelated male. In the event
that either the mother or the adult male person willfully and
knowingly fails to cooperate during the period such joint shar-
ing of expenses arrangement exists in setting forth all of the
facts in accordance with provisions of this section, aid to the
family may be discontinued.
   The provisions of this section do not apply to a bona fide
paying lodger, roomer or boarder living in the home of a
family applying for or receiving aid under this chapter.


                        CHAPTBE 1418
An act to add Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 11025)
  to Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and
  Institutions Code, relating to public assistance, making an
  appropriation therefor, and declaring the urgency thereof,
  to take effect immediately.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969,]
                     1969
Ch. 1418]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2905

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 11025)
is added to Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 9 of the "Welfare
and Institutions Code, to read:

    Article 1.5.   Intergovernmental Welfare Management
                    and Information Systems
   11025. This act shall be known as the Intergovernmental
Welfare Management and Information Systems Act of 1969.
   11026. The Department of Social Welfare shall undertake
a program to improve the management and to simplify and
reduce the cost of welfare administration by developing effi-
cient, highly automated processes for determining eligibility
and making aid payments. The department shall also under-
take a program to improve the general efficiency and effective-
ness of welfare in California by developing an integrated wel-
fare management information system which will provide
information necessary for the proper planning, evaluation, and
control of welfare programs.
   11027. It is the intent of the Legislature in authorizing
the department to develop efficient, highly automated proc-
esses for determining eligibility and making aid payments t o :
   (a) Have the department review its regulations and elim-
inate or modify those regulations under the department's con-
trol which cause costly and inefficient welfare administration.
   (b) Provide an integrated and systematic organization
structure for performing the functions involved, permitting
maximum use of electronic data processing.
   (c) Reduce the employment standards and training require-
ments for personnel who will perform the eligibility deter-
mination and aid payment functions to the lowest level possi-
ble consistent with effective administration.
   (d) Eliminate unnecessary functions and forms and con-
solidate redundant information.
   (e) Permit the most efficient collection, storage and retrieval
of information.
   (f) Eliminate all possible causes of error made in the eligi-
bility determination and aid payment process.
   (g) Provide the concepts and procedures for continuing
evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of the eligibility
determination and aid payment process using modern manage-
ment tools such as operations research and cost-benefit analysis.
   (h) Provide a stable base for personnel and equipment
budgeting and for planning future developments in welfare
programs.
   (i) Produce uniform processes which meet the needs of coun-
ties of various sizes and which are flexible enough to encourage
innovations by counties which will improve the process.
2906               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQ^ J ^ g

    11028. I t is the intent of the Legislature in authorizing
the department to develop an integrated welfare management
information system t o :
    (a) Provide the department, concerned county agencies, and
the federal government with the information needed for effec-
tive management of welfare programs.
    (b) Evaluate the costs of acquiring the information sought
from the welfare programs and the benefits to be gained from
having the information and insure that there is a specific and
practical use for the information.
     (c) Integrate to the extent feasible, the county systems with
the department's electronic data processing system and the
electronic data processing systems of the federal Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare.
     (d) Integrate as feasible and appropriate, the welfare in-
 formation system with other state agency information systems.
     (e) Produce uniform model electronic data processing sys-
 tems for use in county welfare administration which meet the
 needs of counties of various sizes with differing caseload
 characteristics and are broad enough in design to integrate
 with general county management information systems.
     (f) Encourage counties to develop electronic data process-
 ing applications which are not provided for in the uniform
 welfare electronic data processing systems designed pursuant
 to this article when such applications will not damage the sys-
 tem 's uniformity.
      (g) Provide orderly procedures for modifying the uniform
 welfare electronic data processing systems or extending the
 applications encompassed by the uniform systems in response
 to improvements or additions suggested by the counties or the
 state.
      (h) Produce, to the extent feasible, an electronic data proc-
  essing capability in the department which can:
     1. Automatically produce and transmit all federal reports.
     2. Provide information to state and county officials for evalu-
  ating the cost and effectiveness of programs and planning
  future program developments.
     3. Provide a statewide automated clearinghouse of recipi-
  ent information to improve the speed and accuracy of eligibil-
  ity determination which is operated in accordance with pro-
  visions of this code relating to confidentiality of recipient
  information.
     4. Provide direct electronic data processing services under
  contract with the department to counties which desire such
  services.
     5. Provide programming for the county systems of program,
  policy and regulatory changes affecting electronic data proc-
  essing.
      (i) Include consistent data elements which will insure the
  greatest possible compatibility between the welfare manage-
  ment information system and other state, local and intergov-
  ernmental information systems.
                    1 9 6 9 RB<
Ch. 14181                         5ULAR SESSION             2907

     (j) Provide for access by the Legislature to the information
contained in the system and insure that the system is designed
to meet the information needs of the Legislature in addition
to the needs of other users of the system.
    11029. In carrying out the provisions of this article, the
department shall:
     (a) In conjunction with county welfare departments and
other concerned county agencies and officials, conduct compre-
hensive surveys of the information needs for welfare manage-
ment as a precondition to actual design and programming of
the model electronic data processing systems. The department
shall request that the federal Department of Health, Educa-
tion, and Welfare conduct a survey of its own welfare informa-
 tion needs and provide the results of that survey to the state.
     (b) With the participation of county government officials,
develop a plan for implementing the provisions of this article.
     (c) Designate personnel with the authority and responsi-
bility necessary for properly managing the programs author-
ized by this article in keeping with the legislative intent that
these programs be considered major undertakings by the de-
partment.
     (d) Submit an annual report of activities and recommenda-
tions concerning implementation of this article, including but
 not limited to, recommendations for repeal or amendment of
 laws which hamper efficient welfare administration, to the
 Governor and the Legislature at each regular session of the
 Legislature. A preliminary report shall be submitted to the
 Joint Legislative Budget Committee by January 1, 1970, de-
 tailing progress to date, plans for future systems work, and
 estimates of the funding requirements for the next fiscal year.
     11030. The plan formulated by the department pursuant to
  Section 11029(b) shall integrate all programs under this ar-
  ticle into a single program for making major reforms in
  welfare information collection and processing and in determi-
  nation of eligibility and payment of aid. The plan shall specify
  at least the following:
      (a) The extent to which the goals set forth in Sections 11027
  and 11028 are feasible to accomplish.
      (b) The precise objectives, the costs and the benefits, the
  tasks, and the timetable for the program.
      (e) The methods for coordinating state, county and federal
  government efforts.
      (d) The precise role to be played by department personnel,
  personnel of a contractor or contractors, and county welfare
  program and data processing personnel.
      (e) The authority and responsibilities of personnel re-
  sponsible for management of the program authorized by this
  article.
      (f) The conditions for county implementation of the uni-
  form welfare electronic data processing systems and the eligi-
  bility determination and aid payment processes including
2908               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r ^ h . 1418

phased implementation, as appropriate. Such conditions shall
specify that receipt of federal funds by a county for welfare
 administrative costs for electronic data processing shall be
conditioned upon satisfactory implementation of the systems
 and processes developed during the program.
    11031. The plan developed pursuant to Section 11029
shall be submitted by the department to the State Elec-
tronic Data Processing Policy Committee for review and to
the Intergovernmental Board on Electronic Data Processing
for adoption in accordance with the functions and responsi-
bilities assigned to the policy committee by Section 11721(c)
and to the board by Section 11711 of the Government Code.
    The plan developed pursuant to Section 11029 shall also be
submitted to the Joint Legislative Budget Committee.
    11032. The department may let such contract or contracts
as it deems necessary to assist in carrying out the provisions
of this article.
   11033. The department shall implement the provisions of
this article in a way which permits receipt of maximum avail-
able federal funds under Sections 1110 or 1115 of the federal
 Social Security Act as amended.
    11034. In the event that the federal government provides
 California with demonstration project funds for the purpose
 of designing management information systems for departments
within the Human Relations Agency in addition to the De
partment of Social Welfare, the Secretary of the Human
Relations Agency shall have responsibility for coordinating the
management information systems work in the several depart-
ments. The authority of the Secretary of Human Relations to
coordinate interdepartmental management information systems
work shall not supersede the authority of the directors of the
several departments to carry out their responsibilities under
this article, or under other provisions of law.
    11035. This article shall remain in effect until July 1, 1974,
or such earlier date as the Governor may determine when the
goals of this article have been achieved and shall have no force
or effect after that date.
   SEC. 2. The sum of one hundred eight thousand dollars
 ($108,000) is hereby appropriated from the General F u n d to
the Department of Social "Welfare for the purposes of this act.
   Expenditures pursuant to this act shall be made in con-
formity with Section 4 of the Budget Act of 1969 and the
criteria set forth in the Supplementary Report of the Com-
mittee on Conference relating to the Budget Bill dated June
30, 1969, pertaining to electronic data processing.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting Such
necessity are:
                        1969
Ch. 1420]                      REGUtiAjR SESSION                    2909

   In order for the development of the information systems
authorized by this act to be carried out in a timely and effec-
tive manner, with maximum use of available federal funds, it
is necessary that this act go into immediate effect.


                           CHAPTER 1419
An act to add Section 14103.2 to the Welfare and              Institutions
             Code, relating to medical assistance.
            [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Piled with
                  Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14103.2 is added to the Welfare and
Institutions Code, to read :
   14103.2. Whenever the director determines that the serv-
ices or products of a provider cost the program in excess of
reasonable value received, the provider shall thereafter be dis-
qualified from participation in the program. The disqualifica-
tion shall not become effective until an opportunity for a pub-
lic hearing has been granted.
   The department shall conduct a continuing review of reim-
bursements to all hospitals participating in the program in
order to determine if any reimbursements are in excess of rea-
sonable value received. The department shall report annually
to the Legislature on the reimbursement rates for each hospital
and any actions taken as a result of the departmental review.


                           CHAPTER 1420
An act to repeal Section 14117 of, and to add Section 14117
  to, the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to medical
  assistance.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14117 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 14117 is added to the Welfare and Institu-
tions Code, to read:
   14117. (a) When benefits are provided or will be provided
to a beneficiary under this chapter because of an injury for
which another person is civilly liable, the director shall have
a right to recover from such person the reasonable value of the
benefits so provided. The Attorney General, or counsel for the
fiscal intermediary under the California Medical Assistance Pro-
2910              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                m j l t 1420

gram with the permission of the Attorney General, or a county
through its civil legal adviser, may, to enforce such right, in-
stitute and prosecute legal proceedings against the third person
who is liable for the injury in the appropriate court, either
in the name of the director or in the name of the injured per-
son, his guardian, personal representative, estate, or survivors.
In enforcing such right the director may commence and prose-
cute actions, file liens, or intervene in court proceedings all in
the same manner, with the same rights and authority as to
notice, settlement and other matters, and to the same extent
provided in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 3850), Part
1, Division 4 of the Labor Code for an employer or workmen's
compensation insurer where payments have been made or a
liability incurred by an employer or an insurer under the
workmen's compensation laws. In the event that the injured
party beneficiary, his guardian, personal representative, es-
tate or survivors or either of them brings an action for dam-
ages against the third person who is liable for the injury, no-
tice of institution of legal proceedings, notice of settlement
and all other notices required under Chapter 5 (commencing
with Section 3850), Part 1, Division 4 of the Labor Code
shall be given to the director in Sacramento except in cases
where the director specifies that notice shall be given to the
Attorney General.
    (b) The director may (1) compromise, or settle and execute
a release of, any such claim, or (2) waive any such claim, in
whole or in part, for the convenience of the director, or if the
director determines that collection would result in undue hard-
ship upon the person who suffered the injury.
    (c) No action taken in behalf of the director pursuant to
this section or any judgment rendered in such action shall be
a bar to any action upon the claim or cause of action of the
injured person, his guardian, personal representative, estate,
dependents, or survivors against the third person who is liable
for the injury, or shall operate to deny to the injured person
the recovery for that portion of his damage not covered here-
under. If a legal proceeding is instituted by the director pur-
suant to this section notice shall be given to the beneficiary,
his guardian, personal representative, estate or survivors or
either of them who shall have the right to intervene in the
proceeding as where an employer institutes a legal action un-
der Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 3850), Part 1,
Division 4 of the Labor Code and shall otherwise have the
rights of an employee under Chapter 5 (commencing with Sec-
tion 3850), Part 1, Division 4 of the Labor Code. Where an
action is brought by the director it shall be commenced within
the period prescribed in Section 338 of the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure.
                      1969
Ch. 1421]                    REGULAR SESSION                    2911

                         CHAPTER 1421
An act to add Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 436.50) to
  Part 1 of Division 1 of the Health and Safety Code, relating
  to public health.
          [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 436.50)
is added to Part 1 of Division 1 of the Health and Safety Code,
to read:
                   CHAPTER 5.      LABORATORIES

    436.50. On or before July 1, 1970, the State Board of Pub-
 lic Health shall adopt and publish such rules and regulations
 to be used in approving and governing the operation of labora-
 tories engaging in the performance of tests referred to in Sec-
tions 436.51 and 436.52, including the qualifications of the
employees of such laboratories who perform such tests, as it
determines are reasonably necessary to insure the competence
of such laboratories and employees to prepare, analyze, and
report the results of such tests. The rules and regulations shall
be adopted, only after the State Board of Public Health has
consulted with at least one member of each of the following
groups: district attorneys, public defenders, coroners, crimi-
nalists, pathologists, analytical chemists, and such other per-
sons deemed by the board to be qualified.
    436.51. On or after January 1, 1971, the testing by or for
law enforcement agencies of blood, urine, or tissue for the pur-
poses of determining the concentration of ethyl alcohol in the
blood of persons involved in traffic accidents or in traffic viola-
tions shall be performed only by a laboratory approved and
licensed by the State Director of Public Health for the per-
formance of such tests.
    436.52. The testing of breath samples by or for law en-
forcement agencies for purposes of determining the concentra-
tion of ethyl alcohol in the blood of persons involved in traffic
accidents or in traffic violations shall be performed in accord-
ance with regulations adopted by the State Board of Public
Health.
    The rules and regulations shall establish the procedures to
be used by law enforcement agencies in administering breath
tests for the purposes of determining the concentration of
ethyl alcohol in a person's blood. Such rules and regulations
shall be adopted and published in accordance with the provi-
sions of Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 11371) of
Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.
   436.53. Bach laboratory in this state which performs the
tests referred to in Sections 436.51 and 436.52, shall be licensed
by the State Director of Public Health. Each such laboratory,
   92—1954
2912              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQJj   \<$,\

other than a laboratory operated by the state, city or county
or other public agency shall upon application for licensing
pay a fee to the State Department of Public Health in an
amount, to be determined by the State Board of Public Health,
which will reimburse the department for the costs incurred by
the department in the issuance and renewal of such licenses,
but not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100). On or before
each January 1 of each year thereafter, each such laboratory
shall pay to the department a fee so determined by the board,
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100), for renewal of its
license.
   436.54. On or after January 1, 1971, the department shall
enforce the provisions of this chapter and such rules and regu-
lations as are adopted by the board.
   436.55. On or after January 1, 1971, the department shall
annually publish a list of approved and licensed laboratories
engaging in the performance of tests referred to in Sections
436.51 and 436.52.
   436.56. Every laboratory which has been approved and for
which a license has been issued shall be periodically inspected
by a duly authorized representative of the state department.
Eeports of each such inspection shall be prepared by the repre-
sentative conducting it upon forms prepared and furnished by
the department and shall be filed with the department.
   436.57. Any license issued pursuant to Section 436.53 may
be suspended or revoked by the State Director of Public
Health for any of the reasons set forth in Section 436.59. The
director may refuse to issue a license to any applicant for any
of the reasons set forth in Section 436.58. The proceedings
under this part shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter
5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3
of Title 2 of the Government Code, and the director shall
have the powers and duties granted therein.
   436.58. The State Director of Public Health may deny a
license if the applicant or any partner, officer or director
thereof:
   (a) Fails to meet the qualifications established by the State
Board of Public Health pursuant to this part for the issuance
of the license applied for.
   (b) Was previously the holder of a license issued under this
part which license has been revoked and never reissued or
which license was suspended and the terms of the suspension
have not been fulfilled.
    (c) Has committed any act involving dishonesty, fraud, or
deceit whereby another was injured or whereby applicant has
benefited.
   436.59. The State Director of Public Health may suspend,
revoke, or take other disciplinary action against a licensee as
provided in this chapter if the licensee or any partner, officer
or director thereof:
    (a) Violates any of the regulations promulgated by the
State Board of Public Health pursuant to this chapter.
                     1969
Ch. 14221                   REGULAR SESSION                   2913

   (b) Commits any act of dishonesty, fraud, or deceit whereby
another is injured or whereby the licensee benefited.
   (c) Has misrepresented any material fact in obtaining a
license.
   436.60. The State Director of Public Health may take dis-
ciplinary action against any licensee after a hearing as pro-
vided in this part by any of the following:
   (a) Imposing probation upon terms and conditions to be
set forth by the director.
   (b) Suspending the license.
   (c) Eevoking the license.
   436.61. Upon the effective date of any order of suspension
or revocation of any license governed by this part, the licensee
shall surrender the license to the State Director of Public
Health.
   436.62. All accusations against licensees shall be filed
within three years after the act or omission alleged as the
ground for disciplinary action, except that with respect to an
accusation alleging a violation of subdivision (c) of Section
436.59, the accusation may be filed within two years after the
discovery by the State Department of Public Health of the
alleged facts constituting the fraud or misrepresentation pro-
hibited by said section.
   436.63. After suspension of the license upon any of the
grounds set forth in this article, the State Director of Public
Health may reinstate the license upon proof of compliance by
the applicant with all provisions of the decision as to reinstate-
ment. After revocation of a license upon any of the grounds
set forth in this part, the license shall not be reinstated or
reissued within a period of one year after the effective date
of revocation.

                        CHAPTER 1422
An act to amend Section 17911 of, and to add Part 6 (com-
  mencing with Section 19960) to Division 13 of, the Health
  and Safety Code, relating to housing.
         [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969 Filed with
                Secretary of State September 3, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 17911 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
  17911. The provisions of this part do not apply to any
building regulated by Part 2 (commencing with Section
18000) or by Part 6 (commencing with Section 19960) of this
division, unless such parts specifically require such application.
   SEC. 2. Part 6 (commencing with Section 19960) is added
to Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:
2914               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ Q j 1422

          PART 6.     FACTORY-BUILT HOUSING
               CHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
                      AND DEFINITIONS

   19960. This part shall be known and may be cited as the
"California Factory-Built Housing Law."
   19961. The Legislature hereby finds and declares that in
an effort to meet the housing needs within the State of Cali-
fornia, the private housing and construction industry has de-
veloped mass production techniques which can substantially
reduce housing construction costs, and that the mass produc-
tion of housing, consisting primarily of factory manufacture of
dwelling units or habitable rooms thereof, presents unique
problems with respect to the establishment of uniform health
and safety standards and inspection procedures. The Legis-
lature further finds and declares that by minimizing the
problems of standards and inspection procedures, it is demon-
strating its intention to encourage the reduction of housing
construction costs and to make housing and home ownership
more feasible for all residents of the state.
                   CHAPTER 2.     DEFINITIONS

   19965. The definitions contained in this chapter govern
the construction of this part, unless the context otherwise
requires.
   19966. " A p p r o v e d " means conforming to the requirements,
and obtaining the approval, of the Department of Housing
and Community Development of the State of California.
   19967. "Residential building" means any structure de-
signed solely for dwelling occupancy, containing one or more
dwelling units and structures accessory thereto.
   19968. "Commission" means the Commission of Housing
and Community Development of the State of California.
   19969. " D e p a r t m e n t " means the Department of Housing
and Community Development of the State of California.
   19970. "Dwelling u n i t " means one or more habitable rooms
which are occupied or which are intended or designed to be
occupied by one family with facilities for living, sleeping,
cooking and eating.
   19971. "Factory-built housing" means a residential build-
ing, dwelling unit or habitable room thereof which is either
wholly manufactured or is in substantial part manufactured at
an off-site location to be wholly or partially assembled on site
in accordance with regulations adopted by the commission
pursuant to Section 19990.
   19972. " F i r s t u s e r " means the person, firm, or corpora-
tion who initially installs factory-built housing within this
state. A person who subsequently purchases a building which
wholly or partially consists of factory-built housing is not a
first user within the meaning of this definition.
                     1969
Ch. 1422]                   REGULAR SESSION                   2915

   19973. "Habitable room" means any room meeting the re-
quirements of this part designed for sleeping, living, cooking,
or dining purposes, excluding such enclosed places as closets,
pantries, connecting corridors, unfinished attics, laundries,
foyers, storage spaces, cellars, utility rooms, and similar spaces.
   19974. "Installation" means the assembly of factory-built
housing on site and the process of affixing factory-built hous-
ing to land, a foundation, footings or an existing building.
   19975. "Local enforcement agency" means the city,
county, or city and county in which factory-built housing is
installed.
  19976. "Manufacture" is the process of making, fabricat-
ing, constructing, forming, or assembling a product from raw,
unfinished, or semifinished materials.
  19977. " S i t e " is the entire tract, subdivision or parcel of
land on which factory-built housing is installed.

                   CHAPTER 3.     ^REGULATION

    19980. Factory-built housing manufactured after the effec-
tive date of the regulations adopted pursuant to Chapter 4
 (commencing with Section 19990) of this part, which is sold or
offered for sale to first users within this state, shall bear
insignia of approval issued by the department.
   The department shall issue insignia for factory-built housing
manufactured prior to the effective date of the regulations
which meets the standards established by the commission as
provided in Section 19990.
   This section shall not apply to factory-built housing which
is inspected and approved at the place of, and during the
time of, manufacture, in accordance with applicable local
building requirements, by the local enforcement agency. The
cost of any such inspection shall be borne by the manufacturer.
   19981. (a) All factory-built housing bearing an insignia of
approval pursuant to Section 19980 shall be deemed to comply
with the requirements of all ordinances or regulations enacted
by any city, city and county, county, or district which may be
applicable to the manufacture of such housing.
    (b) No factory-built housing bearing a department insignia
of approval pursuant to Section 19980 shall be in any way
modified prior to, or during, installation unless approval is
first obtained from the department.
    (c) No factory-built housing which has been inspected and
approved by a local enforcement agency shall be in any way
modified prior to, or during, installation unless approval for
such modification is first obtained from the local enforcement
agency.
   19982. The commission by rule and regulation shall estab-
lish a schedule of fees to pay the costs incurred by the depart-
ment for the work related to administration and enforcement
of this part.
2916              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qjj 1422

   19983. Nothing in this part shall be construed to prevent
the department from delegating by written contract its en-
forcement authority to local government agencies.
   19984. All rules and regulations promulgated by the com-
mission under the authority of this part shall be adopted
pursuant to Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section 11371) of
P a r t 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code.

             CHAPTER 4.     APPLICATION AND SCOPE

   19990. The commission shall promulgate rules and regula-
tions to interpret and make specific the provisions of this part.
Such rules and regulations adopted, amended, or repealed
from time to time pursuant to this chapter shall include pro-
visions imposing requirements reasonably consistent with rec-
ognized and accepted standards contained in the Uniform
Housing Code, 1967 edition, the Uniform Building Code, 1967
edition, as adopted by the International Conference of Build-
ing Officials, the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1967 edition, as
adopted by the International Association of Plumbing and
Mechanical Officials, and the Uniform Mechanical Code, 1967
edition, as adopted by the International Conference of Build-
ing Officials and the International Association of Plumbing
and Mechanical Officials, and the National Electrical Code,
 1968 edition, as adopted by the National Fire Protection Asso-
ciation. The commission shall adopt such other rules and regu-
lations as it deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this
part. In promulgating rules and regulations the commission
shall consider any amendments to the uniform codes referred
 to in this section. In the event of any conflict with respect to
factory-built houses between the provisions of Part 1.5 (com-
mencing with Section 17910) and this part, the requirements
of this part shall control.
   19991. The department shall enforce every provision of
this part and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto, except
as provided in Section 19992.
    19992. Local enforcement agencies shall enforce and in-
 spect the installation of factory-built housing. The installation
 of factory-built housing shall be conducted in accordance with
 the requirements of P a r t 1.5 (commencing with Section
 17910), as modified by Chapter 9 (commencing with Section
 19825) of Part 3, of this division, subject to the provisions of
 Section 19990.
   19993. Local use zone requirements, local fire zones, build-
ing setback, side and rear yard requirements, site development
and property line requirements, as well as the review and regu-
lation of architectural and aesthetic requirements are hereby
 specifically and entirely reserved to local jurisdictions notwith-
standing any requirement of this part.
   19994. The commission shall consult with and obtain the
 advice of an advisory committee on factory-built housing in
 the drafting and promulgation of rules and regulations to be
                        1969
Ch. 1423]                      REGULAR SESSION                    2917

adopted for the purposes of this part. The committee shall con-
sist of 11 members appointed by the Governor, six of whom
shall insofar as possible be appointed from the following pro-
fessional and technical disciplines: at least one member from
architecture, one from structural engineering, one from build-
ing code enforcement, one from mechanical engineering or
contracting, one from electrical engineering or contracting, and
one from the construction design or producer industries. The
remaining five members shall be appointed from the legislative
bodies of cities and counties.

                        CHAPTER 5.      APPEALS

   19995. The commission shall hear appeals brought by any
person regarding the application to such person of any rule or
regulation of the commission promulgated pursuant to this
part. Any such appeals shall first be submitted to the local
enforcement agency, if any, delegated by the department to
enforce the provisions of this part. The commission shall not
hear any appeal regarding any local ordinance, rule, or regu-
lation related to the installation of factory-built housing.
   19996. The commission may promulgate rules pertaining
to the hearing of appeals under the provisions of this chapter.

                       CHAPTER 6.      PENALTIES

   19997. Any person who violates any of the provisions of
this part or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant to this
part is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500) or by imprisonment not
exceeding thirty (30) days, or by both such fine and imprison-
ment.

                           CHAPTER 1423
An act to amend Sections 8523, 12080.2, 12080.5, and 12081.2
  of the Government Code, relating to executive reorganiza-
  tion.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1963.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 8523 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   8523. (a) The Governor shall submit to the commission for
study and recommendation any reorganization plan which he
intends to submit to the Legislature pursuant to authority
vested in the Governor by the Legislature under Section 6 of
Article V of the Constitution at least 30 days prior to submit-
2918              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQh. 1423

sion of such plan to the Legislature. The commission shall
make its report to the Governor and the Legislature within
30 days of the date on which the Governor submits any such
plan to the Legislature. The commission may, on its own initia-
tive, undertake a study of any reorganization proposal sub-
mitted to the Legislature and make reports to the Governor
and the Legislature as it deems necessary.
   (b) Prior to transmittal of a plaji to the Commission on
California State Government Organization and Economy pur-
suant to this section the Governor shall submit each plan to the
Legislative Counsel in order that it may be submitted to the
Legislature in the form and language suitable for enactment
in the statutes at large. The Legislative Counsel shall prepare
a digest of the plan which shall be printed upon the lower part
of the first page thereof.
   I t is the intent of the Legislature in requiring the use of
 statutory format language to insure that reorganization plans
submitted to it express clearly and specifically the nature and
purposes of the plan.
   SEC. 2. Section 12080.2 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   12080.2. Whenever the Governor finds that reorganization
is in the public interest, he shall prepare one or more reorgani-
zation plans in the form and language of a bill as nearly as
practicable and transmit each, bearing an identifying number,
to the Legislature, with a declaration that, with respect to each
reorganization included in the plan, he has so found. The de-
livery to both houses shall be within the first 60 calendar days
of a regular session of the Legislature. The Governor, in his
message transmitting a reorganization plan, shall explain the
advantages which it is probable will be brought about by the
taking effect of the reorganization included in the plan, and he
shall specify with respect to each abolition of a function in-
cluded in the plan the statutory authority for the exercise of
the function.
   SEC. 3. Section 12080.5 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   12080.5. Any reorganization plan transmitted to the Legis-
lature pursuant to this article shall become effective on the
first day after final adjournment of the regular session, or at
a later date as may be provided by the plan, unless during
such session either house of the Legislature determines by a
majority vote of the duly elected and qualified members thereof
that further study of such plan is needed and assigns such
plan for study to a committee.
   SEC. 4. Section 12081.2 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   12081.2. The authority of the Governor to transmit reor-
ganization plans pursuant to Section 12080.2 shall remain in
effect until December 31,1971.
                     l969
Ch. 1424]                   REGULAR SESSION                     2919

   If any provision of this act or the application thereof, except
Section 12080.5, to any person or circumstances is held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications
of the act which can be given effect without the invalid provi-
sion or application, and to this end the provisions of this act,
except Section 12080.5, are severable.


                        CHAPTBE 1424
An act to add Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 626) to
  Title 15 of Part 1 of, to add Section 415.5 to, and to repeal
  Sections 602.7 and 602.9 of, the Penal Code, relating to
  school disturbances, and declaring the urgency thereof, to
  take effect immediately.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. 1Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 196 ).]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 415.5 is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
   415.5. (a) Every person who maliciously and willfully dis-
turbs the peace or quiet of any junior college, state college, or
state university by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous
or offensive conduct, or threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight, or fighting, or by using any vulgar, pro-
fane, or indecent language within the presence or hearing of
women or children, in a loud and boisterous manner, is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
   (1) Upon a first conviction by a fine not exceeding two
hundred dollars ($200) or by imprisonment in the county jail
for a period of not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (2) If the defendant has been previously convicted once of a
violation of this section or of any offense denned in Chapter 1
 (commencing with Section 626) of Title 15 of P a r t 1, by im-
prisonment in the county jail for a period of not less than
10 days or more than six months, or by both such imprison-
ment and a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500),
and he shall not be released on probation, parole, or any other
basis until he has served not less than 10 days.
   (3) If the defendant has been previously convicted two or
more times of a violation of this section or of any offense
denned in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 626) of Title
15 of P a r t 1, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period
of not less than 90 days or more than six months, or by both
such imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500), and he shall not be released on probation, pa-
role, or any other basis until he has served not less than 90
days.
2920              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfa J424

   (b) For the purpose of determining the penalty to be im-
posed pursuant to this section, the court may consider a writ-
ten report from the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation containing information from its records showing
prior convictions; and the communication is prima facie evi-
dence of such convictions, if the defendant admits them, re-
gardless of whether or not the complaint commencing the pro-
ceedings has alleged prior convictions.
   (c) As used in this section "state university," "state col-
lege," and "junior college" have the same meaning as these
terms are given in Section 626.
   SEC. 2. Section 602.7 of the Penal Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 602.9 of the Penal Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 626) is added
to Title 15 of P a r t 1 of the Penal Code, to read:

                     CHAPTER 1.    SCHOOLS

   626. (a) As used in this chapter:
   (1) "State university" means the University of California,
and includes any affiliated institution thereof and any cam-
pus or facility owned, operated, or controlled by the Re-
gents of the University of California.
   (2) "State college" means any California state college, and
includes any campus or facility owned, operated, or controlled
by the Trustees of the California State Colleges.
   (3) " J u n i o r college" means any school established pur-
suant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 25500) of divi-
sion 18.5 of the Education Code.
   (4) "Chief administrative officer" means the president of
a state college, Chancellor of the California State Colleges,
or the officer designated by the Regents of the University of
California or pursuant to authority granted by the Regents
of the University of California to administer and be the offi-
cer in charge of a campus or other facility owned, operated,
or controlled by the Regents of the University of California,
or the superintendent of a junior college district or a school
district maintaining a junior college.
   (b) For the purpose of determining the penalty to be im-
posed pursuant to this chapter, the court may consider a writ-
ten report from the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation containing information from its records show-
ing prior convictions; and the communication is prima facie
evidence of such convictions, if the defendant admits them,
regardless of whether or not the complaint commencing the
proceedings has alleged prior convictions.
   626.2. Every student or employee who, after a hearing,
has been suspended or dismissed from a junior college, state
college, or state university for disrupting the orderly operation
of the campus or facility of such institution, and as a condition
of such suspension or dismissal has been denied access to the
campus or facility, or both, of the institution for the period
                    1969
Ch, 1424]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2921

of the suspension or in the ease of dismissal for a period not
to exceed one year; who has been served by registered or certi-
fied mail, at the last address given by such person, with a
written notice of such suspension or dismissal and condition;
and who willfully and knowingly enters upon the campus or
facility of the institution to which he has been denied access,
without the express written permission of the chief adminis-
trative officer of the campus or facility, is guilty of a misde-
meanor and shall be punished as follows:
   (1) Upon a first conviction, by a fine of not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500), by imprisonment in the county jail
for a period of not more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (2) If the defendant has been previously convicted once
of a violation of any offense defined in this chapter or Section
415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not
less than 10 days or more than six months, or by both such
imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500), and he shall not be released on probation, parole, or
any other basis until he has served not less than 10 days.
   (3) If the defendant has been previously convicted two or
more times of a violation of any offense defined in this chapter
or Section 415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period of not less than 90 days or more than six months, or
by both such imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500), and he shall not be released on pro-
bation, parole, or any other basis until he has served not less
than 90 days.
   Knowledge shall be presumed if notice has been given as
prescribed in this section. The presumption established by this
section is a presumption affecting the burden of proof.
   626.4. (a) The chief administrative officer of a campus or
other facility of a junior college, state college, or state uni-
versity, or an officer or employee designated by him to main-
tain order on such campus or facility, may notify a person
that consent to remain on the campus or other facility under
the control of the chief administrative officer has been with-
drawn whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that such
person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of such
campus or facility.
    (b) Whenever consent is withdrawn by any authorized offi-
cer or employee other than the chief administrative officer,
such officer or employee shall as soon as is reasonably possible
 submit a written report to the chief administrative officer.
 Such report shall contain all of the following:
    (1) The description of the person from whom consent was
withdrawn, including, if available, the person's name, address,
 and phone number.
    (2) A statement of the facts giving rise to the withdrawal
 of consent.
   If the chief administrative officer or, in his absence, a per-
son designated by him for this purpose, upon reviewing the
2922                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qfa 1 4 2 4

 report, finds that there was reasonable cause to believe that
 such person has willfully disrupted the orderly operation of
 the campus or facility, he may enter written confirmation upon
 the report of the action taken by the officer or employee. If the
 chief administrative officer or, in his absence, the person desig-
 nated by him, does not confirm the action of the officer or em-
 ployee within 24 hours after the time that consent was with-
 drawn, the action of the officer or employee shall be deemed
 void and of no force or effect, except that any arrest made dur-
 ing such period shall not for this reason be deemed not to have
 been made for probable cause.
    (c) Consent shall be reinstated by the chief administrative
 officer whenever he has reason to believe that the presence of
 the person from whom consent was withdrawn will not consti-
 tute a substantial and material threat to the orderly operation
 of the campus or facility. I n no case shall consent be with-
 drawn for longer than 14 days from the date upon which
 consent was initially withdrawn. The person from whom con-
 sent has been withdrawn may submit a written request for a
 hearing on the withdrawal within the two-week period. Such
 written request shall state the address to which notice of hear-
 ing is to be sent. The chief administrative officer shall grant
 such a hearing not later than seven days from the date of
 receipt of such request and shall immediately mail a written
 notice of the time, place, and date of such hearing to such
 person.
    (d) Any person who has been notified by the chief admin-
 istrative officer of a campus or other facility of a junior
 college, state college, or state university, or by an officer or em-
ployee designated by the chief administrative officer to main-
tain order on such campus or facility, that consent to remain
on the campus or facility has been withdrawn pursuant to
subdivision (a) ; who has not had such consent reinstated;
and who willfully and knowingly enters or remains upon such
campus or facility during the period for which consent has
been withdrawn is guilty of a misdemeanor. This subdivision
does not apply to any person who enters or remains on such
campus or facility for the sole purpose of applying to the
chief administrative officer for the reinstatement of consent
or for the sole purpose of attending a hearing on the with-
drawal.
    (e) This section shall not affect the power of the duly con-
stituted authorities of a junior college, state college, or state
university to suspend, dismiss, or expel any student or em-
ployee at such university or college.
    (f) Any person convicted under this section shall be pun-
ished as follows:
    (1) Upon a first conviction, by a fine of not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500), by imprisonment in the county jail
for a period of not more than six months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
                    1969
Ch. 1424]                  R E G U L A R SESSION            2923

    (2) If the defendant has been previously convicted once
of a violation of any offense defined in this chapter or Section
415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not
less than 10 days or more than six months, or by both such
imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars
 ($500), and he shall not be released on probation, parole, or
any other basis until he has served not less than 10 days.
   (3) If the defendant has been previously convicted two or
more times of a violation of any offense defined in this chapter
or Section 415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period of not less than 90 days or more than six months, or by
both such imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five hun-
dred dollars ($500), and he shall not be released on probation,
parole, or any other basis until he has served not less than 90
days.
   626.6. In any case in which a person who is not a student
or officer or employee of a junior college, state college, or
state university, and who is not required by his employment to
be on the campus or any other facility owned, operated or
controlled by the governing board of any such junior college,
state college, or state university," enters such campus or fa-
cility, and it reasonably appears to the chief administrative of-
ficer of such campus or facility or to an officer or employee
designated by him to maintain order on such campus or fa-
cility that such person is committing any act likely to inter-
fere with the peaceful conduct of the activities of such campus
or facility or has entered such campus or facility for the pur-
pose of committing any such act, the chief administrative of-
ficer or officer or employee designated by him to maintain
order on such campus or facility may direct such person to
leave such campus or facility, and if such person fails to do
so or if such person willfully and knowingly reenters upon
such campus or facility within 72 hours after being directed
to leave, he is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
as follows:
   (1) Upon a first conviction by a fine of not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500), by imprisonment in the county jail
for a period of not more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (2) If the defendant has been previously convicted once of
a violation of any offense defined in this chapter or Section
415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not
less than 10 days or more than six months, or by both such
imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars
 ($500), and shall not be released on probation, parole, or any
other basis until he has served not less than 10 days.
   (3) If the defendant has been previously convicted two or
more times of a violation of any offense defined in this chapter
or Section 415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period of not less than 90 days or more than six months, or by
both such imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five hun-
2924               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               tQfa   J424

dred dollars ($500), and he shall not be released on proba-
tion, parole, or any other basis until he has served not less
than 90 days.
   626.8. (a) Any person who comes into any school build-
ing or upon any school ground, or street, sidewalk, or public
way adjacent thereto, without lawful business thereon, and
whose presence or acts interfere with the peaceful conduct of
the activities of such school or disrupt the school or its pupils
or school activities, and who remains there, or who reenters
or comes upon such place within 72 hours, after being asked
to leave by the chief administrative official of that school or any
designated agent of the chief administrative official who pos-
sesses a standard supervision credential or a standard admin-
istration credential or who carries out the same functions as
a person who possesses such a credential or, in the absence
of the chief administrative official, the person acting as the
chief administrative official, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished as follows:
   (1) Upon a first conviction by a fine of not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500), by-imprisonment in the county jail
for a period of not more than six months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (2) If the defendant has been previously convicted once
of a violation of any offense defined in this chapter or Sec-
tion 415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period
of not less than 10 days or more than six months, or by both
such imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five hundred
dollars ($500), and he shall not be released on probation,
parole, or any other basis until he has served not less than
10 days.
   (3) If the defendant has been previously convicted two or
more times of a violation of any offense defined in this chap-
ter or Section 415.5, by imprisonment in the county jail for
a period of not less than 90 days or more than six months,
or by both such imprisonment and a fine of not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500), and he shall not be released on pro-
bation, parole, or any other basis until he has served not less
than 90 days.
   (b) As used in this section:
   (1) "School" means any elementary school, junior high
school, four-year high school, senior high school, adult school
or any branch thereof, opportunity school, continuation high
school, regional occupational center, evening high school, or
technical school.
   (2) "Lawful business" means a reason for being present
upon school property which is not otherwise prohibited by
statute, by ordinance, or by any regulation adopted pursuant
to statute or ordinance.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
                     1969
Ch. 1426]                   REGULAR SESSION                      2925

go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such neces-
sity are:
    The schools and universities of this state are in a state of
crisis and turmoil because of the attempts of various individ-
uals to disrupt their operations. In order that the provisions of
this act can be applicable in the current situation and alleviate
it, it is essential that this act take effect immediately.


                        CHAPTER 1425

An act to add Section 3306 to the Welfare and              Institutions
    Code, relating to the California Rehabilitation       Center
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3306 is added to the Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:
   3306. The Director of Corrections may authorize the tem-
porary removal under custody from the California Reha-
bilitation Center or any of its branches under the jurisdiction of
the Department of Corrections of any person confined therein,
for the purpose of employing said person in any work directly
connected with the administration, management, or mainte-
nance of the center or any branch in which he is confined, or
for purposes of cooperating voluntarily in medical research
which cannot be performed at the prison or institution, or for
participating in community action activities directed toward
delinquency prevention and community betterment programs.
Such removal shall not be for a period longer than one day.
   Under specific regulations established by the director for the
selection of confined persons, the director may also authorize
temporary removal or temporary release of any confined per-
sons for the purpose of furnishing to the confined persons medi-
cal treatment not available at the prison or institution for
purposes preparatory to a return to the community within 90
days of his release date, or for participating in conservation
camp programs.

                        CHAPTER 1426
  An act to amend Section 6873 of the Public Resources Code,
                 relating to oil and gas leases.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]
2926              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ Q ^ 1426

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6873 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   6873. "When leasing tide or submerged lands or beds of
navigable rivers or lakes, the commission shall prepare a form
of lease which shall contain, in addition to other provisions
deemed desirable and necessary by the commission, appropriate
provisions contained in this chapter and the following:
   (a) Each well drilled pursuant to the terms of the lease
may be drilled or slant-drilled to and into the subsurface of
the tide or submerged lands or beds of navigable rivers or
lakes, covered by the lease from upland, riparian or littoral
drill sites owned or controlled by the state or owned by or
available, at any time, to the lessee, or from drill sites located
upon any filled lands heretofore or hereafter filled, whether
contiguous or noncontiguous to the riparian or littoral lands
or uplands, or from any pier heretofore or hereafter con-
structed owned by or available to the lessee and available for
such purpose, or from platforms or other fixed or floating
structure in, on or over the tide or submerged lands or beds
of navigable rivers or lakes, covered by the lease or otherwise
available to the lessee.
    (b) Pollution and contamination of the ocean, and tide-
lands, or navigable rivers or lakes, and all impairment of and
interference with bathing, fishing or navigation in the waters
of the ocean or any bay or inlet thereof, or any navigable
river or lake, and all impairment of, and interference with,
developed shoreline recreational or residential areas, is pro-
hibited, and no oil, tar, residuary product of oil or any refuse
of any kind from any well or works shall be permitted to be
deposited on or pass into the waters of the ocean or any bay
or inlet thereof or any navigable river or lake; provided, how-
ever, that this subsection (b) shall not be deemed to apply to
deposit on or passage into said waters of water not containing
any hydrocarbons or vegetable or animal matter.
   (c) If the lessee, as disclosed by information submitted
with his bid, proposes to drill one or more wells from filled
lands, whether contiguous or noncontiguous to the riparian or
littoral lands or uplands, or from any pier or from platforms
or other fixed or floating structures to be constructed for such
purpose, and if permission from any federal or state agency is
legally required in order to construct any such filled land or
structures, the lessee shall be allowed a reasonable time follow-
ing the execution of the lease within which to secure the neces-
sary permission from such federal and state agencies as shall
be legally required, and, upon the securing of such permission,
a further reasonable time, determined with regard to the na-
ture of the filled lands or structure or structures to be con-
structed, within which to commence operations for the drilling
of such well or wells. The drilling term of the lease shall be
                       1969
Ch. 1427]                     REGULAR SESSION                     2927

extended by the commission by a period equal to such reason-
able time to secure such permission, and, if necessary, to the
date to which the time to commence operations for the drilling
of such well or wells has been extended.
   (d) Any offshore filled lands or structure or structures con-
structed for the purpose of drilling pursuant to this section
shall conform to the rules and regulations of the commission
in effect at the time of invitation for bids in pursuance of
which the lease is awarded. Drilling, whether from upland,
riparian, littoral or offshore locations, shall be conducted in
conformance with such rules and regulations in effect at the
time of invitation for bids in pursuance of which the lease is
awarded.
   In the case of any existing lease of tide or submerged lands,
the commission may, with the consent of the other party
thereto, amend the same so as to contain or conform with sub-
divisions (a), (b), (c) and (d) hereof, or any of them, except
that the provisions of said subdivision (d) when incorporated
into such a lease by such an amendment shall refer to the
rules and regulations in effect at the time such amendment is
made rather than to those in effect at the time of invitation for
bids in pursuance of which the lease is awarded and said sub-
division (a) may not be incorporated into such a lease without
also incorporating said subdivision (d) therein.


                           C H A P T E E 1427
An act to add Sections 22505, 22508, 22509 to, to add Chapter
  3.7 (commencing with Section 22635) to Division 16.5 of,
  and to add Chapter 4.7 (commencing with Section 31291)
  of Division 22 of, the Education Code, relating to colleges
  and universities, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take
  effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 22505 is added to the Education
Code, to read:
   22505. The chief administrative officer of a junior college,
state college, or state university, after a prompt hearing of the
facts, shall take appropriate disciplinary action against any
student, member of the faculty, member of the support staff,
or member of the administration of the junior college, state
college, or state university who has been convicted of a crime
arising out of a campus disturbance or, after a hearing by a
campus body, has been found to have willfully disrupted the
orderly operation of the campus. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prohibit, where an immediate suspension is re-
2928               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ ( J ^ J427

 quired in order to protect lives or property and to insure the
 maintenance of order, interim suspension pending a hearing;
 provided that a reasonable opportunity be afforded the sus-
 pended person for a hearing within 10 days. The disciplinary
  action may include, but need not be limited to, suspension, dis-
 missal, or expulsion. The provisions of Sections 24308 to 24310,
 inclusive, shall be applicable to any state college employee dis-
 missed pursuant to this section. The chief administrative officer
 of each such institution shall submit periodic reports as to the
 nature and disposition of cases acted upon pursuant to this
 section to his governing board.
     SEC. 2. Section 22508 is added to the Education Code,
 to read:
    22508. (a) As used in this section and Sections 22505 and
 22509:
     (1) "State university" means the University of California,
 and includes any affiliated institution thereof and any campus
 or facility owned, operated, or controlled by the Regents of
 the University of California.
     (2) "State college" means any California state college and
 includes any campus or facility owned, operated, or controlled
 by the Trustees of the California State Colleges.
     (3) " J u n i o r college" means any school established pursu-
 ant to Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 25500) of Divi-
 sion 18.5 of the Education Code.
     (4) "Chief administrative officer" means the president of a
 state college with respect to state college campuses, or Chancel-
 lor of the California State Colleges with respect to other prop-
 erty of the California State Colleges, or the officer designated
 by the Regents of the University of California or pursuant to
 authority granted by the Regents of the University of Cali-
 fornia to administer and be the officer in charge of a campus
 or other facility owned, operated, or controlled by the Regents
 of the University of California, or the president of a junior
college.
    (5) "Civil disturbance" means any occurrence of human
origin on the campus or environs of a state university or
state college or junior college which in the opinion of the chief
administrative officer is beyond the capabilities of the college
officials and campus police to effectively control and which un-
reasonably disrupts the orderly conduct of academic business
or instruction.
    (b) The chief administrative officer of any state university,
state college, or junior college may declare a "state of emer-
gency" whenever he finds that any of the following condi-
tions exists on or near the campus or other facility in such
magnitude that is, or is likely to be, beyond the control of
the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of the campus
or other facility:
    (1) Extreme peril to the safety of persons or property.
    (2) Sabotage.
    (3) Fire,
Ch. 1427]           1969 REGULAR SESSION                    2929

  (4) Flood.
    (5) Epidemic.
    (6) Riot.
    (7) Earthquake.
    (8) Civil disturbance.
    SEC. 3. Section 22509 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
    22509. (a) "When a chief administrative officer of any state
university or state college or junior college, after declaring
a state of emergency pursuant to Section 22508, requests the
assistance of the police or sheriff's department of any city,
county, or city and county, in the control of a civil disturb-
ance on the campus or environs thereof, the state may, through
the Department of Finance whenever money has been appro-
priated for the purpose and in accordance with any conditions
in the appropriation, partially reimburse each police or sher-
iff's department for its costs in rendering such assistance. I t
is not the intent of this section to obligate the state to reim-
burse any police or sheriff's department for such costs. Reim-
bursement, if any, shall be at the rate of 50 percent of such
costs, after one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) of such
costs in total for all local agencies for control of a civil dis-
turbance in any three-consecutive-month period have been
sustained. Reimbursement, if any, shall be made within 30
days after receipt of any statement of such cost duly submitted
in accordance with requirements of form as may be adopted
by the Department of Finance.
    (b) The Department of Finance shall determine the items
to be allowed as costs and shall determine when all local agen-
cies have sustained, in the aggregate, one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) of such costs in any three-consecutive-month
period. Costs of assistance may include regular wages and over-
time paid to peace officers assigned to render assistance during
the course of a civil disturbance. Costs of assistance may also
include costs of replacement of, or repair to, property of the
department destroyed or damaged as a result of assistance
given during a civil disturbance.
    SEC. 4. Chapter 3.7 (commencing with Section 22635) is
added to Division 16.5 of the Education Code, to read:

         CHAPTER 3.7.   RULES OF STUDENT CONDUCT

  22635. The Regents of the University of California, the
Trustees of the California State Colleges, and the governing
board of every junior college or school district maintaining a
junior college, shall adopt or provide for the adoption of
specific rules and regulations governing student behavior
along with applicable penalties for violation of such rules
and regulations. Every student at such institutions of higher
education shall, at the time of registration for a semester or
quarter, as the case may be, at such institutions, be provided
with a copy of such rules and regulations together with a
2930              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [(^h, J 4 2 7

statement of the applicable penalties which may be incurred
by violation thereof. The Eegents of the University of Cali-
fornia, the Trustees of the California State Colleges, and the
governing board of every junior college or school district
maintaining a junior college shall provide for the distribution
of any revision of such rules and regulations to students en-
rolled in such institutions.
   22636. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
Kegents of the University of California to the full extent
authorized by Section 9 of Article I X of the California Con-
stitution, and it is the intent of the Legislature that the re-
gents adopt rules and procedures which they deem appro-
priate for carrying out the purposes of this chapter.
   SEC. 5. Chapter 4.7 (commencing with Section 31291) is
added to Division 22 of the Education Code, to read:

   CHAPTER 4.7.    FORFEITURE OP STATE AID TO STUDENTS

   31291. In accepting a scholarship, loan, fellowship, grant-
in-aid, or any other financial aid given or guaranteed by the
state for assistance, every recipient thereof who is a student at
a public or private university, college, or other institution of
higher education, shall be deemed to have agreed to observe
the rules and regulations promulgated by the governing au-
thority of the university, college, or other institution of higher
education, for the government thereof.
   Any recipient of such state financial aid who, on the campus
of the university, college, or other institution of higher edu-
cation, willfully and knowingly commits any act likely to
disrupt the peaceful conduct of the activities of such campus,
and is arrested and convicted of a public offense arising from
such act, may be determined to be ineligible for any such
state financial aid for a period not to exceed the ensuing two
academic years.
   Any recipient of such state financial aid who, after a hear-
ing, is found to have willfully and knowingly disrupted the
orderly operation of the campus, but has not been arrested
and convicted, may be determined to be ineligible for any
state financial aid for such period as the hearing board may
determine, not to exceed the ensuing two academic years.
   Any such recipient who is suspended from an institution of
higher education for such acts shall be ineligible for such state
financial aid for a period not less than the time of such suspen-
sion.
   The governing authority of the university, college, or other
institution of higher education shall, for purposes of this sec-
tion, cause to be reviewed the record of each recipient and
shall, as soon as practicable, notify a hearing board established
by it of the name of any recipient who committed any such
act and was arrested and convicted of any such public offense,
or is found to have willfully and knowingly disrupted the
                    1969
Ch. 1427]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2931

orderly operation of the campus, or has been suspended from
an institution of higher education for such acts.
   31292. Upon receipt of notice, as provided in Section
31291, that any recipient has committed any act likely to
disrupt the peaceful conduct of the activities of the campus
and was convicted of a public offense in connection therewith,
or is found to have willfully and knowingly disrupted the or-
derly operation of the campus, or has been suspended from
an institution of higher education for such acts, the hear-
ing board shall immediately give the recipient written no-
tice of the report. The notice shall inform the recipient of
the pendency of the proceedings for the suspension of assist-
ance. It shall inform the recipient that he may present evi-
dence of mitigating circumstances to the hearing board within
14 calendar days of the date of the mailing of the notice, and
shall specify the procedures and means by which such evi-
dence is to be presented, including the date at which any
hearing to be afforded him is to be held. The hearing board
may prescribe any procedures and means for such purposes
which it may deem appropriate, provided that any hearing
which may be afforded the recipient shall not be held sooner
than seven days after the date of the mailing of the notice.
   If no response to the hearing board's notice is made within
the period specified in this section, the hearing board may
suspend further assistance to the recipient and the suspension
shall remain in effect not to exceed the ensuing two academic
years.
   After the conclusion of proceedings provided for in this
section, the hearing board shall, by majority vote, determine
whether further assistance to the recipient shall be suspended.
If the recipient was arrested and convicted of a public offense
arising from campus disruption, the suspension may remain
in effect for a period not to exceed the ensuing two academic
years. If the recipient is found by the hearing board to have
willfully and knowingly disrupted the orderly operation of
the campus, but has not been arrested and convicted, the hear-
ing board may suspend further assistance to the recipient for
such period as the hearing board may determine not to exceed
the ensuing two academic years. If the recipient was suspended
from an institution of higher education for such acts, the
hearing board shall suspend further assistance to the recip-
ient for a period not less than the time of such suspension. The
findings of the hearing board shall be in writing.
   The hearing board shall notify the appropriate state agen-
cies of any suspension of state financial aid pursuant to this
section, and no state financial aid shall be extended to the
recipient during such period.
   Any notice required to be made by this section shall be suffi-
cient when it is deposited in the United States registered or
certified mail, postage paid, addressed to the last known ad-
 dress of the addressee.
2932                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [(]J1- 1 4 2 8

    31293. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to pro-
hibit any public or private university, college, or other institu-
tion of higher education from suspending or refusing to grant
scholarships, loans, fellowships, grants-in-aid, or any other
financial aid given or guaranteed by the state for academic
assistance to any individual because of any other misconduct
which in its judgment bears adversely on his fitness for such
assistance.
    31294. For the purposes of this chapter, "state financial
a i d " means any assistance given or guaranteed by the state
which is predicated on attendance at an institution of higher
education.
    SEC. 6. The Legislature hereby finds and declares that
the educational institutions and educational opportunities pro-
vided by the University of California, the California State
Colleges, and the public junior colleges are essential to the
continued welfare of all persons in California. The Legislature
also finds that serious disruptions have occurred at several of
these institutions, that such disruptions threaten the peaceful
pursuit of higher education, and that they are a matter of
statewide concern. The Legislature therefore intends that a
coherent, fair, and uniform system of discipline be operative
upon the campuses of the University of California, the Cali-
fornia State Colleges, and the public junior colleges. This act
is enacted as a part of such fair and uniform system.
    SEC. 7. Sections 22508 and 22509 of the Education Code,
as added by Sections 2 and 3 of this act, shall remain in
effect until the 91st day after the adjournment of the 1971
Regular Session of the Legislature and shall have no force or
effect after that date.
    SEC. 8. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
    The fall semester or quarter, as the case may be, at institu-
tions of higher education in this state will commence shortly.
So that the campuses may be maintained in an orderly manner
and in order to curtail and control disruptions that might
occur thereon, it is necessary that this act take effect im-
mediately.

                         CHAPTER 1428
       An act to add Section 9619 to the Government Code,
               relating to construction of statutes.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
                     1969
Ch. 1430]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2933

   SECTION 1. Section 9619 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
   9619. It is the intention of the Legislature to occupy the
whole field of regulation of the registration or licensing of
commercially manufactured firearms as encompassed by the
provisions of the Penal Code, and such provisions shall be
exclusive of all local regulations, relating to registration or
licensing of commercially manufactured firearms, by any polit-
ical subdivision as defined in Section 1721 of the Labor Code.


                        CHAPTER 1429
      An act to amend Section 14790 of the Government
                 Code, relating to purchases.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 14790 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   14790. Purchases by the Regents of the University of Cali-
fornia are not subject to this article. Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, purchases by the Trustees of the Cali-
fornia State Colleges not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500')
are exempt from this article.


                        CHAPTER 1430
An act to amend Section 6871.2 of, and to add Section 6826.1
  to, the Public Resources Code, relating to oil and gas leases
  on state-owned tide and submerged lands.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6871.2 of the Public Resources Code is
amended to read:
   6871.2. Except as provided in Sections 6872 and 6872.1 of
this code, the commission shall not enter into any lease for
the extraction of oil and gas from state-owned tide and sub-
merged lands within the areas to which this section is appli-
cable.
   The provisions of this section shall be applicable only to
the lands within the following described areas, but shall not
be construed so as to prohibit operations or activities under
any state oil and gas leases of any portion or portions of the
tide and submerged lands to which this section is applicable
and which leases are in effect on January 1, 1955, nor to pro-
2934              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQ 1 ]^ J43Q

hibit renewals or extensions of any such leases in accordance
with the provisions thereof.
   (a) All those tide or submerged lands situated in the areas
of the County of Los Angeles described as follows:
   Area No. 1: Beginning at the point of intersection of the
ordinary high-water mark of the Pacific Ocean with the south-
erly point of Point Fermin; thence in a generally northerly
and westerly direction along said ordinary high-water mark
to the Ventura county line; thence due south three nautical
miles to a point in the Pacific Ocean; thence in a generally
easterly and southerly direction parallel to said ordinary high-
water mark to a point in the Pacific Ocean three nautical
miles due south from the point of beginning; thence due north
to the point of beginning.
   Area No. 2: The tide and submerged lands surrounding the
Islands of San Clemente and Santa Catalina waterward of
the ordinary high-water mark of the Pacific Ocean on such
islands to a distance three nautical miles therefrom.
   (b) All those tide and submerged lands being in the County
of Santa Barbara and lying within an area beginning at the
point of intersection of the ordinary high water mark of the
Pacific Ocean with the westerly line of that certain 408.60
acres, more or less, tract of land shown as belonging to the
University of California, Santa Barbara College, upon that
 certain map thereof, recorded in Book 29 at page 143 Record
of Surveys, in the Office of the Santa Barbara County Re-
corder; thence in a general easterly direction along said ordi-
nary high water mark of the Pacific Ocean to a point distant
500 feet westerly from, measured at right angles thereto, the
southerly prolongation of the easterly line of that certain tract
of land deeded to Nino Brambilla, et ux., by that certain
deed, recorded April 2, 1947, in Book 724 at page 353 of Offi-
cial Records, in said county recorder's office; thence due south
to a point in the Pacific Ocean three nautical miles from said
ordinary high water mark; thence in a general westerly direc-
tion, parallel with the ordinary high water mark of the Pacific
Ocean to a point due south from the point of beginning; thence
due north to the point of beginning;
   (c) All those tide and submerged lands being in the County
of San Luis Obispo and lying within an area beginning at a
point on the ordinary high water mark of the Pacific Ocean
at the center line of the pier at the Pismo Beach State Beach
Park; thence southerly along the ordinary high water mark of
the Pacific Ocean to a point 10 statute miles distant in a direct
line from said point of beginning; thence on a line due west
into the Pacific Ocean a distance of three nautical miles to a
point; thence northerly on a line parallel to the ordinary high
water mark of the Pacific Ocean to a point which lies due west
a distance of three nautical miles from a point on the ordinary
high water mark of the Pacific Ocean, which point is distant
in a direct line one statute mile northerly from the intersection
                    1969
Ch. 1430]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2935

of the ordinary high water mark of the Pacific Ocean with the
center line of the pier in the State Beach Park at Cayucos;
thence southerly along the ordinary high water mark of the
Pacific Ocean to the point of beginning.
   (d) All those tide and submerged lands being in the Coun-
ties of Monterey and Santa Cruz and lying within an area
beginning at the intersection of the ordinary high water mark
of the Pacific Ocean and the common boundary line between
the Counties of Monterey and San Luis Obispo; thence north-
erly and westerly along the ordinary high water mark of the
Pacific Ocean and the bay of Monterey to a point at the
intersection of the ordinary high water mark of the Pacific
Ocean and the common boundary line between the Counties
of Santa Cruz and San Mateo; thence southwest along the
prolongation of said common boundary line to a point in the
Pacific Ocean, said point being the most westerly boundary
line of the County of Santa Cruz; thence in a southerly and
easterly direction along the westerly boundary of the Counties
of Santa Cruz and Monterey to a point in the Pacific Ocean
where said westerly boundary of the County of Monterey in-
tersects with the common boundary between the Counties of
Monterey and San Luis Obispo; thence due east to the point
of beginning.
   (e) All those tide and submerged lands being in the Coun-
ties of Humboldt and Mendocino and lying within an area be-
ginning at the intersection of the ordinary high water mark of
the Pacific Ocean and the south line of Township 5 South,
Humboldt Base Line; thence northerly and westerly along the
ordinary high water mark of the Pacific Ocean to the inter-
section of said high water mark and the north line of Town-
ship 1 North, Humboldt Base Line; thence due west to a point
in the Pacific Ocean, said point being three nautical miles from
the ordinary high water mark; thence in a southerly and east-
erly direction, parallel to and three nautical miles distant from
said high water mark to a point due west from the point of
beginning; thence due east to the point of beginning.
   SEC. 2. Section 6826.1 is added to the Public Resources
 Code, to read:
   6826.1. The State Lands Commission shall not permit the
taking of cores or other samples by means of drilling operations
on or under the tide and submerged lands described in sub-
division (d) of Section 6871.2 or on tide or submerged lands of
the state along the coast of the Pacific Ocean extending from
the southerly boundary of the state to the northerly boundary
of the City of Newport Beach in Orange County, and any
permit issued by the commission for the conduct of geological
or geophysical surveys on such lands shall contain a provision
expressly prohibiting the taking of such cores or samples on
or under such lands. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to permit applications by the Department of Public
Works for soil surveys or bridge foundation exploration
2936                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  TQ^   1^1

studies, to the University of California and other accredited
institutions of higher education which are engaged in oceano-
graphic research and not engaged in an activity of commercial
exploration or exploitation, or to core drilling in connection
with the location of nuclear plant sites.


                         CHAPTEE 1431
An act to amend the heading of Chapter 5 (commencing with
  Section 13960) of Part 4 of Division 3 of, to add an article
  heading immediately preceding Section 13960 of, and to add
  Article 2 (commencing with Section 13970) to Chapter 5 of
  Part 4 of Division 3 of, the Government Code, and to repeal
  Title 5 (commencing with Section 13600) of Part 4 of the
  Penal Code, relating to indemnification of private citizens.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. The heading of Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 13960) of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Government Code
is amended to read ^

       CHAPTER 5.    INDEMNIFICATION OP PRIVATE CITIZENS

  SEC. 2. An article heading is added immediately preced-
ing Section 13960 of the Government Code, to read:

                    Article 1. Victims of Crime
  SEC. 3. Article 2 (commencing with Section 13970) is
added to Chapter 5 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Government
Code, to read:

           Article 2.    Citizens Benefiting the Public
   13970. Direct action on the part of private citizens in pre-
venting the commission of crimes against the person or prop-
erty of others, or in apprehending criminals, or rescuing a
person in immediate danger of injury or death as a result of
fire, drowning, or other catastrophe, benefits the entire public.
In recognition of the public purpose served, the state may
indemnify such citizens in appropriate cases for any injury or
damage they may sustain as a direct consequence of their meri-
torious action to the extent that they are not compensated for
 the injury or damage from any other source.
   13971. As used in this article, '' private citizen'' means any
natural person other than a peace officer, fireman, lifeguard,
or person whose employment includes the duty to protect the
public safety acting within the course and scope of such em-
ployment.
                    1969
Ch. 1431]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2937

   13972. In the event a private citizen incurs personal in-
jury or damage to his property in preventing the commission
of a crime against the person or property of another, in appre-
hending a criminal, or in materially assisting a peace officer
in prevention of a crime or apprehension of a criminal, or
rescuing a person in immediate danger of injury or death as a
result of fire, drowning, or other catastrophe, the private citi-
zen or a public safety agency acting on his behalf may file a
claim for indemnification to the extent that he is not com-
pensated from any other source for such injury or damage with
the State Board of Control. The claim shall generally show:
   (a) The date, place and other circumstances of the occur-
rence or events which gave rise to the claim;
   (b) A general description of the activities of the claimant
in prevention of a crime, apprehension of a criminal, or rescu-
ing a person in immediate danger of injury or death as a
result of fire, drowning, or other catastrophe;
   (c) The amount or estimated amount of the injury or dam-
age sustained for which he is not compensated from any other
source, insofar as it may be known at the time of the presenta-
tion of the claim;
   (d) Such other information as the Board of Control may
require.
   The claim shall be accompanied by a corroborating state-
ment and recommendation from the appropriate state or local
law enforcement agency.
   13973. Upon presentation of any such claim, the Board of
Control shall fix a time and place for the hearing of the claim,
and shall mail notices thereof to interested persons or agencies
and to the Attorney General. At the hearing, the board shall
receive recommendations from the Attorney General and law
enforcement agencies, and evidence showing:
    (a) The nature of the crime committed by the apprehended
 criminal or prevented by the action of the claimant, or the
nature of the action of the claimant in rescuing a person in
immediate danger of injury or death as a result of fire, drown-
ing, or other catastrophe, and the circumstances involved;
    (b) That claimant's actions substantially and materially
contributed to the apprehension of a criminal, the prevention
of a crime, or the rescuing of a person in immediate danger
of injury or death as a result of fire, drowning, or other catas-
trophe ;
    (c) That as a direct consequence, claimant incurred per-
sonal injury or damage to property;
    (d) The extent of such injury or damage for which he is
not compensated from any other source;
    (e) Such other evidence as the board may require.
   If the board determines, on the basis of such evidence, that
the state should indemnify the claimant for the injury or dam-
age sustained, it shall submit a report of the facts and its
2938              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQJj. 1 4 3 1

conclusion to the Legislature, and a recommendation that an
appropriation be made by the Legislature for the purposes of
indemnifying the claimant.
  SEC. 3.5. Article 2 (commencing with Section 13970) is
added to Chapter 5 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Government
Code, to read:

          Article 2.   Citizens Benefiting the Public
   13970. Direct action on the part of private citizens in pre-
venting the commission of crimes against the person or prop-
erty of others, or in apprehending criminals, or rescuing a
person in immediate danger of injury or death as a result of
fire, drowning, or other catastrophe, benefits the entire public.
In recognition of the public purpose served, the state may
indemnify such citizens, their widows, and their surviving chil-
dren in appropriate cases for any injury, death, or damage
sustained by such citizens, their widows or their surviving
children as a direct consequence of such meritorious action to
the extent that they are not compensated for the injury, death,
or damage from any other source.
   13971. As used in this article, "private citizen" means any
natural person other than a peace officer, fireman, lifeguard,
or person whose employment includes the duty to protect the
public safety acting within the course and scope of such
employment.
   13972. In the event a private citizen incurs personal injury
or death or damage to his property in preventing the commis-
sion of a crime against the person or property of another, in
apprehending a criminal, or in materially assisting a peace
officer in prevention of a crime or apprehension of a criminal,
or rescuing a person in immediate danger of injury or death
as a result of fire, drowning, or other catastrophe, the private
citizen, his widow, his surviving children, or a public safety
agency acting on his or their behalf may file a claim with the
State Board of Control for indemnification to the extent that
the claimant is not compensated from any other source for
such injury, death, or damage. The claim shall generally show:
    (a) The date, place and other circumstances of the occur-
rence or events which gave rise to the claim;
    (b) A general description of the activities of the private
citizen in prevention of a crime, apprehension of a criminal,
or rescuing a person in immediate danger of injury or death
as a result of fire, drowning, or other catastrophe;
    (c) The amount or estimated amount of the injury, death,
or damage sustained for which the claimant is not compen-
sated from any other source, insofar as it may be known at
the time of the presentation of the claim;
    (d) Such other information as the Board of Control may
require.
                    1969
Ch. 1431]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2939

   The claim shall be accompanied by a corroborating state-
ment and recommendation from the appropriate state or local
law enforcement agency.
   13973. Upon presentation of any such claim, the Board of
Control shall fix a time and place for the hearing of the claim,
and shall mail notices thereof to interested persons or agencies
and to the Attorney General. At the hearing, the board shall
receive recommendations from the Attorney General and law
enforcement agencies, and evidence showing:
    (a) The nature of the crime committed by the apprehended
criminal or prevented by the action of the private citizen, or
the nature of the action of the private citizen in rescuing a
person in immediate danger of injury or death as a result of
fire, drowning, or other catastrophe, and the circumstances
involved;
    (b) That the actions of the private citizen substantially and
materially contributed to the apprehension of a criminal, the
prevention of a crime, or the rescuing of a person in immediate
danger of injury or death as a result of fire, drowning, or
other catastrophe;
    (c) That as a direct consequence, the private citizen in-
curred personal injury or damage to property or died;
    (d) The extent of such injury or damage for which the
claimant is not compensated from any other source;
    (e) Such other evidence as the board may require.
   If the board determines, on the basis of such evidence, that
the state should indemnify the claimant for the injury, death,
or damage sustained, it shall submit a report of the facts and
its conclusion to the Legislature, and a recommendation that
an appropriation be made by the Legislature for the purposes
of indemnifying the claimant. In no event shall a claim be
approved by the board under this article in excess of five
thousand dollars ($5,000).
   13974. The Board of Control is hereby authorized to make
all needful rules and regulations consistent with the law for
the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this act.
    SEC. 4. Title 5 (commencing with Section 13600) of P a r t 4
of the Penal Code is repealed.
   SEC. 5. It is the intent of the Legislature, if the additions
of Article 2 (commencing with Section 13970) to Chapter 5
 of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Government Code proposed by
both this bill and S.B. 368 are enacted, that both additions be
 given effect and incorporated in Article 2 in the form set forth
 in Section 3.5 of this act. Therefore, in the event S.B. 368 is
 enacted and adds Article 2, Section 3.5 of this act shall become
 operative at the same time that Article 2 as added by S.B. 368
 becomes operative, and at that time, Article 2 (commencing
 with Section 13970) of Chapter 5 of Part 4 of Division 3 of
 the Government Code as added by Section 3 of this act is
repealed.
2940                 STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                 rQJj. 1 4 3 2

                         CHAPTBE 1432
   An act to amend Section 767 of the Education Code, relating
             to county superintendents of schools.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

 The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 767 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   767. On the effective date of the amendment to this section
adopted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
or as soon thereafter as practicable, the salaries of the county
superintendents of schools shall be computed in the following
manner.
   For each of the eight classes of counties the amount which is
the statewide average of teachers' salaries shall be multiplied
by the amount which is the adjustment factor for the particu-
lar class of county, as prescribed by this section. The product
so obtained shall be the salary of the county superintendent
of schools for a county within that class.
   The adjustment factor for each of the eight classes of coun-
ties is set forth below opposite the class of county:

   (a) Class one                                                 3.561
   (b) Class two                                                 3.092
   (c) Class three                                               2.717
   (d) Class four                                                2.483
   (e) Class five                                                2.249
   (f) Class six                                                 2.013
   (g) Class seven                                               1.732
   (h) Class eight                                               1.357

   For the purposes of this section the statewide average of
teachers' salaries shall be deemed to be nine thousand seven
hundred twenty dollars ($9,720).
   The cost of salaries of any county superintendents of schools
required to be paid by this section shall be divided between
the state and the respective county as follows: For counties
within class one (1) the state shall pay sixty-nine percent
 (69%) and the county shall pay thirty-one percent ( 3 1 % ) ;
in all counties within class two (2), the state shall pay sixty-
nine percent (69%) and the county shall pay thirty-one per-
cent ( 3 1 % ) ; for counties within class three (3) the state shall
pay seventy-one percent (71%) and the county shall pay
twenty-nine percent (29%) ; for counties within class four (4)
the state shall pay seventy-two percent (72%) and the county
shall pay twenty-eight percent (28%) ; for counties within
class five (5) the state shall pay seventy-four percent (74%)
and the county shall pay twenty-six percent ( 2 6 % ) ; for
counties within class six (6) the state shall pay eighty-one
                        1969
Ch. 1433]                      REGULAR SESSION                        2941

percent (81%) and the county shall pay nineteen percent
 ( 1 9 % ) ; for counties within class seven (7) the state shall
pay eighty-eight percent (88%) and the county shall pay
twelve percent (12); for counties within class eight (8) the
state shall pay eighty-three percent (83%) and the county
shall pay seventeen percent (17%).


                           CHAPTER 1433
    An act to amend Section 13655 of the Education                Code,
            relating to classified school employees.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary o£ State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13655 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   13655. Any classified employee of any school district who
has been an employee of that district for a period of one
calendar year or more and who terminates such employment
for the sole purpose of accepting a position in another school
district and who subsequently accepts, within 30 days of ter-
mination of his former employment, such position, shall have
transferred with him to the second district the total amount of
earned leave of absence for illness or injury to which he is en-
titled under Section 13651.1. This transfer shall be in the same
manner as is provided for certificated employees.
   All or any part of the previous service, not separated by
a break in service greater than 30 days as of the last day
of paid service, may, if agreed to by the employing district,
be construed to have been served in the new district of em-
ployment for seniority purposes, except that such previous
service may not be counted, for seniority purposes, when posi-
tion or personnel reduction is ordered, for any reason, by the
board.
   No governing board shall adopt any policy or rule, written
or unwritten, which requires all classified employees, or any
individual classification, or group of classifications of em-
 ployees transferring to its district to waive any part or all
 benefits which they may be entitled to have transferred in
 accordance with this section.
    This section shall apply to districts that have adopted the
 merit system in the same manner and effect as if it were a
 part of Article 5 (commencing with Section 13701) of this
 chapter.
2942               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   rQh. ^434

                         CHAPTBE 1434
    An act to amend Section 18054.6 of the Education            Code,
             relating to transportation allowances.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 18054.6 of the Education Code is
 amended to read:
    18054.6. Of the funds allocated for expenditure for trans-
 portation in each fiscal year, there shall be reserved the
 amount necessary to provide the allowances prescribed by this
 section, but not to exceed one and one-half percent (1.5%) of
 the amount designated in subdivision (b) of Section 17303.5.
    The allowances prescribed by this section shall be provided
 in each fiscal year for any eligible school district upon appli-
 cation therefor submitted to the Superintendent of Public
 Instruction by the governing board of such district. Such
 allowance shall be provided only if the Superintendent of
 Public Instruction determines that the transportation expense
 of the district for the preceding fiscal year is substantially
 affected by sparsity of population in all or a portion of the
 district, such as to require that excessive distances be traveled
 to transport relatively few pupils to the regular day classes of
 the district.
    The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall allow to
 each eligible district the amount computed as follows:
    (a) He shall compute from the annual report of transporta-
tion expense of the district the portion of the total transporta-
tion expense which is due to travel for excessive distances to
transport relatively few pupils.
    (b) He shall compute from the annual report of transpor-
tation expense of the district, prior to the application of any
deficit under Section 18061, the percentage of the approved
transportation expense represented by the allowances to the
district provided by the other provisions of this article, ex-
elusive of any allowances provided by subdivision (a) of Sec-
tion 18056 and Section 18058.
    (c) He shall multiply the portion of the total transportation
expense computed under subdivision (a) by the percentage
computed under subdivision (b).
   The Superintendent of Public Instruction may adopt rules
and regulations defining "excessive distances" and "rela-
tively few pupils,'' and making provision for any other matter
he may deem essential to the effective administration of this
section.
                      1969
Ch 14361                     REGULAR SESSION                      2943

                          CHAPTBE 1435
      An act to amend Section 4322 of the Business and
         Professions Code, relating to prophylactics.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 4322 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
  4322. No person shall publicly advertise or display pro-
phylactic products, containers or packages. However, nothing
in this section prevents licensed pharmacists, physicians, and
public health officers from disseminating information on the
availability and use of prophylactics in the prevention of
venereal disease; neither does it prevent the publication of
professional literature and distribution through professional
channels of information on the availability and use of pro-
phylactics in the prevention of venereal disease.


                          CHAPTER 1436
An act to amend Section 1014 of the Evidence Code, to add
  Section 2907.5 to, and to add Article 9 (commencing with
  Section 2995) to Chapter 6.6 of Division 2 of, the Business
  and Professions Code, relating to professional corporations.
           [Approved by Governor September 4, 196 9. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1014 of the Evidence Code is amended
to read:
   1014. Subject to Section 912 and except as otherwise pro-
vided in this article, the patient, whether or not a party, has
a privilege to refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from
disclosing, a confidential communication between patient and
psychotherapist if the privilege is claimed by:
   (a) The holder of the privilege;
   (b) A person who is authorized to claim the privilege by
the holder of the privilege; or
   (c) The person who was the psychotherapist at the time of
the confidential communication, but such person may not claim
the privilege if there is no holder of the privilege in existence
or if he is otherwise instructed by a person authorized to per-
mit disclosure.
   The relationship of a psychotherapist and patient shall exist
between a psychological corporation as defined in Article 9
 (commencing with Section 2995) of Chapter 6.6 of Division
2 of the Business and Professions Code, and the patient to
    93—1954
2944               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. ±4$Q

whom it renders professional services, as well as between such
patients and psychotherapists employed by such corporations
to render services to such patients. The word " p e r s o n s " as
used in this subdivision includes partnerships, corporations,
associations, and other groups and entities.
   SEO. 2. Section 2907.5 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   2907.5. Nothing in Section 2907 shall be deemed to apply
to the acts and practices of a psychological corporation duly
certificated pursuant to the Moscone-Knox Professional Corpo-
ration Act, as contained in Part 4 (commencing with Section
13400) of Division 3 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code and
Article 9 (commencing with Section 2995) of Chapter 6.6 of
Division 2 of this code when the psychological corporation is
in compliance with (a) the Moscone-Knox Professional Corpo-
ration Act; (b) Article 9 (commencing with Section 2995) of
Chapter 6.6 of Division 2 of this code; and (c) all other stat-
utes and all rules and regulations now or hereafter enacted or
adopting pertaining to such corporation and the conduct of its
affairs.
   SEC. 3. Article 9 (commencing with Section 2995) is added
to Chapter 6.6 of Division 2 of the Business and Professions
Code, to read:

            Article 9.   Psychological Corporations
    2995. A psychological corporation is a corporation which
 is registered with the Psychology Examining Committee of
 the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of California
 and has a currently effective certificate of registration from
such committee pursuant to the Moscone-Knox Professional
 Corporation Act, as contained in Part 4 (commencing with
 Section 13400) of Division 3 of Title 1 of the Corporations
 Code and this article. Subject to all applicable statutes, rules,
and regulations, such psychological corporation is entitled to
practice psychology. The governmental agency referred to in
the Moscone-Knox Professional Corporation Act is the Psy-
chology Examining Committee of the Board of Medical Ex-
aminers of the State of California. As used in this article,
the "committee" is the Psychology Examining Committee of
the Board of Medical Examiners of the State of California.
   2995.2. An applicant for registration as a psychological cor-
poration shall supply to the committee all necessary and perti-
nent documents and information requested by the committee
concerning the applicant's plan of operation, including, but
not limited to, a copy of its articles of incorporation, certified
by the Secretary of State, a copy of its bylaws, certified by
the secretary of the corporation, the name and address of the
corporation, the names and addresses of its officers, directors,
shareholders, and employees who will render professional serv-
ices, the address of each office, and any fictitious name or names
which the corporation intends to use. The committee may pro-
                    1969
Ch. 14361                  REGULAR SESSION                 2945

vide forms of application. If the committee finds that the
corporation is duly organized and existing pursuant to the
General Corporation Law, that each officer (except an assistant
secretary or an assistant treasurer), director, shareholder, and
each employee who will render professional services is a li-
censed person as denned in the Moscone-Knox Professional
Corporation Act, and that from the application it appears
that the affairs of the corporation will be conducted in com-
pliance with law and the rules and regulations of the com-
mittee, the committee shall, upon payment by the applicant
of the registration fee in such amount as it may determine,
issue a certificate of registration. The application shall be
signed and verified by an officer of the corporation.
   2995.4. Within such time as the committee may by rule
provide, the psychological corporation shall report in writing
to the committee any change in directors, officers, employees
performing professional services, and share ownership, and
amendments to its articles of incorporation and bylaws.
   2995.6. Each psychological corporation shall file with the
committee annually and at such other times as the committee
may require a report containing such information pertaining
to qualification and compliance with the statutes, rules, and
regulations referred to in Section 2907.5 as the committee
may determine. The fee for filing such a report shall be fixed
by the committee. All reports shall be signed and verified by
an officer of the corporation.
   2995.8. The name of a psychological corporation and any
name or names under which it may be rendering professional
services shall contain and be restricted to the name or the last
name of one or more of the present, prospective, or former
shareholders, and shall include one of the words specified in
subdivision (c) of Section 2902 and the word "corporation"
 or wording or abbreviations denoting corporate existence.
    2996. Except as provided in Section 13403 of the Corpora-
tions Code, relating to the Moscone-Knox Professional Cor-
poration Act. each director and each officer of a psychological
corporation, except an assistant secretary and an assistant
treasurer, shall be a licensed person as defined in the Profes-
 sional Corporation Act.
    2996.2. The income of a psychological corporation attribut-
able to professional services rendered while a shareholder is a
disqualified person (as defined in the Moscone-Knox Profes-
sional Corporation Act) shall not in any manner accrue to the
benefit of such shareholder or his shares in the psychological
 corporation.
    2996.5. A psychological corporation shall not do or fail to
 do any act the doing of which or the failure to do which would
 constitute unprofessional conduct under any statute, rule, or
regulation now or hereafter in effect. In the conduct of its
 practice, it shall observe and be bound by such statutes, rules,
2946               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [QJ1_ 1437

and regulations to the same extent as a person holding a
license under Section 2948.
   The committee shall have the same powers of suspension,
revocation, and discipline against a psychological corporation
as are now or hereafter authorized by Section 2960, or by any
other similar statute against individual licensees; provided,
however, that proceedings against a psychological corporation
shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing
with Section 11500) of P a r t 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the
Government Code, and the committee shall have all the powers
granted therein.
   2996.6. The committee may formulate and enforce rules
and regulations to carry out the purposes and objectives of this
article, including rules and regulations requiring (a) that
the articles of incorporation or bylaws of a psychological cor-
poration shall include a provision whereby the capital stock of
such corporation owned by a disqualified person (as denned
in the Moscone-Knox Professional Corporation Act), or a de-
ceased person, shall be sold to the corporation or to the re-
maining shareholders of such corporation within such time as
such rules and regulations may provide, and (b) that a psy-
chological corporation as a condition of obtaining a certificate
pursuant to the Moscone-Knox Professional Corporation Act
and this article shall provide adequate security by insurance
or otherwise for claims against it by its patients arising out
of the rendering of professional services.


                         CHAPTBE 1437
        An act to add Section 42275 to the Vehicle Code,
              relating to the Motor Vehicle Fund.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 42275 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
read:
   42275. Notwithstanding any other provision in this chap-
ter, the State Controller may at any time after the 20th
day of January of each calendar year transfer in advance
moneys not needed for immediate use from the Motor Vehicle
Fund to the State Highway Fund for the purpose of leveling,
as nearly as possible, the monthly cash received in a fiscal year
by the State Highway Fund, thereby providing the opportu-
nity for more efficient use by the California Highway Commis-
sion of moneys appropriated for state highway purposes, such
transfers shall be made at times and in amounts mutually
agreed to by the State Controller and the Director of Public
"Works. However, if necessary, the Controller may, after at least
                        1969
Ch. 1438]                      feEGTILAR SESSION                  294?

15 days' prior notice, transfer back to the Motor Vehicle F u n d
amounts transferred to the State Highway F u n d under this
section to pay costs incurred against other appropriations
from the Motor Vehicle Fund.


                           CHAPTBE 1438
      An act to amend Section 13353 of the Vehicle Code,
                  relating to chemical tests.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13353 of the Vehicle Code is amended
to read:
   13353. (a) Any person who drives a motor vehicle upon a
highway shall be deemed to have given his consent to a chem-
ical test of his blood, breath or urine for the purpose of deter-
mining the alcoholic content of his blood if lawfully arrested
for any offense allegedly committed while the person was
driving a motor vehicle under the influence of intoxicating
liquor. The test shall be incidental to a lawful arrest and ad-
ministered at the direction of a peace officer having reasonable
cause to believe such person was driving a motor vehicle upon
a highway while under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
Such person shall be told that his failure to submit to such a
chemical test will result in the suspension of his privilege to
operate a motor vehicle for a period of six months.
   The person arrested shall have the choice of whether the
test shall be of his blood, breath or urine, and he shall be
advised by the officer that he has such choice.
   Any person who is dead, unconscious, or otherwise in a
condition rendering him incapable of refusal shall be deemed
not to have withdrawn his consent and such tests may be ad-
ministered whether or not such person is told that his failure
to submit to the test will result in the suspension of his privi-
lege to operate a motor vehicle.
   (b) If any such person refuses the officer's request to submit
to a chemical test, the department, upon receipt of the officer's
sworn statement that he had reasonable cause to believe such
person had been driving a motor vehicle upon a highway while
under the influence of intoxicating liquor and that the person
had refused to submit to the test after being requested by the
officer, shall suspend his privilege to operate a motor vehicle
for a period of six months. No such suspension shall become
effective until 10 days after the giving of written notice
thereof, as provided for in subdivision (c).
   (c) The department shall immediately notify such person
in writing of the action taken and upon his request in writing
2948               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  r^fr, 1439

and within 15 days from the date of receipt of such re-
quest shall afford him an opportunity for a hearing in the
same manner and under the same conditions as provided in
Article 3 (commencing with Section 14100) of Chapter 3 of
this division. For the purposes of this section the scope of the
hearing shall cover the issues of whether the peace officer had
reasonable cause to believe the person had been driving a motor
vehicle upon a highway while under the influence of intoxi-
cating liquor, whether the person was placed under arrest,
whether he refused to submit to the test after being requested
by a peace officer, and whether, except for the persons de-
scribed in paragraph (a) above who are incapable of refusing,
he had been told that his driving privilege would be suspended
if he refused to submit to the test.
   An application for a hearing made by the affected person
within 10 days of receiving notice of the department's action
shall operate to stay the suspension by the department for a
period of 15 days during which time the department must af-
ford a hearing. If the department fails to afford a hearing
within 15 days, the suspension shall not take place until such
time as the person is granted a hearing and is notified of the
department's action as hereinafter provided. However, if the
affected person requests that the hearing be continued to a
date beyond the 15-day period, the suspension shall become
effective immediately upon receipt of the department's notice
that said request for continuance has been granted.
   If the department determines upon a hearing of the matter
to suspend the affected person's privilege to operate a motor
vehicle, the suspension herein provided shall not become effec-
tive until five days after receipt by said person of the depart-
ment's notification of such suspension.
   (d) Any person who is afflicted with hemophilia shall be
exempt from the blood test required by this section.
   (e) Any person who is afflicted with a heart condition and
is using an anticoagulant under the direction of a physician
and surgeon shall be exempt from the blood test required by
this section.
   (f) A person lawfully arrested for any offense allegedly
committed while the person was driving a motor vehicle under
the influence of intoxicating liquor may request the arresting
officer to have a chemical test made of the arrested person's
blood, breath or urine for the purpose of determining the alco-
holic content of such person's blood, and, if so requested, the
arresting officer shall have the test performed.


                        CHAPTER 1439
   An act to amend Section 53067 of the Government Code,
           relating to public construction contracts.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]
                         1969
Ch. 1440]                       REGULAR SESSION               2949

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 53067 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   53067. Payment on any contract with a local agency for
the creation, construction, alteration, repair, or improvement
of any public structure, building, road or other improvement,
of any kind which will exceed in cost a total of five thousand
dollars ($5,000) shall be made as the legislative body prescribes
upon estimates made and approved by the legislative body, but
progress payments shall not be made in excess of 95 percent of
the percentage of actual Avork completed plus a like percentage
of the value* of material delivered on the ground or stored
subject to or under the control of the local agency, and unused.
The local agency shall withhold not less than 5 percent of the
contract price until final completion and acceptance of the
project. However, at any time after 50 percent of the work
has been completed, if the legislative body finds that satisfac-
tory progress is being made, it may make any of the remaining
progress payments in full for actual work completed.


                            CHAPTER 1440
An act to amend Section 2682 of, and to add Article 8 (com-
  mencing with Section 2690) to Chapter 5.7 of Division 2 of,
  the Business and Professions Code, relating to physical
  therapy.
         [Approved by Governor September i, 1969 Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2682 of the Business and Professional
Code is amended to read:
   2682. There is in the State Treasury the Physical Therapy
Fund. All collections from persons licensed or seeking to be
licensed and corporations registered or seeking to be registered
under this chapter shall be paid by the board into such fund
after report to the State Controller at the beginning of each
month of the amount and source of the collections. All money
in the Physical Therapy F u n d is appropriated to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
   SEC. 2. Article 8 (commencing with Section 2690) is added
to Chapter 5.7 of Division 2 of the Business and Professions
Code, to read:

            Article 8.    Physical Therapy Corporations
  2690. A physical therapy corporation is a corporation
which is registered with the Board of Medical Examiners with
2950               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1440

reference to corporations rendering professional services as
physical therapists and has a currently effective certificate of
registration from the board pursuant to the Professional
 Corporation Act, as contained in Part 4 (commencing with
 Section 13400) of Division 3 of Title 1 of the Corporations
 Code, and this article. Subject to all applicable statutes, rules
and regulations, such physical therapy corporation is entitled
to practice physical therapy. With respect to a physical ther-
apy corporation, the governmental agency referred to in the
 Professional Corporation Act is the Board of Medical Exam-
 iners with reference to corporations rendering professional
services as physical therapists. As used in this article, the
 " b o a r d " refers to the Board of Medical ExamineA.
    2691. An applicant for registration as a physical therapy
 corporation shall supply to the board all necessary and per-
 tinent documents and information requested by the board
 concerning the applicant's plan of operation, including but
 not limited to a copy of its articles of incorporation, certified
 by the Secretary of State, a copy of its bylaws, certified by
 the secretary of the corporation, the name and address of the
corporation, the names and addresses of its officers, directors,
shareholders and employees who will render professional serv-
ices, the address of each office, and any fictitious name or
 names which the corporation intends to use. The board may
provide forms of application. If the board finds that the corpo-
ration is duly organized and existing pursuant to the General
 Corporation Law, that each officer (except an assistant secre-
tary or an assistant treasurer), director, shareholder and each
 employee who will render professional services is a licensed
 person as defined in the Professional Corporation Act, and
 that from the application it appears that the affairs of the
corporation will be conducted in compliance with law and the
rules and regulations of the board, the board shall upon pay-
ment of the registration fee in such amount as it may deter-
mine issue a certificate of registration. The application shall
be signed and verified by an officer of the corporation.
    2692. Within such time as the board may by rule provide,
the physical therapy corporation shall report in writing to
the board any change in directors, officers, employees perform-
ing professional services and share ownership, and amendments
to its articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    2693. Each physical therapy corporation shall file with
the board annually and at such other times as the board may
require a report containing such information pertaining to
qualification and compliance with provisions of law relating
to professional corporations as the board may determine. The
fee for filing such a report shall be fixed by the board. All
reports shall be signed and verified by an officer of the corpo-
ration.
    2693.5. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
name of a physical therapy corporation and any name or
                     1969
Ch. 1440]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2951

names under which it may be rendering professional services,
shall contain and be restricted to the name or the last name of
one or more of the present, prospective, or former sharehold-
ers, and shall include the words "physical t h e r a p y " and the
word "corporation," or wording or abbreviations denoting
corporate existence.
   2694. Except as provided in Section 13403 of the Corpora-
tions Code, relating to the Professional Corporation Act, each
director and each officer of a physical therapy corporation,
except an assistant secretary and an assistant treasurer, shall
be a licensed person as defined in the Professional Corporation
Act.
   2695. The income of a physical therapy corporation attrib-
utable to professional services rendered while a shareholder
is a disqualified person (as defined in the Professional Corpora-
tion Act) shall not in any manner accrue to the benefit of
such shareholder or his shares in the physical therapy corpora-
tion.
   2696. A physical therapy corporation shall not do or fail
to do any act the doing of which or the failure to do which
would constitute unprofessional conduct under any statute,
rule or regulation now or hereafter in effect. In the conduct
of its practice, it shall observe and be bound by such statutes,
rules and regulations to the same extent as a person holding
a license under this chapter. The board shall have the same
powers of suspension, revocation and discipline against a phys-
ical therapy corporation as are now or hereafter authorized
by Section 2660, or by any other similar statute against indi-
vidual licensees, provided, however, that proceedings against a
physical therapy corporation shall be conducted in accordance
with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1
of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and the
board shall have all the powers granted therein.
   The board may formulate and enforce rules and regulations
to carry out the purposes and objectives of this article, includ-
ing rules and regulations requiring (a) that the articles of
incorporation or bylaws of a physical therapy corporation shall
include a provision whereby the capital stock of such corpora-
tion owned by a disqualified person (as defined in the Pro-
fessional Corporation Act), or a deceased person, shall be sold
to the corporation or to the remaining shareholders of such
corporation within such time as such rules and regulations may
provide, and (b) that a physical therapy corporation as a con-
dition of obtaining a certificate pursuant to the Professional
Corporation Act and this article shall provide adequate se-
curity by insurance or otherwise for claims against it by its
patients arising out of the rendering of professional services.
2952                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      [QJ^ 144^

                          CHAPTER 1441
An act to repeal Section 20751.1 of the Education Code, relat-
  ing to maximum tax rates applicable to school districts.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION    1.   Section 20751.1 of the Education Code is re-
pealed.

                          CHAPTER 1442
   An act to add Sections 5020 and 5021 to the Vehicle Code,
                   relating to license plates.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 5020 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
read:
   5020. Any person holding an unexpired license for a class
D radio station in the Citizens Radio Service issued by the
Federal Communications Commission may, at the time he
makes application for an original or a renewal registration for
a passenger vehicle, also apply directly to the department
for special license plates, to be affixed to the passenger vehicle
for which registration is sought, on which, in lieu of the num-
bers otherwise prescribed by law, shall be inscribed the official
class D radio station call sign of the applicant as assigned by
the Federal Communications Commission.
   The applicant shall by satisfactory proof show that he is
the holder of an unexpired license, and, in addition to the
regular registration fee, may be charged a fee of twenty
dollars ($20) for each set of special plates when issued and
ten dollars ($10) each succeeding year the vehicle is registered.
Whenever the vehicle or the ownership of the vehicle for which
plates are issued is changed, a fee of twenty dollars ($20) may
be charged.
   SEC. 2. Section 5021 is added to the Vehicle Code, to read:
   5021. After the requirements for the registration of the
vehicle have been complied with, the department shall issue
such plates in lieu of the regular license plates. The depart-
ment shall not issue more than one set of special plates for
any licensed class D radio station in the Citizens Radio Serv-
ice.
                        1969
Ch. 14441                      REGULAR SESSION                    2953

                           CHAPTER 1443
An act to amend Section 12657 of, and to add Section 12648.7
         to, the Water Code, relating to flood control.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12648.7 is added to the Water Code,
to read .-
   12648.7. The project for flood protection on the North Fork
of the Feather Biver near Chester, Plumas County, is adopted
and authorized substantially in accordance with the recom-
mendations of the Chief of Engineers in House Document No.
314, 90th Congress, and adopted and authorized by the Act
of Congress approved August 13, 1968 (Public Law 90-483)
at an estimated cost to the state of such sums as may be ap-
propriated for state participation by the Legislature upon the
recommendation and advice of the Reclamation Board. This
authorization shall not be deemed to confer preference on this
project over the needs of other statewide programs in appro-
priations of available funds.
   SEC. 2. Section 12657 of the "Water Code is amended to
read:
   12657. Except as otherwise provided in Chapters 1 and 2
of this part, the Reclamation Board shall give assurances satis-
factory to the Secretary of the Army that the local coopera-
tion, required by Section 3 of the Act of Congress approved
December 22, 1944 (Public Law 534, 78th Congress, Second
Session), and Section 2 of the Act of Congress approved
Ausust 18, 194-1 (Public Law 228, 78th Congress, First Ses-
 sion), will be furnished by the state in connection with the
flood control projects authorized and adopted in Sections
 12648, 12648.1, 12648.2, 12648.3, 12648.4, 12648.5, 12648.6,
 12648.7, 12649.1, 12650, 12651, 12652, 12654, and 12656.5 and
 on any flood control projects on any stream flowing into or in
 the Sacramento Valley or the San Joaquin Valley heretofore
 or hereafter approved and authorized by Congress.


                               CHAPTER 1444
An act to amend Section 10782 of the Revenue and Taxation
  Code, and to add Section 9102.5 to the Vehicle Code, relating
  to schoolbus registration and license fees.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]
2954                STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA                rQn   1444

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 9102.5 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
 read:
    9102.5. In lieu of all other fees which are specified in this
 code, except fees for duplicate plates, certificates, or cards, a
 fee of ten dollars ($10) shall be paid for the registration
 and licensing of any privately owned schoolbus, as defined in
 Section 545 of this code, which is operated in accordance with
 the rules and regulations of the Department of Education ex-
 clusively in transporting school pupils, or school pupils and
 employees, of any public school or private nonprofit educa-
 tional organization pursuant to a contract between a public
 school district or nonprofit educational organization and the
 owner or operator of the schoolbus.
    This section shall not, however, be applicable to any school-
 bus which is operated pursuant to any contract which requires
 the public school district or nonprofit educational organization
 to pay any amount representing the costs of registration and
 weight fees unless and until the contract is amended to re-
 quire only the payment of an amount representing the fee re-
 quired by this section.
    SEC. 2. Section 10782 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code is
 amended to read:
    10782. (a) The license fee imposed by this part does not
 apply to any vehicle operated by the state, or by any county,
 city and county, city, district, or political subdivision of the
 state, or the United States, as a lessee under a lease, lease-sale,
 or rental-purchase agreement which grants possession of the
 vehicle to the lessee for a period of 30 consecutive days or
 more.
   This subdivision does not apply to any vehicle leased under
a lease, lease-sale, or rental-purchase agreement made after
February 5, 1940, which is used or maintained for the trans-
portation of persons for hire, compensation, or profit.
    (b) The license fee imposed by this part does not apply to
any privately owned schoolbus, as defined in Section 545 of
the Vehicle Code, which is operated in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the Department of Education exclu-
sively in transporting school pupils, or school pupils and em-
ployees, of any public school or private nonprofit educational
organization pursuant to a contract between a public school
district or nonprofit educational organization and the owner
or operator of the schoolbus.
   This subdivision shall not, however, be applicable to any
schoolbus which is operated pursuant to any contract which
requires the public school district or nonprofit educational
organization to pay any amount representing the costs of reg-
istration and weight fees unless and until the contract is
amended to require only the payment of an amount repre-
senting the fee required by this section.
                        1969
Ch. 1445]                      REGULAR SESSION                    2955

                           CHAPTEK 1445
An act to add Section 1808.5 to the Vehicle Code and to amend
  Section 10850 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating
  to blind drivers.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1808.5 is added to the Vehicle Code,
to read:
   1808.5. All records of the department relating to the phys-
ical or mental condition of any person are confidential and not
open to public inspection.
   No provision of this article shall in any way limit the right
of the department to cooperate with the Department of Social
Welfare pursuant to Section 10850 of the Welfare and Insti-
tutions Code as to persons eligible for or receiving aid to the
blind.
   SEC. 2. Section 10850 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
is amended to read:
   10850. Except as otherwise provided in this section, all
applications and records concerning any individual made or
kept by any public officer or agency in connection with the
administration of any provision of this code relating to any
form of public social services for which grants-in-aid are re-
ceived by this state from the United States government shall
be confidential, and shall not be open to examination for any
purpose not directly connected with the administration of such
public social service; provided, however, that any agency hav-
ing custody of such records may make the disbursement rec-
ords available to the district attorney upon his request. The
information thus obtained shall be made available to the dis-
trict attorney for the official conduct of his office and shall not
be used for any other purpose.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
publish or disclose or permit or cause to be published or dis-
closed any list of persons receiving public social services. Ex-
cept for purposes directly connected with the administration
of public social services, no person shall publish, disclose, or
use or permit or cause to be published, disclosed, or used any
confidential information pertaining to an applicant or recip-
ient. Any Adolation of this paragraph is a misdemeanor.
   The Department of Social Welfare shall inform the Depart-
ment of Motor Vehicles of the names, birth dates, and ad-
dresses of all applicants or recipients of aid to the blind. The
Department of Motor Vehicles, upon receipt of such informa-
tion shall inform the Department of Social Welfare of any
such applicant or recipient of aid to the blind who holds a
valid California driver's license.
2956                  STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 l"Q]1- 1 4 4 6

   The department may make rules and regulations governing
the custody, use and preservation of all records, papers, files
and communications pertaining to the administration of the
laws relating to public social services. The rules and regulations
shall be binding on all departments, officials and employees
of the state, or of any political subdivision of the state and
may provide for giving information to or exchanging infor-
mation with agencies, public or private, which are engaged in
planning, providing or securing social services for or in behalf
of recipients or applicants; and for making case records avail-
able for research purposes, provided, that such research will
not result in the disclosure of the identity of applicants for
or recipients of public social services.
   Any person, including every public officer and employee, who
knowingly secures or possesses, other than in the course of of-
ficial duty, an official list or a list compiled from official sources,
published or disclosed in violation of this section, of persons
who have applied for or who have been granted any form of
public social services for which state or federal funds are made
available to the counties is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   10851. The board of supervisors in each county may au-
thorize the destruction or disposition of the case history, or any
part thereof, of any recipient of public assistance who has
not received such assistance from the county for a period of
five years prior thereto.

                          CHAPTEK 1446
An act to add Article 8.6 (commencing with Section 8.93.20)
  to Chapter 4 of Division 3 of the Education Code, relating
  to instructional television.
           [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 8.6 (commencing with Section 893.20)
is added to Chapter 4 of Division 3 of the Education Code,
to read:

       Article 8.6.   Instructional Television Pilot Program
   893.20. The Legislature hereby declares its intent and pur-
pose to realize to the fullest possible extent those potential
benefits to the education, prosperity, and well-being of the
people of California which may be realized through the use
of television for educational purposes, and to make possible
the most effective use of such funds as may become available
from various sources for such purposes.
   893.21. A two-year pilot program providing classes for
adults by television for home reception shall be established,
commencing with the fiscal year 1970-1971, by the Superin-
                    1969
Ch. 1446]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2957

tendent of Public Instruction in a school district within a
county with a population in excess of 6,000,000 as determined
by the 1960 decennial census.
   Prom moneys which may be appropriated therefor, the Su-
perintendent of Public Instruction shall determine and dis-
burse to the school district maintaining the pilot program,
allowances for the actual excess current expenses thereof dur-
ing the fiscal year, but such allowances shall not exceed one-
half of the cost to the district of providing such classes
during the fiscal year, and shall in no event exceed one hun-
dred twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000) for each fiscal
year. For such purposes, the Superintendent of Public In-
struction shall define the phrase "actual excess current ex-
pense," and shall include in such definition the cost of prepa-
ration, distribution, collections, and processing of materials,
tests, and written reports, and the cost of lesson planning.
   In the event that the school district cancels its pilot pro-
gram, it shall promptly repay to the state the allowances
disbursed to it for such program.
   The State Board of Education shall have the power to adopt
all rules and regulations necessary for the effective administra-
tion of this article.
   The provisions of this act shall be operative until June 30,
1972.
   The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall, no later
than the fifth legislative day of the 1972 Eegular Session, sub-
mit to the Legislature a report concerning the operation of the
classes for adults and the state financial support provided
therefor, under this act, and shall include in his report his
recommendations concerning legislation which may be appro-
 priate in connection with the same. The report shall include
 an evaluation of the instructional effectiveness of the classes
 for adults based upon a survey of the actual participation of
 persons in the classes. The extent of participation of school-
 age minors with adults in the home shall be included in the
 report.
    SEC. 2. The State Board of Education, in approving any
 state plan for the administration of federal funds to be re-
 ceived pursuant to the provisions of Title I I I of the Elemen-
 tary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, shall include the
 instructional television pilot program contained in Article 8.6
 (commencing with Section 893.20) of Chapter 4 of Division 3
 of the Education Code in the state plan and shall assure that
 in the 1970-1971 and 1971-1972 fiscal years an amount of one
hundred twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000) shall be re-
 served and allocated in each of such fiscal years for the pur-
 poses of Article 8.6 (commencing with Section 893.20) and
 shall be expended according to the following schedule:
    (a) One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) in each fiscal
 year, 1970-1971 and 1971-1972, for allowances to be provided
 a school district pursuant to Article 8.6 (commencing witb
2958                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  rQJ1_ ^447

Section 893.20) of Chapter 4 of Division 3 of the Education
Code.
   (b) Twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) in each fiscal
year, 1970-1971 and 1971-1972, for the Department of Educa-
tion in administering a program pursuant to Article 8.6 (com-
mencing with Section 893.20) of Chapter 4 of Division 3 of
the Education Code.

                         CHAPTER 1447
       An act to add Section 6360 to the Public Resources
                     Code, relating to land.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 6360 is added to the Public Resources
 Code, to read:
    6360. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
 boundary line of land lying within the Sacramento-San Joa-
 quin Delta (as defined in Section 12220 of the Water Code)
 bordering upon tidal waters or upon a navigable stream is, for
 the purpose of determining boundary location, conclusively
 presumed to be located at the ordinary high-water mark when
 such land borders on tidal lands not validly patented into
 private ownership and at the low-water mark when such land
 borders upon a navigable stream where there is no tide or
 where such lands consist of tidelands validly patented into
 private ownership, as such high- or low-water mark exists
 upon the effective date of this section and from time to time
 thereafter where, for a period of not less than 30 years con-
 tinuously, prior to the effective date of this section, the follow-
ing facts exist:
    (a) The land including any accretion thereto has been oc-
cupied openly and notoriously by persons claiming title thereto
or their predecessors. Land shall be deemed occupied for the
purpose of this section when protected by a substantial en-
closure; or when usually cultivated; or when improvements
have been constructed thereon by the persons claiming such*
title or their predecessors, including, in the case of improve-
ments located waterward of the landward toe of a levee, that
land surrounding such improvements as is incidental to the
usual and reasonable use of the improvements.
    (b) Taxes (state, county or municipal) have been levied and
assessed during such period on such land including any ac-
cretion thereto and such persons or their predecessors have
paid all such taxes during such period. The requirements of
this subparagraph shall be deemed to have been met during
any period when the owner or claimant to such land was
exempt from ad valorem taxation.
                     1969
Ch 14481                    REGULAR SESSION                   2959

    (c) The persons claiming title or their predecessors have
 based their claim upon a deed or map, or both, describing or
 depicting the land including any accretion thereto, which deed
 or map has been recorded in the office of the recorder of the
 county in which the land is situated.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed as vesting in an
 adjacent or contiguous landowner title to any lands which
 have been artificially filled by the landowner or his predeces-
 sors or any public agency or which have attached to his lands
 as a result of an avulsive change in the shoreline or as the
 result of an avulsive change in the course of, or an artificial
 rechannelization of, any river or stream, or divesting such
 landowner of any title which he may have to any lands which
 have been artificially dredged by the landowner or his prede-
 cessors or any public agency or which have detached from his
land as a result of an avulsive change in the shoreline or as
 the result of an avulsive change in the course of, or an arti-
ficial rechannelization of, any river or stream.
   SEC. 2. The State of California and the people thereof
are hereby declared to have a primary and supreme interest
in securing to the inhabitants and holders of title to lands
within the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, as defined in Sec-
tion 12220 of the Water Code, and to the State of California,
the maximum possible certainty as to location of the boundary
lines between private ownerships and state lands within the
delta where the private lands border upon tidal waters or a
navigable stream, and in particular to resolve certain well-
settled conditions on the basis of the present waterline. The
conditions prevailing within the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta in regard to the accretion or erosion of land are unique
as compared to the conditions prevailing in other portions of
the State of California, and the enactment of this special law
applicable to the delta is therefore necessary for the protec-
tion of public and private property therein and for the public
good.

                        CHAPTER 1448
An act to amend Section 100160.5 of the Public Utilities Code,
                  relating to rapid transit.
        [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
               Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 100160.5 of the Public Utilities Code
as added by Senate Bill No. 49 of the 1969 Regular Session is
amended to read:
  100160.5. The district may operate charter bus service sub-
ject to the following limitations:
2960               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   TQfo ^ 4 4 9

   (a) No bus equipment which is designed solely for charter
service shall be purchased. A bus equipped with a toilet or
undernoor baggage compartment shall be deemed charter
equipment.
   (b) The board shall hold a public hearing prior to adopting
a charter rate schedule or any amendment thereof. Notice of
the hearing shall be mailed to each charter-party carrier oper-
ating within the district at least 30 days prior to the hearing.
The notice shall include the proposed charter rate schedule.
At the close of the public hearing the board may adopt charter
rate schedules which shall not be less than the average for the
three largest private charter-party carriers operating similar
service in the district.
   (c) Charter service shall originate and terminate within the
area served by the district unless a private charter-party car-
rier requests the district to provide service beyond the area
served by the district.

                        CHAPTER 1449
An act to amend Sections 68500.5, 68841, 68901, and 69140 of,
  and to add Section 68512 to, the Government Code, relating
  to courts.
         [Approved by Governor September i, 196 9. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 68500.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   68500.5. The annual salary of the Administrative Director
of the Courts is thirty-six thousand six hundred eighty-seven
dollars ($36,687) and shall be paid out of appropriations for
the support of the Judicial Council. He shall have the same
qualifications as required by Section 15 of Article VI of the
Constitution for a judge of a court of appeal.
   SEC. 2. Section 68841 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   68841. The annual salary of the Clerk of the Supreme
Court and ex officio Secretary of the Judicial Council is
twenty-six thousand five hundred sixty-five dollars ($26,565).
   SEC. 3. Section 68901 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   68901. The annual salary of the reporter of the decisions
of the Supreme Court and of the courts of appeal is twenty-
three thousand five hundred forty-six dollars ($23,546). The
salaries of the assistants shall be established subject to ap-
proval of the Department of Finance as provided in Section
18004 of the Government Code. Bach of the persons so ap-
pointed shall serve in full-time employment.
Ch. 1450]           •1969 REGULAR SESSION                      2961
   SEC. 4. Section 69140 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   69140. Each court of appeal shall appoint a clerk who
serves at its pleasure. In addition to the duties prescribed by
law, each clerk shall perform such duties as are required of
him by the rules, orders, and practices of the appointing court.
The officers provided for herein shall receive an annual salary
as follows:
   (a) Clerk of the First and Second Appellate Districts:
twenty-one thousand seven hundred thirty-five dollars ($21,-
735).
   (b) Clerk of the Fourth Appellate District: twenty-thou-
sand eight hundred thirty dollars ($20,830).
   (c) Clerk of the third and Fifth Appellate Districts: nine-
teen thousand nine hundred twenty-four dollars ($19,924).
   SEC. 5. Section 68512 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   68512. The Chairman of the Judicial Council, with the ap-
proval of the Director of Finance, may adjust the salaries of
the following judicial officers by the same percent as is granted
state employees of comparable salary level as a general salary
increase after July 1, 1969 -.
   (a) The Clerk of the Supreme Court whose salary is set
by Section 68841.
   (b) The reporter of decisions for the Supreme Court and
of the courts of appeal whose salary is set by Section 68901.
   (c) The clerks of the courts of appeal whose salaries are
set by Section 69140.

                        CHAPTER 1450
   An act making an appropriation for participation in the
          West Coast Air Corridor Study Program.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund in the State Treasury the sum of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) to the Department of Aeronautics for ex-
penditure in participating in the West Coast Air Corridor
Study Program to study, evaluate and eventually test short-
haul systems of air transportation.
2962               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  tQH. 1451

                        CHAPTER 1451
An act to add Sections 437.7, 437.8, 437.9, 438, 438.1, 438.2,
  438.3, 438.4, 438.5, 1402.1, and 1402.2 to the Health and
  Safety Code, and to add Sections 7003.1 and 7003.2 to the
  Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to health facilities.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. This act establishes a permanent basis for vol-
untary area planning to guide communities in developing hos-
pitals and other health facilities of a desirable size and loca-
tion and commitment to community service purposes. Through
continued coordinated development of hospitals and related
health facilities and services, including facilities licensed by
 the Department of Mental Hygiene, the people of the State of
 California can obtain more effective service and can save sub-
stantial sums in capital costs and operating expenses.
   Area planning for hospitals and related health facilities and
services is complex and includes sensitive relationships between
consumers, professional groups, institutions, and governments.
   The purpose of this act is to establish a public policy that
each hospital and related health facility, including facilities
licensed by the Department of Mental Hygiene, proposed to be
constructed, expanded, or altered for the purpose of increasing
bed capacity or changing license category shall in good faith
review its plans and program with an approved voluntary
area health planning agency or voluntary local health planning
agency and obtain its objective reviews and recommendations
before proceeding to licensure. I t shall also be a purpose of
this act that all state and local governmental zoning and
planning agencies shall, within the limits of statutory author-
ity, give consideration to, but not be bound by, the actions,
recommendations and decisions of such approved voluntary
area health planning agency or voluntary local health plan-
ning agency.
   SEC. 2. Section 437.7 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   437.7. In order to assure availability of objective and im-
partial review by planning groups (referred to as voluntary
area health planning agencies) of hospitals and related facili-
ties, including facilities licensed by the Department of Mental
Hygiene, or proposed projects for new, additional or revised
hospital and related health facility projects, including facili-
ties licensed by the Department of Mental Hygiene, the Health
Planning Council, from time to time, shall approve no more
than one voluntary area health planning agency for any desig-
nated area of the state, provided such group shall meet the
following criteria:
                    1969
Ch. 1451]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2963

   (a) Shall be incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and be
controlled by a board of directors consisting of a majority rep-
resenting the public and local government as consumers of
health services with the balance being broadly representative
of the providers of health services and the health professions.
   (b) Shall review information on utilization of hospitals and
related health facilities.
   (c) Shall develop principles for the determination of com-
munity need and desirability to guide hospitals and related
health facilities in acting in the public interest. Such prin-
ciples shall be consistent with the general guidelines developed
by the Health Planning Council in accordance with Section
437.8.
   (d) Shall conduct public meetings in which members of the
health professions and consumers will be encouraged to par-
ticipate.
   (e) Shall review individual proposals for the construction
of new or additional hospital and related health facilities, the
conversion of one type of facility to a different category of
licensure or the creation or expansion of new areas of
service, and make decisions as to the need and desirability for
the particular proposal in accordance with the principles de-
veloped pursuant to subdivision (c).
   (f) Individual proposal reviews shall be in accordance with
administrative procedures established by the Health Planning
Council, which shall include, but need not be limited t o :
   (1) A public hearing.
   (2) Reasonable notice.
   (3) Right to representation by counsel.
   (4) Right to present oral and written evidence and con-
front and cross-examine opposing witnesses.
   (5) Availability of transcript at applicant's expense.
   (6) Written findings of fact and recommendations to be
delivered to applicant and filed with the State Department
of Public Health as a public record.
   (g) Shall have a plan to finance the procedure which shall
include, but not necessarily be limited to, filing fees and
charges for processing and appeal.
   Voluntary area health planning agencies may divide their
areas into local areas for purposes of more efficient health fa-
cility planning, with the approval of the Health Planning
 Council. Such local areas shall be of a geographic size and
contain adequate population to insure a broad base for plan-
ning decisions. Each local area shall contain a voluntary local
health planning agency which shall meet the criteria in sub-
divisions (a) through (g) of this section.
   An organization which meets the criteria in subdivisions (a)
through (g) of this section may make application to its volun-
tary area health planning agency for designation as a volun-
tary local health planning agency for a designated area. After
a complete application has been received, the area agency shall
2964              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQn_ ^ 4 5 ^

reach a decision concerning the application. The decision, or
lack of decision, of the area agency may be appealed to the
Health Planning Council. Any appeal shall be made within
30 days of the decision or lack of decision.
   Approval of voluntary area and local area health planning
agencies, adoption of statewide general principles for planning
and the adoption of administrative procedures for voluntary
area and local area health planning agencies shall be made by
the Health Planning Council only after notice and public
hearing.
   SEC. 3. Section 437.8 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   437.8. The Health Planning Council shall develop general
principles to guide voluntary area and local area health plan-
ning agencies in the performance of their responsibilities under
Section 437.7. These principles shall provide for consideration
of the following factors and may provide other guidelines not
inconsistent herewith :
   (a) The need for health care services in the area and the
requirements of the population to be served by the applicant;
   (b) The availability and adequacy of health care services in
the area's existing facilities which currently conform to fed-
eral and state standards;
   (c) The availability and adequacy of other services in the
area such as preadmission, ambulatory or home care services
which may serve as alternatives or substitutes for the whole
or any part of the services to be provided by the proposed
facility;
   (d) The possible economies and improvement in service that
may be derived from operation of joint, cooperative, or shared
health care resources;
   (e) The development of comprehensive services for the com-
munity to be served. Such services may be either direct or
indirect through formal affiliation with other health programs
in the area, and include preventive, diagnostic, treatment and
rehabilitation services. Preference shall be given to health
facilities which will provide the most comprehensive health
services and include outpatient and other integrated services
useful and convenient to the operation of the facility and the
community.
   SEC. 4. Section 437.9 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
  437.9. Every application to a voluntary area or local area
health planning agency shall include at least the following in-
formation :
   (a) The general geographic area to be served;
   (b) The population to be served, broken down by age and
sex, as well as projections of population growth, broken down
by age and sex;
   (c) The anticipated demand for the health care service or
services to be provided;
                    l969
Ch. 1451]                  REGULAR SESSION                 2gg5

   (d) A description of the service or services to be provided;
   (e) Utilization of existing programs within the area to be
served offering the same or similar health care services;
   (f) The benefit to the community which will result from
the development of the facility as well as the anticipated im-
pact on other institutions offering the same or similar services
in the area.
   SEC. 5. Section 438 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   438. Every application to the voluntary area health plan-
ning agency shall be complete before it is considered by the
agency. After a complete application has been received, the
agency shall reach a decision within 90 days of its receipt,
provided that such period shall be extended by any additional
time required because of continuance or continuances of the
time set for hearings requested by the applicant or caused by
the failure of the applicant to comply with the published pro-
cedures of the voluntary area health planning agency.
  An application from an applicant in an area which has a
voluntary local health planning agency shall be made to that
agency. The application shall be complete before it is consid-
ered by the agency. After a complete application has been re-
ceived, the agency shall make a recommendation to its area
agency within 90 days of its receipt, provided that such period
shall be extended by any additional time required because of
continuance or continuances of time set for hearings requested
by the applicant or caused by the failure of the applicant to
comply with the published procedures of the voluntary local
health planning agency. The recommendation or lack of rec-
ommendation of the local agency shall be reported to its area
agency immediately after the recommendation has been reached
or the time set forth in the first paragraph of this section has
Japsed. The area agency will have 30 days in which to review
the recommendation or lack of recommendation of its local
agency and may approve, modify, or reject it. Failure to act
within 30 days shall be deemed approval of the local agency
recommendation by the area agency. The result of either action
or failure to act by the area agency on a recommendation or
lack of recommendation will be its decision on the application.
   SEC. 6. Section 438.1 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   438.1. The decision or lack of decision of a voluntary area
health planning agency or the decision or lack of decision of
the consumer members of a voluntary area health planning
agency acting as an appeals body may be appealed by the ap-
plicant or by more than one-third of the members of the board
of directors of the voluntary area health planning agency. The
appeal by the members of the board shall be made directly to
the Health Planning Council. The appeal by the applicant shall
be made to the consumer members of another voluntary area
health planning agency as previously designated by the Health
2966               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             \Gh. 1451

 Planning Council. The Health Planning Council, on a periodic
 basis, shall designate the voluntary area health planning
 agency or agencies, the consumer members of which shall be
 the appeals body or bodies for another voluntary area health
 planning agency; provided that such agencies shall not be the
 appeals body or bodies for each other.
    The decision of a voluntary area health planning agency
 upon reviewing the recommendation or lack of recommenda-
 tion of a voluntary local health planning agency may be ap-
 pealed by more than one-third of the members of the board of
 directors of the voluntary local health planning agency. The
 appeal by the members of the board shall be made directly to
 the Health Planning Council. The Health Planning Council
 shall develop guidelines for appeal procedures for the volun-
tary area health planning agencies.
    SEC. 7. Section 438.2 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read:
    438.2. An appeal by an applicant shall be requested within
 30 days of the decision by the voluntary area health plan-
 ning agency. The appeal shall be decided within 90 days
 of the date that an appeal is requested, provided that the
period shall be extended by any additional time required be-
cause of any continuance or continuances of the time set for
 appeal requested by the appellant or caused by the failure
of the appellant to comply with the published procedures of
 the appeals panel.
    SEC. 8. Section 438.3 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read:
    438.3. An applicant may petition the Health Planning
 Council for a hearing on the decision on appeal. A petition for
hearing shall be made within 30 days of the appealed decision.
    The required number of members of the board of directors
may petition the Health Planning Council for a hearing on the
decision of the voluntary area health planning agency or the
decision or lack of decision of the consumer members of a
voluntary area health planning agency acting as an appeals
body. A petition for hearing shall be made within 30 days of
the decision of the voluntary area health planning agency or
the decision or lack of decision of the consumer members of
a voluntary health planning agency acting as an appeals body.
   The Health Planning Council shall grant a hearing if at
least one-third of the voting members of the council certify in
writing that they agree to a hearing. Such certification shall
be made within 60 days of the receipt of the petition for
hearing.
   If the required number of voting members agree to a hear-
ing, the council shall reach a decision within 90 days of the
date of agreement. At least one hearing shall be held on the
appeal, but it may be heard by a committee of the council
composed of at least three voting members, a majority of
whom shall be consumers. The final decision on the appeal shall
be made by the full council.
                    1969
Ch. 14511                  REGULAR SESSION                 2967

     SEC. 9. Section 438.4 is added to the Health and Safety
  Code, to read:
    438.4. The voluntary area health planning agency, acting
 upon an application originally or reviewing a recommendation
 of a voluntary local health planning agency or the consumer
 members of a voluntary area health planning agency acting as
 an appeals body, and the Health Planning Council shall make
 one of the following decisions:
     (a) Approve the application in its entirety;
     (b) Deny the application in its entirety;
     (c) Approve the application subject to modification by the
  applicant, as recommended by the body involved.
    A decision shall become final when all rights to appeal have
 been exhausted. Approval shall terminate 12 months after the
 date of such approval unless the applicant has commenced con-
 struction or conversion to a different license category and is
 diligently pursuing the same to completion as determined by
 the voluntary area health planning agency; or unless the ap-
 proval is extended by the voluntary area health planning
 agency for an additional period of up to 12 months upon the
showing of good cause for the extension.
    SEC. 10. Section 438.5 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read:
    438.5. Recognition of findings of fact, recommendations or
 decisions of voluntary area health planning agencies or vol-
untary local health planning agencies as to the need and de-
sirability of new or additional bed capacity or change of
license category of existing beds shall be recognized by local
governmental zoning and planning agencies as being in the
public interest and shall not be reversed except by a clear pre-
ponderance of the evidence in a particular case; provided that
such decisions were not appealed. If appealed, they shall be
recognized only to the extent that they have been finally af-
firmed on appeal.
    SEC. 11. Section 1402.1 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read:
    1402.1. In addition to the requirements of Section 1402,
any person, political subdivision of the state or governmental
agency desiring a license under the provisions of this chapter
which shall cover a new facility or additional bed capacity or
the conversion of existing bed capacity to a different license
category, except outpatient and emergency services, shall file
with the state department a verified statement on a form pre-
scribed, prepared, and furnished by the department con-
taining :
    (a) The date applicant filed its complete application for
new or additional bed capacity or conversion of an existing
bed capacity with the voluntary area health planning agency
or voluntary local health planning agency approved pursuant
to Section 437.7.
    (b) The date or dates the voluntary area health planning
agency or voluntary local health planning agency held a
2968              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              \Gh. 1451

public hearing or hearings on the proposal, and evidence
that the applicant participated in the hearing in accordance
with established procedures of such group.
    (c) The date the voluntary area health planning agency or
the consumer members of a voluntary area health planning
agency acting as an appeals body or the Health Planning
 Council made a final and favorable decision concerning the
new or additional bed capacity or conversion of facilities and
a statement that the time for appeal has expired, or in the
case of a modified approval, that the modifications have been
made, or
   (d) That the time allowed for decision has passed and no
decision has been made or that the voluntary area health
planning agency failed to act upon a lack of recommendation
by the voluntary local health planning agency within the time
allowed, or
   (e) That more than 12 months have expired since a de-
cision has been reached by the voluntary area health planning
agency.
   SEC. 12. Section 1402.2 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read:
   1402.2. The department may review but shall not approve
 any construction plans or issue any license under this chapter
which shall cover new or additional bed capacity or the con-
version of an existing bed capacity to a different license cate-
gory, except outpatient and emergency services, until the ap-
plicant has complied with the provisions of Section 1402.1.
   SEC. 13. Section 7003.1 is added to the Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:
   7003.1. In addition to the requirements of Section 7003,
any private institution desiring a license under the provisions
of this chapter which shall cover a new facility or additional
bed capacity or the conversion of existing bed capacity to a
different license category, except for outpatient and emergency
services, shall file with the department a verified statement on
a form prescribed, prepared and furnished by the department
containing:
   (a) The date applicant filed its complete application for
new or additional bed capacity or conversion of an existing
bed capacity with the voluntary area health planning agency
or voluntary local health planning agency approved pursuant
to Section 437.7 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (b) The date or dates the voluntary area health planning
agency or voluntary local health planning agency held a pub-
lic hearing or hearings on the proposal, and evidence that the
applicant participated in the hearing in accordance with es-
tablished procedures of such group.
   (c) The date the voluntary health planning agency, a vol-
untary area health planning agency acting as an appeals body
or the Health Planning Council made its final and favorable
decision concerning the new or additional bed capacity or con-
                    1969
Ch 14521                   REGULAR SESSION                      2969

version of facilities and a statement that the time for appeal
has expired, or in the case of a modified approval, that the
modifications have been made, or
   (d) That the time allowed for decision has passed and no
decision has been made or that the voluntary area health
planning agency failed to act upon a lack of recommendation
by the voluntary local health planning agency within the time
allowed, or
   (e) That more than 12 months have expired since a de-
cision has been reached by the voluntary area health planning
agency.
   SEC. 14. Section 7003.2 is added to the Welfare and Insti-
tutions Code, to read:
   7003.2. The department may review but shall not approve
any construction plans or issue any license under this chapter
which shall cover new or additional bed capacity or the con-
version of an existing bed capacity to a different category,
except for outpatient and emergency services, until the appli-
cant has complied with the provisions of Section 7003.1.
   SEC. 15. Within 90 days of the effective date of this act,
the Health Planning Council shall adopt guidelines pursuant
to Section 437.7 of the Health and Safety Code. By July 1,
1970, all voluntary area health planning agencies shall adopt
guidelines pursuant to Section 437.7 of such code. This act
shall not apply to applicants who have filed applications for
licenses, prior to January 1, 1970, which meet all requirements
and regulations of the appropriate state agency existing at the
time of application, including at least preliminary submission
of plans.
   SEC. 16. This act shall not apply to any facilities which
have been approved for federal or state funds pursuant to
Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 430) of P a r t 1 of Divi-
sion 1 of the Health and Safety Code prior to July 1, .1970.
   SEC. 17. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
the act which can be given effect without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.

                        CHAPTER 1452
An act to add Section 14105.5 to the Welfare and          Institutions
             Code, relating to medical assistance.
        [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
               Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 14105.5 is added to the Welfare and
Institutions Code, to read:
2970                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [Qfa 1453

   14105.5. The director shall make no payment for services to
any hospital facility which secures a license under the provisions
of Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 1400) of Division 2
of the Health and Safety Code or Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 7000) of Division 7 of this code after July 1,
1970, covering a new facility or additional bed capacity or
the conversion of existing bed capacity to a different license
category, unless such licensee received a favorable final
decision by the voluntary area health planning agency in the
area, the consumer members of a voluntary area health plan-
ning agency acting as an appeals body or the Health Planning
Council pursuant to Sections 437.7 to 438.5, inclusive, of the
Health and Safety Code; or unless the licensee had filed an
application for a license prior to January 1, 1970, and the ap-
plication met all then-existing requirements and regulations
of the appropriate state agency at the time of application in-
 cluding, at least, preliminary submission of plans.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative only if Assembly
Bill No. 1340 is enacted by the Legislature at its 1969 Regular
 Session.

                          CHAPTEE 1453
An act to add Article 2.8 (commencing with Section 13250)
  to Chapter 2 of Division 10 of the Education Code, relating
  to the New Careers in Education Program, and making an
  appropriation therefor.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

  I object to the $125,000 appropriation in Assembly Bill No. 1362, and I
hereby reduce said appropriation from $125,000 to $62,500.
  "With this reduction, I approve the bill.
                                            RONALD REAGAN, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 2.8 (commencing with Section 13250)
is added to Chapter 2 of Division 10 of the Education Code,
to read:

           Article 2.8.   New Careers in Education Act
   13250. It is the intent and purpose of the Legislature by
enacting this chapter to make provisions for a New Careers
Program to recruit and train persons who have completed
at least 60 units of college work in a junior college or a four-
year institution of higher education for teaching in low-income
elementary schools. I t is the further intent and purpose of
this chapter to provide a means by which capable persons
of low-income background may enter the teaching profession.
The New Careers Program is designed to provide practical
teaching experience in schools with high concentrations of low-
                    1969
Ch. 1453]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2971

income families, as determined by the Director of Compensa-
tory Education, concurrently with upper division academic
and professional education.
    13250.2. The University of California, the California State
Colleges, or any private institution of higher education may
participate in the program prescribed in this article.
    13250.4. Any school district may enter into an agreement
with the University of California, California State Colleges,
or any private institution of higher education to participate
in the New Careers Program prescribed in this article.
    13250.6. The State Department of Education may enter
into an agreement with a participating school district to pro-
vide training and to share administrative costs and salary
support in the New Careers Program prescribed in this article.
   A person selected to participate in the program prescribed
in this article shall be known as an " i n t e r n . "
    13250.8. Any person who has completed at least 60 units
of collegiate work and who has lived or worked extensively
in areas of high concentrations of low-income families, or is a
member of a minority racial or ethnic group who has lived
and worked extensively in low-income areas, shall be eligible
to be selected to participate in the program prescribed in this
article. An intern shall be selected on the basis of high teach-
ing potential and shall meet the personal qualifications for
the issuance of a credential prescribed in Section 13129. The
intern shall give reasonable evidence that he will teach for at
least two years following the training program in a school
in a low-income area.
    Eecruitment of interns for this program shall be primarily
from two groups: (1) junior college or lower division col-
lege students or other persons having completed 60 units of
college work and (2) teacher aides already employed under
 Sections 6481.5, 13253, or 13770 to 13777, inclusive, and other
programs providing training and teacher aide experience in
 the classroom setting.
    13250.10. An intern shall be enrolled in at least a 6-week,
 but not more than a 12-week, preservice program at the par-
 ticipating university, state college, or private institution of
 higher education.
    13250.12. The participating university, state college, or pri-
 vate institution of higher education and school district shall
 jointly select the interns and team leaders to participate in
 the program prescribed in this article.
    A team leader shall be an experienced teacher who has
 demonstrated capability in teaching educationally disadvan-
 taged pupils and shall be directly responsible to direct, aid,
 coordinate, and supervise interns in their internship pursuant
 to this article in the participating school district.
     13250.14. The team leader shall have at least 6 but not
 more than 10 interns under his supervision. The team leader
 and his interns shall assist in the teaching process in the
 participating school district.
2972               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQ^ I454

    13250.16. An intern shall enroll in a course of study at the
participating university", state college, or private institution of
 higher education which will lead to a baccalaureate degree and
 a teaching credential.
    13250.18. The team leader and his interns shall, in addition
to teaching duties, be afforded time for a teacher education
program to be carried out under the guidance of the team
 leader in cooperation with the participating university, state
 college, or private institution of higher education.
    13250.20. The participating school district shall pay at
least 10 percent, but not more than 90 percent, of the com-
pensation to be paid the following participants in the New
 Careers Program:
    (a) Team leaders, who shall receive compensation at a rate
the equivalent to that paid other experienced teachers in the
participating school district with similar professional prepara-
tion and responsibilities.
    (b) Interns, who shall receive seventy-five dollars ($75) a
week, plus a fifteen dollars ($15) a week dependents allowance
for each dependent.
    13250.22. The participating school district shall pay to the
intern an amount equivalent to the tuition fees or college or
university fees, or both, if levied, upon the intern attending
the participating university, state college, or private institution
of higher education.
    13250.24. The Director of Compensatory Education shall,
under the policy direction of the State Board of Education
and the administrative direction of the Director of Education,
provide administrative assistance with respect to the program
prescribed in this article and shall adopt rules and regulations
with respect thereto.
   13250.26. The Department of Education shall reimburse
school districts participating in the New Careers Program for
the expenses incurred by the school district pursuant to Sec-
tions 13250.20 and 13250.22.
   13250.28. The participating university, state college, and
private institution of higher education shall fund its own
costs involved in the program prescribed by this article.
   SEC. 2. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund in the State Treasury for the 1969-1970 fiscal year
to the Department of Education the sum of one hundred
twenty-five thousand dollars ($125,000) to be allocated for
purposes of Article 2.8 (commencing with Section 13250) of
Chapter 2 of Division 10 of the Education Code.


                        CHAPTER 1454
An act to add Article 6.1 (commencing with Section 8121) to
  Chapter 3, Division 7 of the Education Code, and to add
  Sections 11113, 11114, and 11115 to, and Chapter 1.5 (com-
  mencing with Section 11200) to Division 5 of, the Vehicle
                     1969
Ch. 14541                   REGULAR SESSION                    2973

  Code, relating to driver training, and making an appropria-
  tion therefor.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1960. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Legislature finds that there is a need to
evaluate the automobile driver training programs in the sec-
ondary schools and to compare the costs and benefits of such
programs with the training offered by commercial driving
schools. The Legislature also finds that there is a need to
evaluate new methods of driver training.
  To this end, the Legislature proposes a scientific study, the
subjects of which, would be a limited number of eligible stu-
dents in selected school districts. The study shall be structured,
controlled, and regulated so as to assure valid conclusions.
  SEO. 2. Article 6.1 (commencing with Section 8121) is
added to Chapter 3 of Division 7 of the Education Code, to
read:

    Article 6.1. Experimental Driver Training Districts
   8121. "Experimental driver training district," as used in
this article, means a school district which may contract with
a certified driver training school for the purpose of providing
automobile driver training to eligible students.
   8122. "Certified commercial driving school," as used in
this article, means a driving school licensed pursuant to Chap-
ter 1 (commencing with Section 11100) of Division 5 of the
Vehicle Code.
   8123. The Superintendent of Public Instruction, in con-
sultation with, and with the approval of, the Department of
Motor Vehicles, shall randomly select, using scientific
methods, not to exceed 20 school districts which shall be desig-
nated experimental driver training districts.
   8124. The State Department of Education shall reimburse
fully the experimental driver training districts for all costs
incurred by their automobile driver training programs from
July 1, 1970, to June 30, 1971.
   8125. The experimental driver training districts shall con-
tract with certified commercial driving schools for the training
from July 1, 1970 to June 30, 1971 of a scientifically selected
number of students designated by the Department of Motor
Vehicles pursuant to Section 11200 of the Vehicle Code. The
contract shall provide, among other things, that if the De-
partment of Motor Vehicles determines that the driving school
is not providing automobile driver training which satisfies the
requirements for such training prescribed pursuant to the
Education Code, the contract may be canceled.
2974               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qh. 1454

    8126. For the period from July 1, 1970 to June 30, 1971,
 the certified commercial driving schools and the secondary-
 schools shall each train their respective test groups established
 by the Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to Section
 11200 of the Vehicle Code, as follows:
     (a) One group shall receive the training prescribed by Sec-
 tion 18252.4 of the Education Code.
     (b) The other group shall, in addition to the training pre-
 scribed by subdivision (a), receive four hours of behind-the-
 wheel practice driving instruction.
    8127. The State Department of Education shall adopt rea-
 sonable regulations necessary to carry out the purposes of this
 article.
    SEC. 3. Section 11113 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
 read:
    11113. Each instructor employed by a certified commercial
 driving school for training eligible students pursuant to Sec-
 tion 8126 of the Education Code shall have previously passed
a driving instructors course in conformance with the standards
promulgated by the Highway Safety Act of 1966 (Pub.L. 89-
564, 80 Stat. 731). Only courses approved and monitored by
the department under Section 11114 meet this requirement.
    SEC. 4. Section 11114 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
read:
    11114. The department shall establish standards for, ap-
prove, and monitor courses of instruction for driving instruc-
tors which meet the recommendations set forth under the
Highway Safety Act of 1966 (Pub.L. 89-564, 80 Stat. 731).
    SEC. 4.5. Section 11115 is added to the Vehicle Code, to
read:
    11115. The department shall monitor all training given by
certified commercial driving schools under contracts pursuant
to Section 8125 of the Education Code.
   SEC. 5. Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 11200) is
added to Division 5 of the Vehicle Code, to read:

        CHAPTER 1.5.    STUDY OF COMMERCIAL DRIVING
                       SCHOOL TRAINING

   11200. The department shall conduct a scientific study of
the automobile driver training programs in the experimental
school districts established pursuant to Article 6.1 (com-
mencing with Section 8121) of Chapter 3 of Division 7 of the
Education Code, for the purpose of comparing the costs and
benefits of training students in commercial driving schools with
the costs and benefits of the training offered by the schools. To
this end, the department shall select, using scientific selection
procedures, for the period of July 1, 1970 to June 30, 1971,
which students shall be trained in the certified commercial
driving schools and which students shall be trained in the
secondary schools. The number of students so selected shall not
exceed 40 percent of the eligible students.
                     1969
Ch. 1455]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2975

    The department shall assign each student selected to be
 trained in the certified commercial driving schools to one of
 the two test groups designated by Section 8126 of the Educa-
 tion Code. The department shall assign each student selected
 to be trained in the secondary schools to one of the two test
 groups designated by Section 8126 of the Education Code.
    11201. The study shall include, but not be limited to, com-
 paring the motor vehicle accident and violation rates of those
students receiving automobile driver training from the second-
ary schools with those receiving automobile driver training
in the commercial schools. The study shall also relate the follow-
ing factors, but not limited to relating such factors, to the
motor vehicle and accident rates of the students in the study:
age, sex, previous automobile driver training experience, driv-
ing experience, social and economic background, and the length
of time between training and licensing.
    11202. The department may request, and shall receive, from
the experimental school districts and the State Department of
Education such assistance as is necessary to carry out the
study.
   11203. The department shall submit an interim report to
the Legislature on or before the fifth legislative day of the
1972 Eegular Session. The department shall submit a final
report to the Legislature on or before the fifth legislative day of
the 1974 Eegular Session.
   SEC. 6. There is hereby appropriated from the Driver
Training Penalty Assessment F u n d to the Director of Finance
the following sums for allocation pursuant to the following
schedule:
    (a) To the Department of Education the sum necessary to
carry out the purposes of Section 8124 of the Education Code.
    (b) Seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000) to the Depart-
ment of Motor Vehicles for the 1969-1970 fiscal year to carry
out the purposes of Sections 11114 and 11115 of the Vehicle
Code.
    (c) Three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) to the De-
partment of Motor Vehicles to carry out the purposes of
Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 11200) of Division 5
of the Vehicle Code.
   SEC. 7. This act shall have no force or effect on and afte~
July 1, 1974.

                        CHAPTER 1455
An act to amend Section 12202 of the Revenue and Taxation,
            Code,'relating to taxation of insurers.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]




   94—1954
2976              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   [QJ^ } 4 5 g

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 12202 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
   12202. The rate of tax to be applied to the basis of the
annual tax in respect to each year is 2.35 percent except the
rate to be applied to the basis in respect to the years 1964,
1965, 1966, and 1967 is 2.33 percent and except that as to gross
premiums received upon policies or contracts issued in con-
nection with a pension plan or profit-sharing plan exempt or
qualified under Section 401(a), 403(b), 404, or 501(a) of the
United States Internal Revenue Code as they may be amended
or renumbered from time to time, the rate of tax shall be the
percentage set forth below opposite each year:

  Year                                                    Percentage
  1960                                                       2.15
  1961                                                       1.95
  1962                                                       1.75
  1963                                                       1.55
  1964                                                       1.35
  1965 through 1968                                           1.00
  1969 and each year thereafter                              0.50


                        CHAPTER 1456
An act to add Sections 12747, 12747.1, and 12747.2 to the
  Water Code, relating to flood control, and declaring the ur-
  gency thereof, to take effect immediately.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12747 is added to the "Water Code, to
read:
   12747. The plan of improvement for flood control and other
purposes on Cucamonga Creek in San Bernardino County is
hereby adopted and authorized substantially in accordance
with the recommendations of the Chief of Engineers in House
Document Numbered 323, 90th Congress, as adopted and au-
thorized by the Act of Congress approved August 13, 1968
 (Public Law 90-483, the "Flood Control Act of 1968"), at an
estimated cost to the state of such sum as may be appropriated
for state cooperation by the Legislature upton the recommenda-
tion and advice of the department. This authorization shall not
be deemed to confer preference on this project over the needs
of other statewide programs in appropriation of available
funds.
   SEC. 2. Section 12747.1 is added to the "Water Code, to
read:
                     1969
Ch. 1457]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2977

   12747.1. The San Bernardino County Flood Control Dis-
trict shall give assurances satisfactory to the Secretary of the
Army that the local cooperation, required by the Act of Con-
gress approved August 13, 1968 (Public Law 90-483, the
"Flood Control Act of 1968"), will be furnished by the dis-
trict in connection with the plan of improvement for flood
control adopted and authorized in Section 12747.
   SEC. 3. Section 12747.2 is added to the Water Code, to
read:
   12747.2. The San Bernardino County Flood Control Dis-
trict, in conjunction with the Department of the Army, shall
execute the plan of improvement for flood control referred to
in Section 12747 and exercise all powers granted to it in the
San Bernardino County Flood Control Act (Chapter 73,
Statutes of 1939), and the district may make such modifica-
tions or amendments to the plans as may be necessary to
execute them for the purposes of Chapters 1 (commencing
with Section 12570) and 2 (commencing with Section 12639)
of this part.
   SEC. 4. The Lower Llagas Creek "Watershed Project is in-
cluded among the watershed projects for which funds may be
expended from the appropriation made by Item 349 of the
Budget Act of 1969.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such neces-
sity are:
   The Lower Llagas Creek Watershed Project has been au-
thorized by the federal government and is ready for construc-
tion. In order that construction may start, it is necessary to
provide the lands, easements, and rights-of-way. This bill will
permit state reimbursement of the cost of lands, easements, and
rights-of-way, so that protection from floods can be provided
as early as possible.

                         CHAPTER 1457
       An act to amend Section 437.5 of the Health and
          Safety Code, relating to health planning.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 437.5 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
  437.5. (a) The Governor shall designate a state health
planning agency in order to comply with Section 314 of Public
Law 89-749, after receiving the recommendation of the council.
2978               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQJ^ ^ 4 5 3

The council shall approve the comprehensive health plan to he
submitted to the federal government. The budget of the agency
for the expenditure of planning money and health grant funds
shall be submitted to the council for its recommendation before
its submission to the Governor and the Legislature.
   (b) The Health Planning Council shall advise the agency
in the conduct of its comprehensive health planning activities
and in the setting of priorities. The council shall review all
project grant applications for public funds that relate to health
and which are administered either directly or indirectly by
state agencies, except funds appropriated by the Legislature.
Such review shall include the priority of each project, its rela-
tionship to projects funded under the provisions of the Com-
prehensive Health Planning Act, Public Law 89-749, and its
relationship to statewide health needs.
   (c) The Health Planning Council may require state and
other public agencies to submit data on publicly administered
or financed health programs pertinent to effective planning
and coordination under the provisions of Public Law 89-749.


                        CHAPTER 1458
            An act to add Section 830.7 to the Penal
                Code, relating to peace officers.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 830.7 is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
   830.7. Any uniformed peace officer shall wear a badge,
nameplate, or other device which bears clearly on its face the
identification number or name of such officer.


                        CHAPTER 1459
An act to add Section 3 to Chapter 1461 of the Statutes of
  1968, relating to state teaches and parks, making an appro-
  priation therefor, and declaring the urgency thereof to take
  effect immediately.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 3 is added to Chapter 1461 of the Stat-
utes of 1968, to read:
                       1969
Ch. 1460]                     ftEGULAtt SESSION                2979

  Sec. 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2 of this
act, funds appropriated pursuant to Section 1 of this act are
hereby made available for expenditure by the department dur-
ing the fiscal year 1969-1970 for the construction of the groin
at Capitola State Park, without regard to local compliance
with requirements of federal law.
  SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
  In order to provide urgently needed protection to coastal
property at the earliest possible time by construction of the
groin at Capitola State Park, it is essential that this act take
immediate effect.

                          CHAPTER 1460
An act to add Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 21500)
  to Part 1 of Division 9 of the Public Utilities Code, re-
  lating to aviation.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1989. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 21500)
is added to Part 1 of Division 9 of the Public Utilities Code,
to read:

        CHAPTER 3.5.      AIRCRAFT RESCUE TRANSMITTERS

   21500. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as
the Downed Aircraft Search and Location Act.
   21501. The Legislature hereby finds and declares that it is
in the interest of public safety to facilitate by the most expedi-
tious means available the search for and location of aircraft
which have crashed or been forced to land in remote or in-
accessible areas. It is, therefore, the policy of this state that
all civil aircraft, except for aircraft used for agricultural
spraying or crop dusting, experimental aircraft operated for
testing purposes, aircraft of primarily antique or historical
value or interest, gliders, and lighter-than-air craft, located
for tax purposes within the territorial limits of this state be
equipped with an approved device capable of indicating by
radio transmissions the position of the aircraft when grounded
because of mechanical or other failure at a place other than at
an airport.
   21502. The department shall examine any available downed
aircraft transmitting device for effectiveness and reliability
and shall approve for use any of such units found to be effec-
2980              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   r Q ^ 1461

tive and reliable within limits and standards established by
the department.
   21503. The device approved by the department must be of
sufficient durability to withstand the impact of a crash, and
automatically activate so as to transmit an effective signal on
a preset emergency distress radio frequency to enable the loca-
tion of the aircraft to be fixed.
   21504. The department shall establish minimum standards
for downed aircraft transmitting devices. The standards shall
require that such devices be used on aircraft in commercial
service after one year from the effective date of this chapter,
and on all other aircraft, except as provided otherwise in
Sections 21501 and 21505, after two years from the effective
date of this chapter.
   21505. Upon petition by the owner of any aircraft, the
department may exempt the aircraft from the requirement of
a downed aircraft rescue transmitter upon a showing to the
satisfaction of the department that such a device would not
significantly increase the safety of operations in the particular
case.
   21506. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to air
carrier aircraft operating pursuant to both a federal certificate
of public convenience and necessity and a federal air carrier
operating certificate.

                        C H A P T E E 1461
An act to amend Section 23184 of the Revenue and Taxation
  Code, relating to the Bank and Corporation Tax Law, to
  take effect immediately, tax levy.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 19C9. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 23184 of the Eevenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
   23184. Financial corporations may offset against the fran-
chise tax the amounts paid during the income year to this state
or to any county, city, town, or other political subdivisions of
the state as personal property taxes, or as license fees or excise
taxes for the following privileges:
   (a) Operating as personal property brokers or brokers as
defined in the Personal Property Brokers Law provided for
in Division 9 (commencing with Section 22000) of the Fi-
nancial Code.
   (b) Operating motor vehicles under P a r t 5 (commencing
with Section 10701) of this division or Article 2 (commencing
with Section 9250) of Chapter 6 of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, except for Section 9265.
                     1969
Ch. 1462]                   REGULAR SESSION                    2981

   (c) Engaging in the business of loaning money, advancing
credit, or loaning credit or arranging for the loan of money or
advancing of credit or loaning of credit.
   (d) Storing, using or otherwise consuming in this state of
tangible personal property by savings and loan associations.
   The offset allowed to any financial corporation for any in-
come year as provided in this section may, at the election of
that financial corporation, be offset, in whole or in part,
against its franchise tax for that income year or offset in whole
or in part against its franchise tax in one or more of the next
four succeeding years of its selection, until such time as the
total amount of such offset is so utilized; provided, however,
that for such purposes, offsets elected to be utilized against the
franchise tax of a succeeding year shall be applied in the order
of their respective years of origin and prior to the application
of the offset which might otherwise be allowable for amounts
paid during that income year.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
section, the tax on financial corporations after the allowance of
all offsets provided for herein shall not be less than 7 per-
cent of its net income for the preceding income year nor less
than the following minimum tax:
   (1) In the case of financial corporations, other than credit
unions whose gross income is twenty thousand dollars ($20,-
000) or less, one hundred dollars ($100).
   (2) In the case of credit unions whose gross income is
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) or less, twenty-five dollars
 ($25).
   SEC. 2. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
the act which can be given effect without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.
   SEC. 3. This act provides for a tax levy within the mean-
ing of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into imme-
diate effect. However, the provisions of Section 1 shall be ap-
plied in the computation of taxes measured by net income of
calendar or fiscal years ending after December 31, 1968.


                        CHAPTEB 1462
An act to add Sections 14378, 14379, 14380, and 14404 to the
        Government Code, relating to public contracts.
         [Approved by Governor September i, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]
2982               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               m ^   1462

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 14378 is added to the Government
 Code, to read:
    14378. Every contract subject to this chapter or Chapter
 14 (commencing with Section 25200) of Division 18 of Part 4 of
 the Education Code shall provide that monetary claims totaling
 in the aggregate twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or less
 on any contract and filed in accordance with procedures set
 forth in such contract may, at the option of the contractor or
the department, be subject to determination of rights under
 the contract in accordance with Section 14379.
    SEC. 2. Section 14379 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    14379. (a) Determination of rights pursuant to Section
 14378 shall be by a hearing officer appointed for that purpose
from the staff of the Office of Administrative Procedure.
    (b) The party seeking a determination of rights shall give
notice in writing of the claim setting forth the facts on which
the claim is based to the other party and to the Office of
Administrative Procedure. The Office of Administrative Pro-
cedure shall appoint a hearing officer to hear such claim. The
hearing officer shall be appointed within 60 days after such
notice, but not before completion of the contract, unless the
department consents to earlier appointment, and the hearing
officer shall hear and determine the controversy and render his
decision in writing within 60 days after his appointment, un-
less otherwise agreed by the parties, provided, however, that
for good cause, the hearing officer may extend such time. Each
party shall bear its own costs and shall pay one-half of the
costs of the hearing.
    (c) The decision of the hearing officer shall be final if sup-
ported by law and by substantial evidence.
   SEC. 3. Section 14380 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   14380. The Office of Administrative Procedure shall adopt
rules and regulations, pursuant to Chapter 4.5, Part 1, Di-
vision 3, Title 2 of the Government Code, to implement the
claims procedure authorized by this article.
   SEC. 4. Section 14404 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   14404. A claim pursuant to Part 3, Division 3.6, Title 1
of the Government Code is not required, but legal action on
any claim must be commenced within six months after final
decision of the department or determination of rights by the
hearing officer. The department shall have full authority to
compromise or otherwise settle any claims arising from the
contract at any time.
                      1969
Ch. 1464]                    REGULAR SESSION                    2983

                         CHAPTER 1463
  An act to add Section 31469.4 to the Government Code,
     relating to the County Employees Retirement Law.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31469.4 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
  31469.4. "Safety member" means persons employed as
juvenile hall group counselors and group supervisors who are
primarily engaged in the control and custody of delinquent
youths who must be detained under physical security in order
not to be harmful to themselves or others.
  The provisions of this section shall not be applicable in any
county until the board of supervisors by resolution make the
provisions applicable.

                         CHAPTER 1464
An act to add Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 17065)
  to Part 10 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
  relating to special income tax credits, to take effect immedi-
  ately, tax levy.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 17065)
is added to P a r t 10 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:

              CHAPTER 2.5.      SPECIAL TAX CEEDIT

    17065. (a) A special tax credit of 10 percent of the amount
of " n e t t a x " (as defined in Section 17066) shall be allowed
against the taxes imposed by this part with respect to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 1968, and before January
1, 1970. If the taxpayer has more than one taxable year be-
ginning after December 31, 1968, and before January 1, 1970,
such taxpayer shall be allowed the special credit provided by
this section only with respect to the taxable year which covers
the most number of months.
    In the case of a single person, or a married person filing a
separate return, the special tax credit shall not exceed one
hundred dollars ($100).
    In the case of a head of a household, or a married couple
filing a joint return, the special tax credit shall not exceed two
hundred dollars ($200).
2984              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1464

   (b) The special tax credit provided by this section shall
not apply to trusts or estates subject to tax under this part.
   (c) In order to claim the special tax credit allowed under
subdivision (a), the taxpayer must first pay the entire amount
of the net tax liability (as defined in Section 17066), less the
amount of the special tax credit provided by this chapter and
any balance due thereon after taking into account any pre-
payment or prepayments made pursuant to the provisions of
Section 18556 for taxable years beginning after December 31,
1968, and before January I, 1970, on or before the due date of
the return (as extended by Section 18433 or 18434), unless
the taxpayer's failure to pay or file a timely return was due
to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect.
    (d) The tax credit allowed by this section shall be claimed
at the time a return is filed for taxable years beginning after
December 31, 1968, and before January 1, 1970.
   (e) If, after the special tax credit provided by subdivision
 (a) is claimed, the Franchise Tax Board determines that the
taxpayer's net tax liability for taxable years beginning after
December 31, 1968, and before January 1, 1970, is more or
less than the amount shown on the return, a corresponding
adjustment shall be made by the Franchise Tax Board for the
special tax credit.
   17066. (a) The term " n e t t a x " means the tax imposed
under either Section 17041 or 17048, minus the sum of any
credits against the tax provided by Section 17054 (relating to
credits for personal exemptions). However, for the purposes
of this chapter, in determining the amount of tax imposed
under either Section 17041 or 17048, taxable income shall be
computed without regard to the amount by which net long-
term capital gain exceeds net short-term capital loss. As used
in this chapter, the term " n e t long-term capital gain" in-
cludes—
    (1) The excess of long-term capital gains over long-term
capital losses,
   (2) The excess of gains over losses from transactions which
are treated as sales or exchanges of capital assets and report-
able as net long-term capital gain or loss under this part, and
   (3) Net gains from the sales or exchanges of property used
in the taxpayer's trade or business.
   (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (a), the
amount of the taxpayer's adjusted gross income shall be deter-
mined as provided by Section 17072 for the purposes of com-
puting—
    (1) The amount of any deductions allowed by Articles 6
 (commencing' with Section 17201) and 7 (commencing with
Section 17251) of Chapter 3 of this part,
    (2) The amount of credit allowed by Chapter 12 (commenc-
ing with Section 18001) of this part for taxes paid to another
state, and
                       1969
Ch. 1465]                     REGULAR SESSION                     2985

    (3) The proportionate amount of the minimum standard
deduction and the credits for personal exemption pursuant to
Section 17055 (relating to certain nonresidents).
    (c) For the purposes of Chapter 2.5 only, the term " n e t
tax liability" means the tax imposed under either Section
17041 or 17048, minus the sum of any credits against the tax
provided by Section 17053 (relating to retirement income
credit), Section 17054 (relating to credits for personal exemp-
tions), and Chapter 12 (commencing with Section 18001) of
this part (relating to taxes paid other states).
   17067. For the purposes of Chapter 12 (commencing with
Section 18001) of this part, credits for taxes paid to other
states shall be allowed against the amount of " n e t t a x " (as
defined in Section 17066) minus the special credit provided by
this chapter.
    17068. For the purposes of Section 18414 (relating to the
filing of a declaration of estimated tax) and Section 18556
 (relating to the payment of estimated tax), the requirement
for filing a declaration of estimated tax and the amount of
estimated tax to be paid shall be determined without regard
to the special tax credit provided in Section 17065.
    SEC. 2. This act provides for a tax levy within the mean-
ing of Article I V of the Constitution and shall go into im-
mediate effect.

                           CHAPTER 1465
An act to amend Section 10751 of, and to add Section 22504.5
       to, the Education Code, relating to pupil records.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 10751 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   10751. No teacher, principal, employee, or governing board
member of any public, private, or parochial school providing
instruction in any of grades kindergarten through 12 shall
permit access to any written records concerning any particular
pupil enrolled in the school in any class to any person except
under judicial process unless the person is one of the fol-
lowing :
   (a) Either parent or a guardian of such pupil.
   (b) A person designated, in writing, by such pupil if he is
an adult, or by either parent or a guardian of such pupil if
he is a minor.
   (c) An officer or employee of a public, private, or parochial
school where the pupil attends, has attended, or intends to
enroll.
2986               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1465

   (d) A state or local law enforcement officer, including a pro-
bation officer, parole officer or administrator, or a member of a
parole board, seeking information in the course of his duties.
   (e) The State Superintendent of Public Instruction, or a
member of his staff, or the county superintendent of schools
of the county where the pupil attends, has attended, or intends
to enroll, or a member of his staff.
   The restrictions imposed by this section are not intended to
interfere with the giving of information by school personnel
concerning participation in athletics and other school activi-
ties, the winning of scholastic or other honors and awards, and
other like information. Notwithstanding the restrictions im-
posed by this section, a governing board may, in its discretion,
provide information to the staff of a college, university, or
educational research and development organization or labora-
tory if such information is necessary to a research project or
study conducted, sponsored, or approved by the college, uni-
versity, or educational research and development organization
or laboratory and if no pupil will be identified by name in the
information submitted for research. Notwithstanding the re-
strictions imposed by this section, an employer or potential
employer of the pupil may be furnished the age and scholastic
record of the pupil and employment recommendations pre-
pared by members of the school staff. Notwithstanding the
restrictions imposed by this section, the names and addresses
of pupils, the record of a pupil's daily attendance, the pupil's
scholastic record in the form of grades received in school
subjects, the names of a pupil's parents or guardian, a pupil's
date and place of birth, and the names and addresses of other
schools a pupil has attended may be released to an officer or
employee of the United States seeking this information in the
course of his duties, when the pupil is a veteran of military
service with the United States, or an orphan or dependent of
such veteran, or an alien.
   SEC. 2. Section 22504.5 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   22504.5. No teacher, official, employee, or governing board
member of any public or private junior college, college, or
university shall permit access to any written records concern-
ing any particular pupil enrolled in the school in any class to
any person except under judicial process unless the person is
one of the following:
   (a) Either parent or a guardian of such pupil.
   (b) A person designated, in writing, by such pupil if he is
an adult, or by either parent or a guardian of such pupil if he
is a minor.
   (c) An officer or employee of a public, private, or parochial
school where the pupil attends, has attended, or intends to en-
roll.
   (d) An officer or employee of the United States, the State
of California, or a city, city and county, or county seeking
information in the course of Ms duties.
                     l969
Ch. 1465]                   REGULAR SESSION                  298?

    (e) An officer or employee of a public or private guidance
 or welfare agency of which the pupil is a client.
   Eestrictions imposed by this section are not intended to
 interfere with the preparation and distribution of junior col-
 lege, college and university student directories or with the
 furnishing of lists of names, addresses, and telephone numbers
 of junior college, college and university students to pro-
 prietors of off-campus housing. Such restrictions are not in-
 tended to interfere with the giving of information by school
 personnel concerning participation in athletics and other school
 activities, the winning of scholastic or other honors and
 awards, and other like information.
   Notwithstanding the restrictions imposed by this section, a
governing board may, in its discretion, provide information
to the staff of a college, university, or educational research and
development organization or laboratory if such information
is necessary to a research project or study conducted, spon-
sored, or approved by the college, university, or educational
research and development organization or laboratory and if no
pupil will be identified by name in the information submitted
for research. Notwithstanding the restrictions imposed by this
section an employer or potential employer of the pupil may
be furnished the age and scholastic record of the pupil and
employment recommendations prepared by members of the
school staff.
   SEC. 3. Section 10751 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   10751. No teacher, principal, employee, or governing board
member of any public, private, or parochial school providing
instruction in any of grades kindergarten through 12 shall
permit access to any written records concerning any particular
pupil enrolled in the school in any class to any person except
under judicial process unless the person is one of the following:
   (a) Either parent or a guardian of such pupil.
   (b) A person designated, in writing, by such pupil if he is
an adult, or by either parent or a guardian of such pupil if
he is a minor.
    (c) An officer or employee of a public, private, or parochial
school where the pupil attends, has attended, or intends to
enroll.
   (d) A state or local law enforcement officer, including a
probation officer, parole officer or administrator, or a member
of a parole board, seeking information in the course of his
duties.
   (e) The State Superintendent of Public Instruction, or a
member of his staff, or the county superintendent of schools
of the county where the pupil attends, has attended, or intends
to enroll, or a member of his staff.
   The restrictions imposed by this section are not intended to
interfere with the giving of information by school personnel
concerning participation in athletics and other school activities,
2988               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  ^ } 1 < l4gg

the winning of scholastic or other honors and awards, and other
like information. Notwithstanding the restrictions imposed by
this section, a governing board may, in its discretion, provide
information to the staff of a college, university, or educational
research and development organization or laboratory if such
information is necessary to a research project or study con-
ducted, sponsored, or approved by the college, university, or
educational research and development organization or labora-
tory and if no pupil will be identified by name in the informa-
tion submitted for research. Notwithstanding the restrictions
imposed by this section, an employer or potential employer of
the pupil may be furnished the age and scholastic record of the
pupil and employment recommendations prepared by members
of the school staff.
   Notwithstanding the restrictions imposed by this section, the
names and addresses of pupils, the record of a pupil's daily
attendance, the pupil's scholastic record in the form of grades
received in school subjects, the names of a pupil's parents or
 guardian, a pupil's date and place of birth, and the names and
 addresses of other schools a pupil has attended may be released
 to an officer or employee of the United States seeking this infor-
 mation in the course of his duties, when the pupil is a veteran
of military service with the United States, or an orphan or
 dependent of such veteran, or an alien. Notwithstanding the
 restrictions imposed by this section, school personnel of a
 public, private, or parochial high school may furnish the names
 and addresses of graduating seniors to elected federal, state,
 county, or district officials.
    SEC. 4. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments to
 Section 10751 of the Education Code proposed by both this bill
 and Assembly Bill 2214 are enacted, that both amendments be
 given effect and incorporated in Section 10751 in the form set
forth in Section 3 of this act. Therefore, in the event that
Assembly Bill 2214 is enacted and amends Section 10751,
 Section 3 of this act shall become operative at the same time
 that Section 10751 as amended by Assembly Bill 2214 becomes
operative, and at that time, Section 10751 of the Education
 Code as amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                         C H A P T E E 1466
An act to amend Sections 23320 and 23821 of, and to add
  Sections 23321.7, 23954.7, and 23962 to, the Business and
  Professions Code, relating to alcoholic leverages.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 23320 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1466]                  REGULAK SESSION                 2989

  23320. The following are the types of licenses to be issued
under this division and the annual fees to be charged therefor:
    (1) Beer manufacturer's license
    (a) Steam beer manufacturer exclusively $56.00 per year
    (b) All other beer manufacturer              828.00 per year
    (2) Winegrower's license or wine blend-
            er's license (to be computed only
           on the gallonage produced or
           blended), 5,000 gallons or less        22.00 per year
        Over 5,000 gallons to 20,000 gallons
           per year                               44.00 per year
        Over 20,000 to 100,000 gallons per
           year                                   82.50 per year
        Over 100,000 to 200,000 gallons per
           year                                  110.00 per year
        Over 200,000 gallons to 1,000,000 gal-
           lons per year                         165.00 per year
        For each 1,000,000 gallons or fraction
           thereof over 1,000,000 gallons an
           additional                            110.00 per year
   (3) Brandy manufacturer's license             168.00 per year
    (4) Distilled spirits manufacturer's
           license                               276.00 per year
   (5) Distilled spirits manufacturer's
           agent's license                       276.00 per year
   (6) Still license                              12.00 per year
   (7) Rectifier's license                       276.00 per year
  (7a) Distilled spirits rectifier's general li-
           cense                                 276.00 per year
   (8) Wine rectifier's license                  276.00 per year
   (9) Beer and wine importer's license--            No fee
  (10) Beer and wine importer's general li-
           cense                                  56.00 per year
  (11) Brandy importer's license                     No fee
  (12) Distilled spirits importer's license^ _       No fee
  (13) Distilled spirits importer's general li-
           cense                                 276.00 per year
  (14) Public warehouse license                   12.00 per year
  (15) Customs broker's license                   12.00 per year
  (16) Wine broker's license                      56.00 per year
  (17) Beer and wine wholesaler's license—        56.00 per year
  (18) Distilled spirits wholesaler's license- 276.00 per year
  (19) Industrial alcohol dealer's license        56.00 per year
  (20) Retail package off-sale beer and wine
           license                                24.00 per year
  (21) Retail package off-sale general license
           for under $20,000 gross retail sales
           of distilled spirits per year         200.00 per year
        I n addition, for $20,000 or more gross
           retail sales of distilled spirits per
           year                   .              200.00 per year
2990              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Ch. 14.QQ

  (22) On-sale beer license                        168.00 per year
  (23) On-sale beer and wine license               168.00 per year
  (24) On-sale beer and wine license for
           trains (per train)                       16.00 per year
  (25) On-sale beer license for fishing party
          boats (per boat)                          32.00 per year
  (26) On-sale beer and wine license for
          boats (per boat)                          56.00 per year
  (27) On-sale beer and wine license for air-
           planes (per scheduled flight)            16.00 per year
  (28) On-sale general license:
       In cities of 40,000 population or over 580.00 per year
       In cities of less than 40,000 but more
           than 20,000 population                  412.00 per year
       In all other localities                     360.00 per year
  (29) On-sale general license for seasonal
          business:
       In cities of 40,000 popula-
          tion or over                     145.00 per quarter year
       I n cities of less than 40,000
          but more than 20,000 popu-
          lation                           103.00 per quarter year
       In all other localities              90.00 per quarter year
 (30) (a) On-sale general license for bona
                fide clubs,
       (b) Club license (issued under Arti-
                cle 4 of this chapter), or
       (c) Veterans' club license (issued
                under Article 5 of this chap-
                ter) :
             In cities of 40,000 population or
               over                                330.00 per year
             In cities of less than 40,000 but
               more than 20,000                    248.00 per year
             In all other localities               220.00 per year
 (31) On-sale general license for trains and
          sleeping cars                            128.00 per year
       Duplicate on-sale general license for
          trains and sleeping car companies         32.00 per year
 (32) On-sale general license for boats            332.00 per year
 (33) On-sale general license for airplanes 332.00 per year
       Duplicate on-sale general license for
          air common carriers                       10.00 per year
 (34) On-sale general license for vessels of
          more than 1,000 tons burden              128.00 per year
       Duplicate on-sale general license for
          vessels of more than 1,000 tons bur-
          den                                       32.00 per year
 (35) On-sale general bona fide public eat-
          ing place intermittent dockside li-
          cense for vessels of more than
          15,000 tons displacement                 360.00 per year
                     1969
 Ch. 14661                  REGULAR SESSION                   2991

    SEC. 2. Section 23321.7 is added to the Business and Pro-
 fessions Code, to read:
    23321.7. The on-sale general bona fide public eating place
 intermittent dockside license for vessels of more than 15,000
 tons displacement may be issued for any vessel of more than
 15,000 tons displacement with cabin berth capacity for at least
 75 passengers, respecting which vessel a duplicate license has
also been issued under Section 23321.6. Each license issuable
under this section shall be used only in the county where
issued, but a vessel qualified under this section may be issued
such a license in more than one county. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 23397, the licensee under each such
license shall be authorized to sell alcoholic beverages to the
general public aboard the vessel respecting which the license
is issued when the vessel is securely lashed on berth in the
county for which the license is issued, provided that such
sales are incidental to the passenger operations of such vessel
and such beverages are purchased from persons licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages for resale in this state. In no event shall the
rights under any such license be exercised in any county
during more than 45 calendar days in any calendar year. Not-
withstanding the provisions of Article 2 (commencing with
Section 23815) of Chapter 5 of this division, there shall be no
limitation, other than provided in this section, on the number
of licenses that may be issued under this section to applicants
who meet its requirements. Except as otherwise specifically
provided in this section, all provisions of this division shall
apply to any license issued under this section in the same
manner as such provisions apply to an on-sale general license
issued for a bona fide public eating place, provided that no
caterer's permit may be issued pursuant to Section 23899
with respect to any license issued hereunder, and provided
further that any duplicate license issued pursuant to Section
24042 respecting such vessel shall bear the same foe specified
by subdivision (35) of Section 23320.
   SEC. 3. Section 23821 of the Business and Professions
 Code is amended to read:
   23821. Whenever it is made to appear to the department
by satisfactory evidence that the population in any county has
increased by more than 2.000 or multiples of 2.000 inhabitants
since the most recent United States decennial or special cen-
sus, and it appears to the department that by reason thereof
the inhabitants of the county are unjustly and unfairly dis-
criminated against, and if the total number of on-sale general
licenses in such county do not then exceed the maximum speci-
fied in Section 23816, the department, subject to the limitation
contained in Section 24070, may issue not to exceed one on-sale
general license for each increase of 2,000 inhabitants in the
county since the taking of the census.
   Whenever it is made to appear to the department by satis-
factory evidence that the population in any county has in-
2992               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1466

 creased by more than 2,500 or multiples of 2,500 inhabitants
 since the most recent United States decennial or special census
 and it appears to the department that by reason thereof the
 inhabitants of the county are unjustly and unfairly discrimi-
 nated against, and if the total number of off-sale general
 licenses in such county do not then exceed the maximum speci-
 fied in Section 23817, the department, subject to the limita-
 tion contained in Section 24070, may issue not to exceed one
 off-sale general license for each increase of 2,500 inhabitants
 in the county since the taking of the census.
    Before any applications for new original on-sale general or
 new original off-sale general or intercounty transfer of off-sale
 general or on-sale general licenses are accepted, the depart-
 ment shall publish pursuant to Section 6061 of the Government
 Code in the county where such new original licenses may be
 issued or into which off-sale general or on-sale general licenses
 may be transferred, notice of the department's intention
 to receive applications for the issuance of such new orig-
 inal licenses or for the intercounty transfer of off-sale general
 or on-sale general licenses, setting forth the date, time, manner
 and place of acceptance of such applications within the county.
 In all other respects the limitation hereinbefore provided for
 shall continue in effect.
    SEC. 4. Section 23954.7 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
    23954.7. An applicant for an original on-sale general bona
 fide public eating place intermittent dockside license for ves-
 sels of more than 15,000 tons displacement shall, at the time
 of filing the application for the license, accompany the appli-
 cation with a fee of two thousand dollars ($2,000), but such
 fee shall not be payable upon the renewal or transfer of such
 license.
    SEC. 5. Section 23962 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   23962. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (b)
of Section 23961, if at the conclusion of the period prescribed
by the department for the filing of applications for issuance or
transfer of on-sale general licenses in any county in its notice
of intention to receive applications therefor published pur-
suant to Sections 23821 and 24070, the department finds there
are less applicants than there are on-sale general licenses avail-
able for issuance or transfer under Sections 23821 and 24070,
the department may, within 90 days of the conclusion of the
period, publish pursuant to Section 6061 of the Government
Code in the county where such new original on-sale general
licenses may be issued or into which on-sale general licenses
may be transferred, notice of the department's intention to re-
ceive applications for the issuance of such new original licenses
or for the intercounty transfer of such licenses, setting forth
the date, time, manner, and place of acceptance of such appli-
cations within the county.
                    1969
Ch. 1466]                  REGULAR SESSION                  2993

   If at the conclusion of the period prescribed by the depart-
ment pursuant to this section, the department finds there
are more applicants for such licenses than there are licenses
available for issuance or transfer under Sections 23821 and
24070, the provisions of subdivision (a) of Section 23961 re-
quiring priority drawings shall apply.
   No person who has applied in any county for a new original
on-sale general license or for intercounty transfer of an on-
sale general license during the period prescribed by the depart-
ment in its notice of intention to receive applications therefor
published pursuant to Sections 23821 and 24070, shall be per-
mitted to file application for such new original license or for
the intercounty transfer of such license in that county during
the period prescribed for receiving applications pursuant to
this section.
   SEC. 6. Section 23320 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   23320. The following are the types of licenses to be issued
under this division and the annual fees to be charged therefor:
    (1) Beer manufacturer's license
    (a) Steam beer manufacturer exclusively $56.00 per year
    (b) All other beer manufacturer               828.00 per year
     (2) Winegrower's license or wine blend-
           er's license (to be computed only
           on the gallonage produced or
           blended), 5,000 gallons or less         22.00 per year
         Over 5 000 gallons to 20,000 gallons
           per year                 _              44.00 per year
         Over 20,000 to 100,000 gallons per
           year                                    82.50 per year
         Over 100,000 to 200 000 gallons per
           year                 .                 110.00 per year
         Over 200.000 gallons to 1.000,000 gal-
           lons per year                       _ 165.00 per year
         For each 1 000,000 gallons or fraction
           thereof over 1,000 000 gallons an
           additional __                          110.00 per year
    (3) Brandy manufacturer's license             168.00 per year
    (4) Distilled spirits manufacturer's
           license                         _ _ 276.00 per year
    (5) Distilled spirits manufacturer's
           agent's license      _ _               276.00 per year
    (6) Still license _ . _       .                12 00 per year
    (7) Rectifier's license -                  _ 276.00 per year
   (7a) Distilled spirits rectifier's general li-
           cense                                  276.00 per year
    (8) Wine rectifier's license _                276.00 per year
    (9) Beer and wine importer's license               No fee
   (10) Beer and wine importer's general li-
           cense                                   56.00 per year
   (11) Brandy importer's license                     No fee
2994               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 TQJ1_ 14g6

   (12) Distilled spirits importer's license             No fee
   (13) Distilled spirits importer's general li-
            cense                                   276.00 per year
   (14) Public warehouse license                      12.00 per year
   (15) Customs broker's license                      12.00 per year
   (16) Wine broker's license                         56.00 per year
   (17) Beer and wine wholesaler's license            56.00 per year
   (18) Distilled spirits wholesaler's license- 276.00 per year
   (19) Industrial alcohol dealer's license           56.00 per year
   (20) Retail package off-sale beer and wine
            license                                   24.00 per year
   (21) Retail package off-sale general license 350.00 per year
   (22) On-sale beer license                        168.00 per year
   (23) On-sale beer and wine license               168.00 per year
   (24) On-sale beer and wine license for
            trains (per train)                        16.00 per year
   (25) On-sale beer license for fishing party
            boats (per boat)                          32.00 per year
   (26) On-sale beer and wine license for
            boats (per boat)                          56.00 per year
   (27) On-sale beer and wine license for air-
           planes (per scheduled flight)              16.00 per year
   (28) On-sale general license:
         In cities of 40,000 population or over 580.00 per year
         In cities of less than 40,000 but more
           than 20,000 population                   412.00 per year
        In all other localities                     360.00 per year
  (29) On-sale general license for seasonal
               business:
        In cities of 40,000 popula-
           tion or over                     145.00 per quarter year
        In cities of less than 40,000
           but more than 20,000 popu-
           lation                           103.00 per quarter year
        In all other localities              90.00 per quarter year
  (30) (a) On-sale general license for bona
                 fide clubs,
        (b) Club license (issued under Arti-
                 cle 4 of this chapter), or
        (c) Veterans' club license (issued
                 under Article 5 of this chap-
                 ter) :
               In cities of 40,000 population or
                 over                               330.00 per year
              In cities of less than 40,000 but
                 more than 20,000                   248.00 per year
               In all other localities              220.00 per year
  (31) On-sale general license for trains and
           sleeping cars                            128.00 per year
        Duplicate on-sale general license for
           trains and sleeping car companies         32.00 per year
                     1969
Ch. 1467]                   BBGULAR SESSION                    2995
   (32) On-sale general license for boats         332.00 per year
   (33) On-sale general license for airplanes 332.00 per year
        Duplicate on-sale general license for
          air common carriers                      10.00 per year
   (34) On-sale general license for vessels of
          more than 1,000 tons burden             128.00 per year
        Duplicate on-sale general license for
          vessels of more than 1,000 tons
          burden                                   32.00 per year
   (35) On-sale general bona fide public eat-
          ing place intermittent dockside li-
          cense for vessels of more than
          15,000 tons displacement               360.00 per year
   SEC. 7. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 23320 of the Business and Professions Code pro-
posed by both this bill and Senate Bill No. 923 are enacted,
that both amendments be given effect and incorporated in Sec-
tion 23320 in the form set forth in Section 6 of this act.
Therefore, in the event Senate Bill No. 923 is enacted and
amends Section 23320, Section 6 of this act shall become oper-
ative at the same time that Section 23320 as amended by
Senate Bill No. 923 becomes operative, and at that time, Sec-
tion 23320 of the Business and Professions Code as amended
by Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                        CHAPTER 1467
    An act to amend Section 23320 of the Business and
      Professions Code, relating to alcoholic beverages.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.J

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 23320 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
  23320. The following are the types of licenses to be issued
under this division and the annual fees to be charged therefor:
   (1) Beer manufacturer's license
   (a) Steam beer manufacturer exclusively $56.00 per year
   (b) All other beer manufacturer               828.00 per year
   (2) Winegrower's license or wine blend-
          er's license (to be computed only
          on the gallonage produced or
          blended), 5,000 gallons or less         22.00 per year
        Over 5,000 gallons to 20,000 gallons
          per year                                44.00 per year
        Over 20,000 to 100,000 gallons per
          year                                    82.50 per year
       Over 100,000 to 200,000 gallons per
          year                                  110.00 per year
2996              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA                [Qfo_ J4g7

        Over 200,000 gallons to 1,000,000 gal-
           lons per year                          165.00 per year
        For each 1,000,000 gallons or fraction
           thereof over 1,000,000 gallons an
           additional                             110.00 per year
        Brandy manufacturer's license             168.00 per year
        Distilled spirits manufacturer's
           license                                276.00 per year
        Distilled spirits manufacturer's
           agent's license                        276.00 per year
        Still license                               12.00 per year
        Rectifier's license                       276.00 per year
        Distilled spirits rectifier's general li-
           cense                                  276.00 per year
        Wine rectifier's license                  276.00 per year
        Beer and wine importer's license                No fee
        Beer and wine importer's general li-
          cense                                    56.00 per year
       Brandy importer's license                       No fee
       Distilled spirits importer's license            No fee
        Distilled spirits importer's general li-
          cense                                   276.00 per year
       Public warehouse license                    12.00 per year
        Customs broker's license                   12.00 per year
       Wine broker's license                       56.00 per year
       Beer and wine wholesaler's license          56.00 per year
       Distilled spirits wholesaler's license^ 276.00 per year
       Industrial alcohol dealer's license         56.00 per year
       Retail package off-sale beer and wine
          license       -                          24.00 per year
       Retail package off-sale general license 350.00 per year
       On-sale beer license                       168.00 per year
       On-sale beer and wine license              168.00 per year
       On-sale beer and wine license for
          trains (per train)                       16.00 per year
       On-sale beer license for fishing party
          boats (per boat)                         32.00 per year
       On-sale beer and wine license for
          boats (per boat)                         56.00 per year
       On-sale beer and wine license for air-
          planes (per scheduled flight)            16.00 per year
       On-sale general license:
       In cities of 40,000 population or over 580.00 per year
       In cities of less than 40,000 but more
          than 20,000 population                  412.00 per year
       In all other localities                    360.00 per year
  (29) On-sale general license for seasonal
          business:
       I n cities of 40,000 popula-
          tion or over                    145.00 per quarter year
                        1969
Ch. 1468]                      REGULAR SESSION                    2997

       I n cities of less than 40,000
          but more than 20,000 popu-
          lation                          103.00 per quarter year
       I n all other localities            90.00 per quarter year
  (30) (a) On-sale general license for bona
               fide clubs,
       (b) Club license (issued under Arti-
               cle 4 of this chapter), or
       (c) Veterans' club license (issued
               under Article 5 of this chap-
               ter) :
             In cities of 40,000 population or
               over                               330.00 per year
             In cities of less than 40,000 but
               more than 20,000                   248.00 per year
             In all other localities              220.00 per year
  (31) On-sale general license for trains and
          sleeping cars                           128.00 per year
       Duplicate on-sale general license for
          trains and sleeping car companies        32.00 per year
  (32) On-sale general license for boats          332.00 per year
  (33) On-sale general license for airplanes- 332.00 per year
       Duplicate on-sale general license for
          air common carriers                      10.00 per year
  (34) On-sale general license for vessels of
          more than 1,000 tons burden             128.00 per year
       Duplicate on-sale general license for
          vessels of more than 1,000 tons bur-
          den                                      32.00 per year


                           CHAPTER 1468
An act to amend Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
  and to amend Section 3097 of the Civil Code as added by
  Senate Bill No. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session, relating to
  mechanics' liens.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.}

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
  1193. (a) Except one under direct contract with the
owner or one performing actual labor for wages, every person
who furnishes labor, service, equipment or material for which
a lien otherwise can be claimed under this chapter, or for
which a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under this
chapter, must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of
any claim of lien and of the notice to withhold, cause to be
 2998               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ Q^_ ^ 4 g g

  given to the owner or reputed owner, to the original contractor
  or reputed contractor, and to the construction lender, if any,
  or to the reputed construction lender, if any, a written pre-
  liminary notice as prescribed by this section.
     (b) All persons having a direct contract with the owner,
  except the contractor or one performing actual labor for
  wages, who furnish labor, service, equipment, or material for
  which a lien otherwise can be claimed under this chapter, or
  for which a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under
  this chapter, must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity
  of any claim of lien and of the notice to withhold, cause to be
  given to the construction lender, if any, or to the reputed
  construction lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as
  prescribed by subdivision (c) of this section.
     (c) The preliminary notice referred to in subdivisions (a)
  and (b) above shall be given not later than 20 days after the
 claimant has first furnished labor, services, equipment, or ma-
  terials to the jobsite and shall contain the following informa-
 tion:
     1. A general description of the labor, service, equipment or
 materials furnished, or to be furnished, and if there is a con-
 struction lender, he shall be furnished with an estimate of the
 total price thereof in addition to the foregoing.
    2. The name and address of such person furnishing such
 labor, services, equipment or materials.
     3. The name of the person who contracted for purchase of
 such labor, services, equipment or materials.
    4. A description of the jobsite sufficient for identification.
    5. A statement that if bills are not paid in full for labor,
 services, equipment or materials furnished, or to be furnished,
 the improved property may be subject to mechanics' liens.
    If an invoice for such materials contains the information re-
 quired by this section, a copy of such invoice, transmitted in
 the manner prescribed by this section, shall be sufficient notice.
    A certificated architect who has furnished services for the
design of the work of improvement and who gives a pre-
liminary notice as provided in «this section not later than 20
days after the work of improvement has commenced shall be
 deemed to have complied with subdivisions (a) and (b) of
this section with respect to architectural services furnished,
or to be furnished.
    (d) If labor, service, equipment, or materials have been
furnished to a jobsite by a person who elected not to give a
preliminary notice as provided in subdivision (a) or (b), such
person shall not be precluded from giving a preliminary notice
not later than 20 days after furnishing other labor, service,
equipment, or materials to the same jobsite; provided, how-
ever, that such person shall be entitled to claim a lien and a
notice to withhold only for such labor, service, equipment, or
material furnished within 20 days prior to the service of such
notice and at any time thereafter.
                     1969
Ch. 1468]                   REGULAR SESSION                  2999

    (e) Any agreement made or entered into by an owner
whereby the owner agrees to waive the rights or privileges
conferred upon him by this section shall be void and of no
 effect.
    (f) Service of notice required under this section may be
given by delivering the same to the person to be notified, per-
sonally, or by leaving it at his address or place of business
with some person in charge, or by first-class mail, registered
mail, or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the per-
son to whom notice is to be given, at his residence or place of
business address, at the address shown by the building
permit on file with the authority issuing a building permit
for the work, or at an address recorded pursuant to subdivi-
sion (k) of this section. If the address of the person on whom
notice was required to be served is not actually known, then
service of such notice may be by first-class mail, registered
mail, or certified mail addressed to the jobsite with the envelope
setting forth the name of the owner or reputed owner, if
known, or if not known, then merely " O w n e r , " or to the
person to whom a notice to withhold may be given, if known,
or if not known, then to "Construction Lender," or to the
original contractor, if known, or if not known, then to "Gen-
eral Contractor." When service is by registered or certified
mail, service is complete at the time of the deposit of the
registered or certified mail.
    (g) A person required by this section to give notice to the
owner and to an original contractor and to a person to whom
a notice to withhold may be given, need give only one such
notice to the owner, and to the original contractor and to the
person to whom a notice to withhold may be given with
respect to all materials, service, labor, or equipment he fur-
nishes for a work of improvement, which means the entire
structure or scheme of improvements as a whole, unless the
same is furnished under contracts with more than one sub-
contractor, in which event the notice requirements must be
met with respect to materials, services, labor, or equipment
furnished to each such subcontractor.
   If a notice contains a general description required by sub-
division (a) or (b) of the materials, services, labor, or equip-
ment furnished to the date of the notice, it is not defective
because, after such date, the person giving notice furnishes
materials, services, labor or equipment not within the scope of
such general description.
    (h) Where the contract price to be paid to any subcontrac-
tor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four hundred
dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, licensed under
Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of
the Business and Professions Code, to give the notice provided
for in this section constitutes grounds for disciplinary action
by the Registrar of Contractors.
3000              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1468

   (i) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
public work which is subject to the notice provisions of Section
4210 of the Government Code.
    (j) Every city, county, city and county, or other govern-
mental authority issuing building permits shall, in its appli-
cation form for a building permit, provide space and a desig-
nation for the applicant to enter the name, branch designation
if any, and address of the construction lender and shall keep
such information on file open for public inspection during the
regular business hours of the authority.
   If there is no known construction lender, that fact shall be
noted in such designated space. Any failure to indicate the
name and address of the construction lender on such applica-
tion, however, shall not relieve any person from the obligation
to give to such construction lender the notice required by this
section.
    (k) A mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument secur-
ing a loan, any of the proceeds of which may be used for the
 purpose of constructing improvements on real property, shall
bear the designation "Construction Trust Deed" prominently
on its face and shall state all of the following: (1) the name
and address of the lender, and the name and address of the
owner of the real property described in the instrument, and
 (2) a legal description of the real property which secures the
loan and, if known, the street address of the property. The
failure to be so designated or to state any of the information
required by this subdivision shall not affect the validity of any
such mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument.
   Failure to provide such information on such an instrument
when recorded shall not relieve persons required to give pre-
liminary notice under this section from such duty.
   The county recorder of the county in which such instru-
ment is recorded shall indicate in the general index of the
official records of the county that such instrument secures a
construction loan.
   SEC. 2. Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   1193. (a) Except one under direct contract with the
owner or one performing actual labor for wages, every person
who furnishes labor, service, equipment or material for which
a lien otherwise can be claimed under this chapter, or for
which a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under this
chapter, must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of
any claim of lien and of the notice to withhold, cause to be
given to the owner or reputed owner, to the original contractor
or reputed contractor, and to the construction lender, if any,
or to the reputed construction lender, if any, a written pre-
liminary notice as prescribed by this section.
   (b) All persons having a direct contract with the owner,
except the contractor or one performing actual labor for
wages, who furnish labor, service, equipment, or material for
which a lien otherwise can be claimed under this chapter, or
                    1969
Ch. 1468]                  REGULAR SESSION                   g()oi

for which a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under
this chapter, must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of
any claim of lien and of the notice to withhold, cause to be
given to the construction lender, if any, or to the reputed con-
struction lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as pre-
scribed by subdivision (c) of this section.
   (c) The preliminary notice referred to in subdivisions (a)
and (b) above shall be given not later than 20 days after the
claimant has first furnished labor, services, equipment, or ma-
terials to the jobsite and shall contain the following informa-
tion:
   1. A general description of the labor, service, equipment or
materials furnished, or to be furnished, and if there is a con-
struction lender, he shall be furnished with an estimate of the
total price thereof in addition to the foregoing.
   2. The name and address of such person furnishing such
labor, services, equipment or materials.
   3. The name of the person who contracted for purchase of
such labor, services, equipment or materials.
   4. A description of the jobsite sufficient for identification.
   5. A statement that if bills are not paid in full for labor,
services, equipment or materials furnished, or to be furnished,
the improved property may be subject to mechanics' liens.
   If an invoice for such materials contains the information re-
quired by this section, a copy of such invoice, transmitted in
the manner prescribed by this section, shall be sufficient notice.
   A certificated architect, registered engineer, or licensed land
surveyor who has furnished services for the design of the work
of improvement and who gives a preliminary notice as pro-
vided in this section not later than 20 days after the work of
improvement has commenced shall be deemed to have complied
with subdivisions (a) and (b) of this section with respect to
architectural, engineering, or surveying services furnished, or
to be furnished.
    (d) If labor, service, equipment, or materials have been
furnished to a jobsite by a person who elected not to give a
 preliminary notice as provided in subdivision (a) or (b), such
 person shall not be precluded from giving a preliminary notice
 not later than 20 days after furnishing other labor, service,
 equipment, or materials to the same jobsite; provided, how-
 ever, that such person shall be entitled to claim a lien and a
 notice to withhold only for such labor, service, equipment, or
 material furnished within 20 days prior to the service of such
 notice and at any time thereafter.
    (e) Any agreement made or entered into by an owner
 whereby the owner agrees to waive the rights or privileges con-
 ferred upon him by this section shall be void and of no effect.
    (f) Service of notice required under this section may be
 given by delivering the same to the person to be notified,
 personally, or by leaving it at his address or place of business
 with some person in charge, or by first-class mail, registered
 mail, or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person
3002               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                TQ^ }46g

 to whom notice is to be given, at his residence or place of busi-
 ness address, at the address shown by the building permit on
 file with the authority issuing a building permit for the work,
 or at an address recorded pursuant to subdivision (k) of this
 section. If the address of the person on whom notice was
 required to be served is not actually known, then service of
 such notice may be by first-class mail, registered mail, or certi-
 fied mail addressed to the jobsite with the envelope setting
 forth the name of the owner or reputed owner, if known, or if
 not known, then merely '' Owner," or to the person to whom a
 notice to withhold may be given, if known, or if not known,
 then to "Construction Lender," or to the original contractor,
 if known, or if not known, then to "General Contractor."
 When service is by registered or certified mail, service is com-
 plete at the time of the deposit of the registered or certified
 mail.
     (g) A person required by this section to give notice to the
 owner and to an original contractor and to a person to whom
 a notice to withhold may be given, need give only one such
 notice to the owner, and to the original contractor and to the
 person to whom a notice to withhold may be given with
respect to all materials, service, labor, or equipment he fur-
nishes for a work of improvement, which means the entire
structure or scheme of improvements as a whole, unless the
same is furnished under contracts with more than one sub-
contractor, in which event the notice requirements must be
 met with respect to materials, services, labor, or equipment
furnished to each such subcontractor.
    If a notice contains a general description required by sub-
division (a) or (b) of the materials, services, labor, or equip-
ment furnished to the date of the notice, it is not defective
because, after such date, the person giving notice furnishes
materials, services, labor or equipment not within the scope of
such general description.
    (h) Where the contract price to be paid to any subcontrac-
tor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four hundred
dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, licensed under
Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division 3 of
the Business and Professions Code, to give the notice provided
for in this section constitutes grounds for disciplinary action
by the Eegistrar of Contractors.
    (i) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
public work which is subject to the notice provisions of Section
4210 of the Government Code.
    (j) Every city, county, city and county, or other govern-
mental authority issuing building permits shall, in its applica-
tion form for a building permit, provide space and a designa-
tion for the applicant to enter the name, branch designation if
any, and address of the construction lender and shall keep such
information on file open for public inspection during the regu-
lar business hours of the authority.
                    1969
Ch. 1468]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3Q03

   If there is no known construction lender, that fact shall be
noted in such designated space. Any failure to indicate the
name and address of the construction lender on such applica-
tion, however, shall not relieve any person from the obligation
to give to such construction lender the notice required by this
section.
    (k) A mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument secur-
ing a loan, any of the proceeds of which may be used for the
purpose of constructing improvements on real property, shall
bear the designation "Construction Trust Deed" prominently
on its face and shall state all of the following: (1) the name
and address of the lender, and the name and address of the
owner of the real property described in the instrument, and
 (2) a legal description of the real property which secures the
loan and, if known, the street address of the property. The
failure to be so designated or to state any of the information
required by this subdivision shall not affect the validity of any
such mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument.
   Failure to provide such information on such an instrument
when recorded shall not relieve persons required to give pre-
liminary notice under this section from such duty.
   The county recorder of the county in which such instru-
ment is recorded shall indicate in the general index of the
official records of the county that such instrument secures a
construction loan.
   SEC. 3. Section 3097 of the Civil Code, as added by Senate
Bill No. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   3097. "Preliminary 20-day notice (private w o r k ) " means
a written notice from a claimant that is given prior to the
recording of a mechanic's lien and prior to the filing of a stop
notice, and is required to be given under the following circum-
stances :
    (a) Except one under direct contract with the owner or one
performing actual labor for wages, every person who furnishes
labor, service, equipment, or material for which a lien other-
wise can be claimed under this title, or for which a notice to
withhold can otherwise be given under this title, must, as a
necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim of lien, and
of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the owner or
reputed owner, to the original contractor, or reputed contrac-
tor, and to the construction lender, if any, or to the reputed
construction lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as
prescribed by this section.
    (b) All persons having a direct contract with the owner,
except the contractor or one performing actual labor for wages,
who furnish labor, service, equipment, or material for which
a lien otherwise can be claimed under this title, or for which
a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under this title,
must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim
of lien, and of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the
3004              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qfa ±4.Qg

construction lender, if any, or to the reputed construction
lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as prescribed by
this section.
   (c) The preliminary notice referred to in subdivisions (a)
and (b) shall be given not later than 20 days after the claim-
ant has first furnished labor, service, equipment, or materials
to the jobsite, and shall contain the following information:
   (1) A general description of the labor, service, equipment,
or materials furnished, or to be furnished, and if there is a
construction lender, he shall be furnished with an estimate of
the total price thereof in addition to the foregoing.
   (2) The name and address of such person furnishing such
labor, services, equipment, or materials.
   (3) The name of the person who contracted for purchase
of such labor, service, equipment, or materials.
   (4) A description of the jobsite sufficient for identification.
   (5) A statement that if bills are not paid in full for labor,
service, equipment, or material furnished, or to be furnished,
the improved property may be subject to mechanic's liens.
   If an invoice for such materials contains the information
required by this section, a copy of such invoice, transmitted
in the manner prescribed by this section shall be sufficient
notice.
   A certificated architect who has furnished services for the
design of the work of improvement and who gives a prelimi-
nary notice as provided in this section not later than 20 days
after the work of improvement has commenced shall be
deemed to have complied with subdivisions (a) and (b) with
respect to architectural services furnished, or to be furnished.
   (d) If labor, service, equipment, or materials have been fur-
nished to a jobsite by a person who elected not to give a
preliminary notice as provided in subdivision (a) or (b), such
person shall not be precluded from giving a preliminary notice
not later than 20 days after furnishing other labor, service,
equipment, or materials to the same jobsite. Such person shall,
however, be entitled to claim a lien and a notice to withhold
only for such labor, service, equipment, or material furnished
within 20 days prior to the service of such notice, and at any
time thereafter.
   (e) Any agreement made or entered into by an owner,
whereby the owner agrees to waive the rights or privileges
conferred upon him by this section shall be void and of no
effect.
   (f) Service of notice required under this section may be
given by delivering the same to the person to be notified,
personally, or by leaving it at his address or place of busi-
ness with some person in charge, or by first-class mail, reg-
istered mail, or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
the person to whom notice is to be given at his residence or
place of business address, at the address shown by the build-
ing permit on file with the authority issuing a building per-
                    1969
Oh. 1468]                  feElOTI*AB. SESSION              3005

mit for the work, or at an address recorded pursuant to
subdivision (j) of this section. If the address of the person on
whom notice was required to be served is not actually known,
then service of such notice may be by first-class mail,
registered mail, or certified mail, addressed to the jobsite, with
the envelope setting forth the name of the owner or reputed
owner, if known, or if not known, then merely " o w n e r " or to
the person to whom a notice to withhold may be given, if
known, or if not known, then to "construction lender" or to
the original contractor, if known, or if not known, then to
"general contractor". When service is by registered or certi-
fied mail, service is complete at the time of the deposit of the
registered or certified mail.
    (g) A person required by this section to give notice to the
owner and to an original contractor, and to a person to whom
a notice to withhold may be given, need give only one such
notice to the owner, and to the original contractor and to the
person to whom a notice to withhold may be given with respect
to all materials, service, labor, or equipment he furnishes for a
work of improvement, which means the entire structure or
scheme of improvements as a whole, unless the same is fur-
nished under contracts with more than one subcontractor, in
which event, the notice requirements must be met with respect
to materials, services, labor, or equipment furnished to each
such contractor.
   If a notice contains a general description required by sub-
 division (a) or (b) of the materials, services, labor, or equip-
ment furnished to the date of notice, it is not defective because,
 after such date, the person giving notice furnishes materials,
 services, labor, or equipment not within the scope of such gen-
 eral description.
    (h) Where the contract price to be paid to any subcon-
 tractor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four
 hundred dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, licensed
 under Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division
 3 of the Business and Professions Code, to give the notice pro-
 vided for in this section, constitutes grounds for disciplinary
 action by the Registrar of Contractors.
     (i) Every city, county, cily and county, or other governmen-
 tal authority issuing building permits shall, in its application
 form for a building permit, provide space and a designation
 for the applicant to enter the name, branch designation, if any,
 and address of the construction lender and shall keep the in-
 formation on file open for public inspection during the regular
 business hours of the authority.
    If there is no known construction lender, that fact shall be
 noted in such designated space. Any failure to indicate the
 name and address of the construction lender on such applica-
 tion, however, shall not relieve any person from the obligation
 to give to the construction lender the notice required by this
 section.
3006               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ Q ^ 14(Jg

     (j) A mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument securing
 a loan, any of the proceeds of which may be used for the
 purpose of constructing improvements on real property, shall
 bear the designation "Construction Trust Deed" prominently
 on its face and shall state all of the following: (1) the name
 and address of the lender, and the name and address of the
 owner of the real property described in the instrument, and
  (2) a legal description of the real property which secures the
 loan and, if known, the street address of the property. The
 failure to be so designated or to state any of the information
 required by this subdivision shall not affect the validity of
 any such mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument.
    Failure to provide such information on such an instrument
 when recorded shall not relieve persons required to give pre-
 liminary notice under this section from such duty.
    The county recorder of the county in which such instrument
 is recorded shall indicate in the general index of the official
 records of the county that such instrument secures a construc-
 tion loan.
    SEC. 4. Section 3097 of the Civil Code, as added by Sen-
 ate Bill No. 316 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
 is amended to read:
    3097. "Preliminary 20-day notice (private w o r k ) " means
 a written notice from a claimant that is given prior to the
 recording of a mechanic's lien and prior to the filing of a
 stop notice, and is required to be given under the following
 circumstances:
     (a) Except one under direct contract with the owner or one
 performing actual labor for wages, every person who furnishes
 labor, service, equipment, or material for which a lien otherwise
can be claimed under this title, or for which a notice to
 withhold can otherwise be given under this title, must, as a
necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim of lien,
 and of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the owner or
reputed owner, to the original contractor, or reputed contrac-
tor, and to the construction lender, if any, or to the reputed
construction lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as
prescribed by this section.
    (b) All persons having a direct contract with the owner,
except the contractor or one performing actual labor for wages,
who furnish labor, service, equipment, or material for which
a lien otherwise can be claimed under this title, or for which
a notice to withhold can otherwise be given under this title,
must, as a necessary prerequisite to the validity of any claim
of lien, and of a notice to withhold, cause to be given to the
construction lender, if any, or to the reputed construction
lender, if any, a written preliminary notice as prescribed by
this section.
    (c) The preliminary notice referred to in subdivisions (a)
and (b) shall be given not later than 20 days after the claim-
ant has first furnished labor, service, equipment, or materials
to the jobsite, and shall contain the following information:
Ch. 1468]            1369 R E G U L A R   SESSION            3007

    (1) A general description of the labor, service, equipment,
or materials furnished, or to be furnished, and if there is a
construction lender, he shall be furnished with an estimate of
the total price thereof in addition to the foregoing.
    (2) The name and address of such person furnishing such
labor, service, equipment, or materials.
    (3) The name of the person who contracted for purchase
of such labor, service, equipment, or materials.
    (4) A description of the jobsite sufficient for identification.
    (5) A statement that if bills are not paid in full for labor,
service, equipment, or material furnished, or to be furnished,
the improved property may be subject to mechanic's liens.
   If an invoice for such materials contains the information
required by this section, a copy of such invoice, transmitted
in the manner prescribed by this section shall be sufficient
notice.
   A certificated architect, registered engineer, or licensed land
surveyor who has furnished services for the design of the work
of improvement and who gives a preliminary notice as pro-
vided in this section not later than 20 days after the work of
improvement has commenced shall be deemed to have com-
plied with subdivisions (a) and (b) with respect to architec-
tural, engineering, or surveying services furnished, or to be
furnished.
    (d) If labor, service, equipment, or materials have been fur-
nished to a jobsite by a person who elected not to give a
preliminary notice as provided in subdivision (a) or (b), such
person shall not be precluded from giving a preliminary notice
not later than 20 days after furnishing other labor, service,
equipment, or materials to the same jobsite. Such person shall,
however, be entitled to claim a lien and a notice to withhold
only for such labor, service, equipment, or material furnished
within 20 days prior to the service of such notice, and at any
time thereafter.
    (e) Any agreement made or entered into by an owner,
whereby the owner agrees to waive the rights or privileges
 conferred upon him by this section shall be void and of no
 effect.
    (f) Service of notice required under this section may be
 given by delivering the same to the person to be notified,
 personally, or by leaving it at his address or place of busi-
 ness with some person in charge, or by first-class mail, reg-
 istered mail, or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
 the person to whom notice is to be given at his residence or
 place of business address, at the address shown by the
 building permit on file with the authority issuing a building
 permit for the work, or at an address recorded pursuant to
 subdivision (j) of this section. If the address of the person on
 whom notice was required to be served is not actually known,
 then service of such notice may be by first-class mail, registered


    95—1954
3008               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQJ1> \4.QQ

 mail, or certified mail, addressed to the jobsite, with the enve-
 lope setting forth the name of the owner or reputed owner, if
 known, or if not known, then merely " o w n e r " or to the per-
 son to whom a notice to withhold may be given, if known, or
 if not known, then to "construction lender" or to the original
 contractor, if known, or if not known, then to "general con-
 tractor". When service is by registered or certified mail, serv-
 ice is complete at the time of the deposit of the registered or
 certified mail.
     (g) A person required by this section to give notice to the
 owner and to an original contractor, and to a person to whom
 a notice to withhold may be given, need give only one such
 notice to the owner, and to the original contractor and to the
 person to whom a notice to withhold may be given with respect
 to all materials, service, labor, or equipment he furnishes for a
 work of improvement, which means the entire structure or
 scheme of improvements as a whole, unless the same is fur-
 nished under contracts with more than one subcontractor, in
 which event, the notice requirements must be met with respect
 to materials, services, labor, or equipment furnished to each
 such contractor.
    If a notice contains a general description required by sub-
 division (a) or (b) of the materials, services, labor, or equip-
 ment furnished to the date of notice, it is not defective because,
 after such date, the person giving notice furnishes materials,
 services, labor, or equipment not within the scope of such gen-
 eral description.
     (h) Where the contract price to be paid to any subcon-
tractor on a particular work of improvement exceeds four
hundred dollars ($400), the failure of that contractor, licensed
under Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of Division
3 of the Business and Professions Code, to give the notice pro-
vided for in this section, constitutes grounds for disciplinary
action by the Eegistrar of Contractors.
    (i) Every city, county, city and county, or other govern-
mental authority issuing building permits shall, in its applica-
tion form for a building permit, provide space and a designa-
tion for the applicant to enter the name, branch designation,
if any, and address of the construction lender and shall keep
the information on file open for public inspection during the
regular business hours of the authority.
    If there is no known construction lender, that fact shall be
noted in such designated space. Any failure to indicate the
name and address of the construction lender on such applica-
tion, however, shall not relieve any person from the obliga-
tion to give to the construction lender the notice required by
this section.
    (j) A mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument secur-
ing a loan, any of the proceeds of which may be used for the
purpose of constructing improvements on real property, shall
bear the designation "Construction Trust Deed" prominently
on its face and shall state all of the following: (1) the name
                       1969
Ch. 1469]                     REGULAR SESSION                     3009

and address of the lender, and the name and address of the
owner of the real property described in the instrument, and
 (2) a legal description of the real property which secures the
loan and, if known, the street address of the property. The
failure to be so designated or to state any of the information
required by this subdivision shall not affect the validity of any
such mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument.
   Failure to provide such information on such an instrument
when recorded shall not relieve persons required to give pre-
liminary notice under this section from such duty.
    The county recorder of the county in which such instru-
ment is recorded shall indicate in the general index of the
official records of the county that such instrument secures a
construction loan.
    SEC. 5. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by
both this bill and S.B. 730 are enacted, that both amendments
be given effect and incorporated in Section 1193 in the form
set forth in Section 2 of this act. Therefore, in the event S.B.
730 is enacted and amends Section 1193, Section 2 of this act
shall become operative at the same time that Section 1193 as
amended by S.B. 730 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure as amended by
Section 1 of this act is repealed.
    SEC. 6. Section 3 of this act shall become operative only
 if S.B. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session is enacted and adds
Section 3097 to the Civil Code, and in such case, shall become
operative at the same time as S.B. 316 becomes operative, at
which time Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure as
amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.
    SEC. 7. Section 4 of this act shall become operative only
 if S.B. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session is enacted and adds
 Section 3097 to the Civil Code and S.B. 730 of the 1969 Regu-
 lar Session is enacted and amends Section 1193 of the Code
 of Civil Procedure, and, in such case, shall become operative
 at the same time as S.B. 316 and S.B. 730 become operative,
 at which time Section 1193 of the Code of Civil Procedure as
 amended by Section 1 of this act is repealed.


                              CHAPTER 1469
An act to amend and renumber Sections 25302 and 25302.5
  of, to amend Section 25500 of, and to repeal Section 25301
  of, the Elections Code, relating to declarations of intention.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION    1.   Section 25301 of the Elections Code is repealed.
3010               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQJ1_ 14.QQ

    SEC. 2. Section 25302 of the Elections Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
    25301. Except in the case of a judicial office filled in ac-
cordance with subdivision (d) of Section 16 of Article VI of
the Constitution, every candidate for a judicial office, whether
his declaration of candidacy is made personally, or by spon-
sors, not more than 15 nor less than 5 days prior to the
first day on which his nomination papers may be circulated
and signed or may be presented for filing, shall file in the
 office of the county clerk in which his nomination papers are
required to be filed or left for examination, a written and
signed declaration in duplicate of his intention to become a
 candidate for that office on a form to be supplied by the county
 clerk. A candidate for a numerically designated judicial office
 shall state in his declaration for which office he intends to
become a candidate. A copy of each declaration of intention
filed in accordance with this article, except those for munici-
pal and justice court offices, shall be immediately forwarded by
the county clerk to the Secretary of State. This section shall
apply to all judicial offices whether numerically designated or
not.
    SEC. 3. Section 25302.5 of the Elections Code is amended
and renumbered to read:
    25302. A declaration of candidacy for election or a nomi-
nation by the Governor, made pursuant to subdivision (d) of
Section 16 of Article VI of the Constitution, shall be filed
with the officer charged with the duty of certifying nomina-
tions for publication in the official ballot.
    SEC. 4. Section 25500 of the Elections Code is amended to
read:
    25500. (a) Each candidate for a party nomination for the
office of State Senator or Member of the Assembly at the direct
primary election, whether his declaration of candidacy is to
be made personally or by sponsors, shall file in the office of the
county clerk in which his nomination papers are required to
be left for examination a written and signed declaration
of his intention to become a candidate for his party's nomina-
tion for that office. The declaration of intention shall be filed
in duplicate, on forms to be supplied by the county clerk, not
more than 15 nor less than 5 days prior to the first day on
which his nomination papers may be presented for filing. The
county clerk shall within five days forward the original of
each declaration of intention filed in accordance with this sec-
tion to the Secretary of State. An incumbent State Senator
or Member of the Assembly may alternatively file his declara-
tion of his intention in the office of Secretary of State, who
shall within five days provide a copy of each such filing to the
county clerk concerned. The declaration of intention provided
for in this section shall be in substantially the following form:
                         1969
Ch. 1471]                       REGULAR SESSION                       3011

  I hereby declare my intention to become a candidate for the
                       P a r t y ' s nomination for the office of
 (Name of political party)
                             , at the direct primary election.
(Name of office and district)

                                           (Signature of candidate)

                                            (Address of candidate)

   (b) No person may be a candidate nor have his name
printed upon any ballot as a candidate for a party nomination
for the office of State Senator or Member of the Assembly at
the direct primary election unless he has filed the declaration
of intention provided for in this section; provided, however,
that if the incumbent of the office, for any reason, fails to qual-
ify for nomination for the office by the last day prescribed for
the filing of nomination papers, an additional five days shall
be allowed for the filing of nomination papers for the office,
and any person, if otherwise qualified, may file nomination
papers for the office during the extended period, notwithstand-
ing that he has not filed a written and signed declaration of
intention to become a candidate for the office as provided in
subdivision (a) of this section.
   SEC. 5. Section 4 of this act shall become inoperative upon
the enactment of Assembly Bill No. 1787.


                             CHAPTER 1470
An act to repeal Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 25500)
  of Division 13 of the Elections Code, relating to declarations
  of intent.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1669. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows;

  SECTION 1. Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 25500) of
Division 13 of the Elections Code is repealed.


                             C H A P T E B 1471
An act to amend Sections 38100, 38200, 38201, 38202, and
  38300 of, and to repeal Article 6 (commencing with Section
  38310) of Chapter 1 of Division 25 of, the Health and Safety
  Code, as enacted by Assembly Bill No. 387 of the 1969 Reg-
  ular Session of the Legislature, relating to mentally re-
  tarded.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1909.]
3012              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQJj. 1471

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 38100 of the Health and Safety Code,
as enacted by Assembly Bill No. 387 of the 1969 Regular
Session of the Legislature, is amended to read:
   38100. The board shall advise the Secretary of the Human
Relations Agency on the initiation, coordination, and imple-
mentation of programs and projects for the mentally retarded,
including, but not limited to, the following:
    (a) Present and proposed programs of service for the men-
tally retarded of state, local governmental, and voluntary
agencies.
    (b) The development of a coordinated plan of state and
local services for the mentally retarded, and the development
and formulation of a master plan for establishing responsibil-
ities for the total array of mental retardation services.
    (c) Standards for services in various facilities that are now
being operated or which will hereafter be created.
    (d) Standards and rates of state payment for any services
purchased with state funds for mentally retarded persons
through the regional diagnostic, counseling service centers as
may be defined in Article 7.5 (commencing with Section 415)
 of Chapter 2, Part 1, Division 1 of this code.
    (e) The development of uniform recordkeeping in all serv-
ices for the mentally retarded.
    (f) The coordination of services and research activities in
the field of mental retardation, including the evaluation of
 services and programs, studies of the prevalence of mental
retardation, and the development of experimental programs.
    (g) The stimulation of planning for professional training
 in the state universities and colleges.
   SEC. 2. Section 38200 of the Health and Safety Code, as
 enacted by Assembly Bill No. 387 of the 1969 Regular Session
 of the Legislature, is amended to read:
   38200. The Secretary of the Human Relations Agency shall
adopt rules and regulations prescribing standards of service
which shall be satisfied and maintained as a condition to the
payment of state funds for residential care of the mentally
retarded by a regional diagnostic, counseling service center.
   The Secretary of the Human Relations Agency shall adopt
standards for all nonresidential professional services which
may be purchased for mentally retarded persons with state
funds by a regional, diagnostic, counseling service center for
the mentally retarded.
   The Secretary of the Human Relations Agency shall pro-
vide regional centers with current lists of approved facilities
and services. Regional centers may not expend state funds for
services which are not approved by the secretary, notwith-
standing any other certification, licensing, or approval of the
facility or service.
   The secretary shall not adopt standards which are in con-
flict with those adopted by the State Board of Education with
                       1969
Ch. 1472]                     REGULAR SESSION                     3013

regard to special classes for the mentally retarded in the pub-
lic schools.
   SEC. 3. Section 38201 of the Health and Safety Code, as
enacted by Assembly Bill No. 387 of the 1969 Regular Session
of the Legislature, is amended to read:
   38201. If there is evidence that a vendor of services does
not meet the standards prescribed by the Secretary of the
Human Relations Agency, the regional centers may immedi-
ately withdraw payment of state funds to such vendor.
   SEC. 4. Section 38202 of the Health and Safety Code, as
enacted by Assembly Bill No. 387 of the 1969 Regular Session
of the Legislature, is amended to read:
   38202. The Secretary of the Human Relations Agency shall
establish rates of state payment for services purchased by
regional centers for mentally retarded persons.
   Rates of state payment shall be based on the value of units
of service rendered.
   SEC. 5. Section 38300 of the Health and Safety Code, as
enacted by Assembly Bill No. 387 of the 1969 Regular Session
of the Legislature, is amended to read:
   38300. To carry out his responsibilities for mental retarda-
tion under this division and other pertinent statutes, the Sec-
retary of the Human Relations Agency shall designate a
Coordinator of Mental Retardation Programs and such staff
as is required.
   SEC. 6. Article 6 (commencing with Section 38310) of
Chapter 1 of Division 25 of the Health and Safety Code, as
enacted by Assembly Bill No. 387 of the 1969 Regular Session
of the Legislature, is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Sections 1 to 6, inclusive, of this act shall become
operative only if Assembly Bill No. 387 is enacted, and in such
case at the same time as Assembly Bill No. 387 takes effect.


                           CHAPTER 1472
An act to add Article 4 (commencing with Section 6995.1) to
  Chapter 10.5 of Division 6 of the Education Code, to add
  Section 12803.7 to the Government Code, and to amend the
  heading of Article 1 (commencing with Section 5150) of,
  and to add Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 5170) to,
  Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 5 of, Chapter 9 (commenc-
  ing with Section 19850) to Part 2 of Division 10 as proposed
  to he added oy Senate Bill No. 840 to, the Welfare and Insti-
  tutions Code, relating to alcoholics.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]
3014               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo_ 1 4 7 2

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 4 (commencing with Section 6995.1)
is added to Chapter 10.5 of Division 6 of the Education Code,
to read:
               Article 4. Chronic Alcoholics
   6995.1. Each county may establish a comprehensive treat-
ment and rehabilitation program for chronic alcoholics. Each
program may include, but is not limited to, inpatient extended
care facilities, outpatient aftercare facilities, supportive resi-
dential facilities, vocational and family counseling services,
and rehabilitation services. I t is the intent of the Legislature
that such a program will make available strong educational
and proselytizing techniques so that the individual is attracted
to the services offered, and will utilize public and private re-
sources.
   6995.2. Treatment and rehabilitation programs may be
planned, administered, and supervised by the county agency
determined by the county board of supervisors.
   6995.3. Subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Human Eelations Agency, the Department of [Rehabilitation
shall prepare rules, standards, and procedures, necessary and
proper for the planning and effective operation of treatment
and rehabilitation programs. In preparing such rules, stand-
ards, and procedures, the Der>artment of Rehabilitation shall
consult with the State Department of Mental Hygiene and
the State Department of Public Health and State Board of
Public Health. Such rules, standards, and procedures shall, to
the extent feasible, be consistent and coordinated with any
adopted pursuant to the McAteer Alcoholism Act.
   6995.4. If a county determines that it will establish a com-
prehensive treatment and rehabilitation program for chronic
alcoholics, the county shall prepare a county plan for such
a treatment and rehabilitation program in strict conformance
with the rules, standards, and procedures provided for in Sec-
tion 6995.3. Such plans shall be submitted to the Department
of Rehabilitation. The Department of Rehabilitation shall re-
view all county plans, determine whether they comply with
the rules, standards, and procedures promulgated pursuant to
this section, and grant or deny approval of such plans on the
basis of that determination. The Department of Rehabilita-
tion, the State Department of Mental Hygiene, and the State
Department of Public Health shall consult with and render
assistance to any county which requests information or ad-
vice concerning the planning and operation of its local plan.
   The State Department of Public Health has the primary
responsibility of consulting with and assisting any county
making such request with respect to any medical services pro-
vided by the local plan.
   6997. Any person may voluntarily place himself in the
care of the applicable county agency, as determined by the
                    1969
Ch. 1472]                  REGULAR SESSION                3Q15

county board of supervisors pursuant to Section 6995.2, to
receive treatment for chronic alcoholism in a treatment and
rehabilitation program established under Section 6995.1. Such
county agency shall refuse admission only to those volunteers
who do not reasonably appear to be in need of care, or those
volunteers whose admission would prejudice the treatment of
any person or persons entrusted to its care under any other
provisions of this article, or if the program is not able, be-
cause of lack of resources, to accommodate such volunteers.
   6997.1. Any person who is convicted under the provisions
of subdivision (f) of Section 647 of the Penal Code with re-
spect to intoxicating liquor may be granted probation if such
person joins and makes use of the treatment and rehabilita-
tion program established under Section 6995.1.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 12803.7 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   12803.7. The Human Eelations Agency shall be the single
state agency authorized to receive any federal funds payable
directly to the state to implement programs for the prevention,
treatment and rehabilitation of chronic alcoholics. The desig-
nation of the Human Kelations Agency as the single state
agency shall not be construed as an impediment to local gov-
ernments receiving federal funds directly in those instances
where such funds are directly payable to local government.
   SEC. 1.6. The heading of Article 1 (commencing with Sec-
tion 5150) of Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 5 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code is amended to read:
    Article 1. Detention of Mentally Disordered Persons
               for Evaluation and Treatment
  SEC. 2. Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 5170) is
added to Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 5 of the Welfare
and Institutions Code, to read:

            Article 1.5. Detention of Inebriates for
                   Evaluation and Treatment
   5170. When any person is a danger to others, or to him-
self, or greatly disabled as a result of inebriation, a peace
officer, member of the attending staff, as defined by regula-
tion, of an evaluation facility designated by the county, or
other person designated by the county may, upon reasonable
cause, take, or cause to be taken, the person into custody and
place him in a facility designated by the county and approved
by the State Department of Mental Hygiene as a facility for
72-hour trealrnent and evaluation of inebriates.
   Such facility shall require an application in writing stating
the circumstances under which the person's condition was
called to the attention of the officer, member of the attending
staff, or other designated person, and stating that the officer,
member of the attending staff, or other designated person be-
3016                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                m ^   ^472

  lieves as a result of his personal observations that the person
  is, as a result of inebriation, a danger to others, or to himself,
 or gravely disabled.
     5171. If the facility for 72-hour treatment and evaluation
  of inebriates admits the person, it may detain him for evalu-
 ation and detoxification treatment, and such other treatment
  as may be indicated, for a period not to exceed 72 hours, ex-
 cluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays if evaluation and
  treatment services are not available on those days.
     If in the judgment of the professional person in charge of
  the facility providing evaluation and treatment, the person
 can be properly served without being detained, he shall be
 provided evaluation, detoxification treatment or other treat-
 ment, crisis intervention, or other inpatient or outpatient serv-
 ices on a voluntary basis.
     5172. Each person admitted to a facility for 72-hour treat-
 ment and evaluation under the provisions of this article shall
 receive an evaluation as soon after he is admitted as possible
 and shall receive such treatment and care as his condition
 requires for the full period that he is held. Such person shall
 be released before 72 hours have elapsed if, in the opinion of
 the professional person in charge of the facility, the person
 no longer requires evaluation or treatment.
     Persons who have been detained for evaluation and treat-
 ment shall be released, and may be referred for further care
 and treatment on a voluntary basis. If such a person could
 also have been detained under Article 1 (commencing with
 Section 5150) of this chapter, he may be deemed to have been
 detained under that article, and certified for intensive treat-
 ment or recommended for conservatorship pursuant to this
 part as required.
     5173. The professional person in charge of the facility
 providing 72-hour treatment and evaluation, and the peace
 officer responsible for the detainment of the person shall not
 be held civilly or criminally liable for any action by a person
 released at or before the end of 72 hours pursuant to this
 article.
     5174. I t is the intent of the Legislature that facilities for
 72-hour treatment and evaluation of inebriates be subject to
 state funding under Part 2 (commencing with Section 5600)
 of this division only if they primarily provide medical services
 and would normally be considered an integral part of a com-
munity health program. Services provided under this act shall
not be included in Priority 1 funding under the Short-Doyle
program. "While facilities previously receiving funds from
other sources may be designated as facilities for 72-hour treat-
ment and evaluation of inebriates, it is intended that they con-
tinue such previous funding. McAteer funds or facilities shall
not be utilized for the purposes of the 72-hour involuntary
holding program as outlined in this chapter.
    To this end, no facility for 72-hour treatment and evaluation
of inebriates shall be eligible for funding under Part 2 (com-
                     1969
Ch. 1472]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3017

mencing with Section 5600) of this division until approved by
the Director of Mental Hygiene.
   5175. Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent
a facility designated as a facility for 72-hour evaluation and
treatment of inebriates from also being designated as a facility
for 72-hour evaluation and treatment of other persons subject
to this part, including persons impaired by chronic alcoholism.
   5176. This article shall apply only to those counties wherein
the board of supervisors has adopted a resolution stating that
suitable facilities exist within the county for the care and
treatment of inebriates, designating the facilities to be used
as facilities for 72-hour treatment and evaluation of inebriates,
and otherwise adopting the provisions of this article.
   SEC. 3. Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 19850) is
added to Part 2 of Division 10 as proposed to be added by
Senate Bill No. 840, to read:

              CHAPTER 9.      CHRONIC ALCOHOLICS

   19850. Bach county may establish a comprehensive treat-
ment and rehabilitation program for chronic alcoholics. Bach
program may include, but is not limited to, inpatient extended
care facilities, outpatient aftercare facilities, supportive resi-
dential facilities, vocational and family counseling services,
and rehabilitation services. It is the intent of the Legislature
that such a program will make available strong educational
and proselytizing techniques so that the individual is attracted
to the services offered, and will utilize public and private re-
sources.
   19851. Treatment and rehabilitation programs may be
planned, administered, and supervised by the county agency
determined by the county board of supervisors.
   19852. Subject to the approval of the Secretary of the
Human Eelations Agency, the Department of Rehabilitation
shall prepare rules, standards, and procedures, necessary and
proper for the planning and effective operation of treatment
and rehabilitation programs. In preparing such rules, stand-
ards, and procedures, the Department of Rehabilitation shall
consult with the State Department of Mental Hygiene and
the State Department of Public Health and State Board of
Public Health. Such rules, standards, and procedures shall, to
the extent feasible, be consistent and coordinated with any
adopted pursuant to the McAteer Alcoholism Act.
   19853. If a county determines that it will establish a com-
prehensive treatment and rehabilitation program for chronic
alcoholics, the county shall prepare a county plan for such
a treatment and rehabilitation program in strict conformance
with the rules, standards, and procedures provided for in Sec-
tion 19852. Such plans shall be submitted to the Department
of Rehabilitation. The Department of Rehabilitation shall re-
view all county plans, determine whether they comply with
the rules, standards, and procedures promulgated pursuant to
3018               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   r Qfo 1 4 7 3

this section, and grant or deny approval of such plans on the
basis of that determination. The Department of Rehabilita-
tion, the State Department of Mental Hygiene, and the State
Department of Public Health shall consult with and render
assistance to any county which requests information or ad-
vice concerning the planning and operation of its local plan.
   The State Department of Public Health has the primary
responsibility of consulting with and assisting any county
making such request with respect to any medical services pro-
vided by the local plan.
   19854. Any person may voluntarily place himself in the
care of the applicable county agency, as determined by the
county board of supervisors pursuant to Section 19851, to
receive treatment for chronic alcoholism in a treatment and
rehabilitation program established under Section 19850. Such
county agency shall refuse admission only to those volunteers
who do not reasonably appear to be in need of care, or those
volunteers whose admission would prejudice the treatment of
any person or persons entrusted to its care under any other
provisions of this article, or if the program is not able, be-
cause of lack of resources, to accommodate such volunteers.
   19855. Any person who is convicted under the provisions
of subdivision (f) of Section 647 of the Penal Code with re-
spect to intoxicating liquor may be granted probation if such
person joins and makes use of the treatment and rehabilita-
tion program established under Section 19850.
   SEC. 4. Section 3 of this act shall become operative only
if Senate Bill 840 is enacted by the Legislature at its 1969
Eegular Session, and in such case at the same time as Senate
Bill 840 takes effect at which time Section 1 of this act is
repealed.

                        CHAPTER 1473
An act to amend Sections 51201 and 51220 of, to add Sections
  51205 and 51254 to, and to repeal the heading of Article 3.5
  (commencing with Section 51255) of Chapter 7 of Part 1
  of Division 1 of Title 5 of, the Government Code, relating
  to the California Land Conservation Act of 1965.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 196 9. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 51201 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   51201. As used in this chapter, unless otherwise apparent
from the context:
   (a) "Agricultural commodity" means any and all plant
and animal products produced in this state for commercial
purposes.
                     1969
Ch. 1473]                   REGULAR SESSION                   gQl9

   (b) "Agricultural u s e " means use of land for the purpose
of producing an agricultural commodity for commercial pur-
poses.
   (c) "Prime agricultural l a n d " means:
   (1) All land which qualifies for rating as class I or class I I
in the Soil Conservation Service land use capability classifi-
cations.
   (2) Land which qualifies for rating 80 through 100 in the
Storie Index Eating.
   (3) Land which supports livestock used for the production
of food and fiber and which has an annual carrying capacity
equivalent to at least one animal unit per acre as defined by
the United States Department of Agriculture.
   (4) Land planted with fruit- or nut-bearing trees, vines,
bushes or crops which have a nonbearing period of less than
five years and which will normally return during the commer-
cial bearing period on an annual basis from the production of
unprocessed agricultural plant production not less than two
hundred dollars ($200) per acre.
   (5) Land which has returned from the production of un-
processed agricultural plant products an annual gross value
of not less than two hundred dollars ($200) per acre for three
of the previous five years.
   (d) "Agricultural preserve" means an area devoted to
agricultural, open space as defined in subdivision (n), and
compatible uses as designated by a city or county, and estab-
lished by resolution of the governing body of a city or county
after a public hearing.
   (e) "Compatible u s e " is any use determined by the county
or city administering the preserve pursuant to Section 51231
or Section 51238 or by this act to be compatible with the agri-
cultural or open-space use of land within the preserve and
subject to contract.
   (f) " B o a r d " means the board of supervisors of a county
which establishes or proposes to establish an agricultural pre-
serve or which enters or proposps to enter into a contract on
land within an agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter.
   (g) "Council" means the city council of a city which estab-
lishes or proposes to establish an agricultural preserve or which
enters or proposes to enter into a contract on land within an
agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter.
   (h) Except where it is otherwise apparent from the con-
text, " c o u n t y " or " c i t y " means the county or city having
jurisdiction over the land.
   (i) A "scenic highway corridor" is an area adjacent to,
and within view of, the right-of-way of:
   (1) An existing or proposed state scenic highway in the
state scenic highway system established by the Legislature
pursuant to Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 260) of
Chapter 2 of Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code
and which has been officially designated by the Director of
3020               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Qfa J 4 7 3

 the Department of Public Works as an official state scenic
 highway; or
    (2) A county scenic highway established pursuant to Arti-
 cle 2.5 (commencing with Section 260) of Chapter 2 of Divi-
 sion 1 of the Streets and Highways Code, if each of the follow-
 ing conditions have been met:
     (A) The scenic highway is included in an adopted general
 plan of the county or city; and
     (B) The scenic highway corridor is included in an adopted
 specific plan of the county or city; and
     (C) Specific proposals for implementing the plan, includ-
 ing regulation of land use, have been approved by the Ad-
 visory Committee on a Master Plan for Scenic Highways, and
 the county or city highway has been officially designated by
 the Director of the Department of Public "Works as an official
 county scenic highway.
     (j) A "wildlife habitat a r e a " is a land or water area des-
 ignated by a board or council, after consulting with and con-
 sidering the recommendation of the Department of Fish and
 Game, as an area of great importance for the protection or
 enhancement of the wildlife resources of the state.
     (k) A "saltpond" is an area which, for at least three con-
 secutive years immediately prior to being placed within an
 agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter, has been used
 for the solar evaporation of sea water in the course of salt
production for commercial purposes.
    (I) A "managed wetland a r e a " is an area, which may be
 an area diked off from the ocean or any bay, river or stream
to which water is occasionally admitted, and which, for at
 least three consecutive years immediately prior to being placed
 within an agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter, was
 used and maintained as a waterfowl hunting preserve or
game refuge or for agricultural purposes.
    (m) A "submerged a r e a " is any land determined by the
board or council to be submerged or subject to tidal action and
found by the board or council to be of great value to the state
as open space.
    (n) "Open space u s e " is the use or maintenance of land
in such a manner as to preserve its natural characteristics,
beauty, or openness for the benefit and enjoyment of the public,
to provide essential habitat for wildlife, or for the solar evap-
oration of sea water in the course of salt production for com-
mercial purposes, if such land is within:
    (1) A scenic highway corridor, as defined in subdivision (i).
    (2) A wildlife habitat area, as defined in subdivision (j).
    (3) A saltpond. as defined in subdivision (k).
    (4) A managed wetland area, as defined in subdivision (I).
    (5) A submerged area, as defined in subdivision (m).
   SEC. 2. Section 51201 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   51201. As used in this chapter, unless otherwise apparent
from the context:
                     1969
Ch. 1473]                   REGULAR SESSION                    3021

    (a) "Agricultural commodity" means any and all plant
 and animal products produced in this state for commercial
 purposes.
    (b) "Agricultural u s e " means use of land for the purpose
 of producing an agricultural commodity for commercial pur-
 poses.
    (c) " P r i m e agricultural l a n d " means (1) all land which
 qualifies for rating as class I or as class I I in the Soil Conser-
vation Service land use capability classifications, (2) land
which qualifies for rating 80 through 100 in the Storie Index
Rating, (3) land which supports livestock used for the pro-
duction of food and fiber, and which has an annual carrying
 capacity equivalent to at least one animal unit per acre as
 defined by the United States Department of Agriculture, (4)
land planted with fruit- or nut-bearing trees, vines, bushes or
crops which have a nonbearing period of less than five years
and during the commercial bearing period will normally return
on an annual basis from the production of unprocessed agri-
cultural plant production not less than two hundred dollars
 ($200) per acre, or (5) land which has returned from the pro-
duction of unprocessed agricultural plant products an annual
gross value of not less than two hundred dollars ($200) per
acre for three of the previous five years.
   (d) "Agricultural preserve" means an area devoted to
agricultural, open space as defined in subdivision (I), and
compatible uses as designated by a city or county, and estab-
lished by resolution of the governing body of a city or county
after a public hearing. When a county proposes to establish
an agricultural preserve it shall give written notice at least
two weeks before the hearing to the local agency formation
commission and to every city within one mile of the exterior
boundaries of the preserve. Notice of the hearing shall be
published pursuant to Section 6061 ol the Government Code.
The governing body may, by resolution, provide procedures
for initiating, filing and processing requests to establish agri-
cultural preserves. The same procedure to establish an agri-
cultural preserve shall be used to enlarge or diminish the size
of an agricultural preserve including disestablishment of an
agricultural preserve. In the event any proposed alteration of
the boundary of an agricultural preserve or proposed dis-
establishment of an agricultural preserve will remove land
under contract or agreement from an agricultural preserve,
notice of the proposed alteration or disestablishment and
hearing date shall be furnished by the county or city to the
owner by registered United States mail directed to him at his
latest address known to the county or city and such notice
shall be furnished in a like manner to each owner of land in
that preserve which has a common boundary with the land to
be removed from the agricultural preserve. Such preserves,
when established, shall be for the purpose of subsequently
placing restrictions upon the use of land within them, or sup-
3022              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r QJj. J 4 7 3

plementing existing restrictions, pursuant to the purposes of
this chapter. Such preserve may contain land other than prime
agricultural land, but the use of any land not under contract
within the preserve shall subsequently be restricted in such a
way as to not be incompatible with the agricultural use of the
prime agricultural land the use of which is limited by contract
in accordance with this chapter. Such preserve may also be
established even if it contains no prime agricultural land,
provided that the land within the preserve is subsequently
restricted to agricultural and compatible uses by agreement
as provided in Section 51255, or by any other suitable means.
    (e) Except as otherwise defined by this act, "compatible
u s e " shall be determined by the city or county administering
the agricultural preserve according to uniform rules. "Com-
patible u s e " is hereby determined by the Legislature to in-
clude the erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance of
gas, electric, water, or communication utility facilities, unless
the governing board makes a finding after notice and hearing
that any or all such facilities are not a compatible use. No
land occupied by gas, electric, water, or communication utility
facilities shall be excluded from a preserve by reason of such
use.
    (f) "Uniform rules" mean rules adopted by a city or
county for the administration of each agricultural preserve
including waiver of compensation pursuant to Section 51261,
and such rules shall be uniform throughout the agricultural
preserve for which the rules are adopted.
    (g) A "scenic highway corridor" is an area adjacent to and
within view of, the right-of-way of:
    (1) An existing or proposed state scenic highway in the
state scenic highway system established by the Legislature
pursuant to Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 260) of
 Chapter 2 of Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code and
which has been officially designated by the Director of the
Department of Public Works as an official state scenic high-
way; or
    (2) A county scenic highway established pursuant to Article
2.5 (commencing with Section 260) of Chapter 2 of Division 1
of the Streets and Highways Code, if each of the following
conditions have been met:
    (A) The scenic highway is included in an adopted general
plan of the county or city; and
    (B) The scenic highway corridor is included in an adopted
specific plan of the county or city; and
    (C) Specific proposals for implementing the plan, including
regulation of land use, have been approved by the Advisory
Committee on a Master Plan for Scenic Highways, and the
county or city highway has been officially designated by the
Director of the Department of Public Works as an official
county scenic highway.
                     1969
Ch. 1473]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3023

    (h) A "wildlife habitat a r e a " is a land or water area desig-
nated by a board or council, after counsulting with and consid-
ering the recommendation of the Department of Fish and
Game, as an area of great importance for the protection or
enhancement of the wildlife resources of the state.
    (i) A "saltpond" is an area which, for at least three con-
secutive years immediately prior to being placed within an
agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter, has been used
for the solar evaporation of sea water in the course of salt
production for commercial purposes.
    (3) A "managed wetland a r e a " is an area, which may be
an area diked off from the ocean or any bay, river or stream
to which water is occasionally admitted, and which, for at
least three consecutive years immediately prior to being placed
within an agricultural preserve pursuant to this chapter, was
used and maintained as a waterfowl hunting preserve or game
refuge or for agricultural purposes.
    (k) A "submerged a r e a " is any land determined by the
board or council to be submerged or subject to tidal action
and found by the board or council to be of great value to the
state as open space.
   (I) "Open space u s e " is the use or maintenance of land
in such a manner as to preserve its natural characteristics,
beauty, or openness for the benefit and enjoyment of the pub-
lic, to provide essential habitat for wildlife, or for the solar
evaporation of sea water in the course of salt production for
commercial purposes, if such land is within:
    (1) A scenic highway corridor, as denned in subdivision

    (2) A wildlife habitat area, as defined in subdivision (h).
    (3) A saltpond, as defined in subdivision (i).
    (4) A managed wetland area, as defined in subdivision (j).
    (5) A submerged area, as defined in subdivision (k).
   SEC. 3. Section 51205 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   51205. Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter to
the contrary, land within a scenic highway corridor, a wild-
life habitat area, a saltpond, a managed wetland area, or a
submerged area may be included wilhin an agricultural pre-
serve pursuant to this chapter. "When such land is included
within an agricultural preserve the city or county within
which it is situated may contract with the owner for the pur-
pose of restricting the land to open space use and uses com-
patible therewith in the same manner as provided in this
chapter for land devoted to agricultural use. For purposes of
this section, where the term "agricultural l a n d " is used in
this chapter, it shall be deemed to include land within a scenic
highway corridor, a wildlife habitat area, a saltpond, a man-
aged wetland area, or a submerged area, and where the term
"agricultural u s e " is used in this chapter, it shall be deemed
to include open space use.
3024              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1473

   SEC. 4. Section 51220 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   51220. The Legislature finds:
   (a) That the preservation of a maximum amount of the lim-
ited supply of agricultural land is necessary to the conser-
vation of the state's economic resources, and is necessary not
only to the maintenance of the agricultural economy of the
state, but also for the assurance of adequate, healthful and
nutritious food for future residents of this state and nation.
   (b) That the discouragement of premature and unneces-
 sary conversion of agricultural land to urban uses is a matter
of public interest and will be of benefit to urban dwellers
themselves in that it will discourage discontiguous urban
development patterns which unnecessarily increase the costs of
community services to community residents.
   (c) That in a rapidly urbanizing society agricultural lands
have a definite public value as open space, and the preservation
in agricultural production of such lands, the use of which may
be limited under the provisions of this chapter, constitutes an
important physical, social, esthetic and economic asset to exist-
ing or pending urban or metropolitan developments.
   (d) That land within a scenic highway corridor or wildlife
habitat area as defined in this chapter has a value to the state
because of its scenic beauty and its location adjacent to or
within view of a state scenic highway or because it is of great
importance as habitat for wildlife and contributes to the pres-
ervation or enhancement thereof.
   (e) For these reasons, this chapter is necessary for the pro-
motion of the general welfare and the protection of the public
interest in agricultural land.
   SEC. 5. Section 51254 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   51254. On or before the first day of September of each
year, the county assessor shall certify to the Director of Agri-
culture and to the State Board of Equalization the total num-
ber of acres of prime agricultural land, as defined in Section
51201, located within each school district or portion of a
school district within the county, if such land was subject to
a contract or agreement executed pursuant to this chapter on
the lien date immediately preceding the date of such certifi-
cation.
   SEC. 6 The heading of Article 3 5 (commencing with Sec-
tion 51255) of Chapter 7 of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of
the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 7. If the amendments to Section 51201 of the Gov-
ernment Code proposed by both this act and Assembly Bill
No. 1178 are enacted, it is the intent of the Legislature that
both amendments be given effect as incorporated in Section
51201 in the form set forth in Section 1 of this act. Therefore,
in the event that Assembly Bill 1178 is enacted and amends
Section 51201, Section 1 of this act shall become operative at
                     1969
Ch. 1474]                   REGULAR SESSION                    3Q25

the same time Section 51201, as amended by Assembly Bill
No. 1178, becomes operative, and at that time, Section 51201
of the Government Code, as amended by Section 2 of this act,
is repealed. In the event Assembly Bill No. 1178 is not enacted
or, if enacted, does not amend Section 51201 of the Government
Code, Section 1 of this act is repealed and Section 2 of this
act shall become operative on the effective date of this act.
   SEC. 8. Section 6 of this act shall only become operative if
Assembly Bill No. 1178 is enacted into law at the 1969 Regular
Session of the Legislature; in which case, Section 6 of this act
shall become operative at the same time as Assembly Bill No.
1178 takes effect.

                        CHAPTER 1474
An act granting and conveying free of trust certain lands now
  in the possession and control of the City and County of San
  Francisco, acting through the Harbor Commission of the
  City and County of San Francisco, declaring such lands
  free of the public trust for purposes of navigation, com-
  merce, and fisheries, and declaring such lands free from any
  possibility of reverter upon breach of condition.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. In accordance with Section 18 of the Burton
Act (Chapter 1333 of the Statutes of 1968), this act amends
and modifies in part the transfer of lends in trust to the City
and County of San Francisco provided for in the Burton Act.
   SEC. 2. The state hereby grants and conveys free of the
public trust for purposes of navigation, commerce, and fisher-
ies, to the City and County of San Francisco all of its right,
title, and interest in and to the lands described as follows,
reserving to the State of California all oil, gas, oil shale, coal,
phosphate, sodium, gold, silver, and all other mineral deposits
contained in the land conveyed, and further reserving to the
State of California and persons authorized by the state, the
right to drill for and extract such deposits of oil and gas, or
gas, and to prospect for, mine, and remove such deposits of
other minerals from the land conveyed, subject to the provi-
sion that the right to drill for and extract such deposits of oil
and gas, or gas, and to prospect for, mine, and remove such
deposits of other minerals, shall not disturb the surface, or the
ground within 100 feet of the surface, of the real property
conveyed:
    (a) Parcel No. 1. Beginning at the point of intersection of
the westerly line of Davis Street and the southerly line of Clay
Street as shown on map entitled "Record of Survey Map of
the Golden Gateway," recorded September 29, 1961, in Book
3026               STATUTES OF CALIFORNTA                 [Q^ I4.J4.

" T " of Maps, at pages 22, 23 and 24, in the office of the
Kecorder of the City and County of San Francisco, State of
California; running thence easterly along said line of Clay
Street 68.75 feet to the easterly line of Davis Street; thence at
a right angle southerly along said line of Davis Street 275 feet
to the northerly line of Sacramento Street; thence at a right
angle westerly along said line of Sacramento Street 68.75 feet
to the westerly line of Davis Street; thence at a right angle
northerly along said line of Davis Street to the point of
beginning.
    (b) Parcel No. 2. Beginning at the point of intersection of
the westerly line of Davis Street and the southerly line of
Broadway as shown on map entitled "Record of Survey Map
of the Golden Gateway," recorded September 29, 1961, in
Book " T " of Maps, at pages 22, 23 and 24 in the office of
the Recorder of the City and County of San Francisco, State
of California; running thence easterly along said line of
Broadway 68.75 feet to the easterly line of Davis Street; thence
at a right angle southerly along said line of Davis Street 275
feet to the northerly line of Pacific Avenue; thence at a right
 angle westerly along said line of Pacific Avenue 68.75 feet to
the westerly line of Davis Street; thence at a right angle
 northerly along said line of Davis Street to the point of begin-
ning.
    The above-described parcels are portions of Davis Street in
 the City and County of San Francisco, as shown on the map
 referred to in this section.
    SEC. 3. The State Director of Finance shall execute and
 deliver to the City and County of San Francisco a deed or
 quitclaim deed of all of the right, title, and interest of the state
 in and to the property described in Section 2, subject to the
 reservation contained in Section 2 of this act. Such deed or
 quitclaim deed shall be sufficient to convey title of such lands
 to the City and County of San Francisco, free of trust.
    SEC. 4. The Legislature hereby finds and declares that the
 lands described in Section 2 of this act have ceased to be tide
 and submerged lands and are therefore free of the public trust
 for navigation, commerce, and fisheries and such lands are
 conveyed to the City and County of San Francisco by the pro-
 visions of this act free of any previously existing public trust
 for the purpose of navigation, commerce, and fisheries.
    SEC. 5. The lands described in Section 2 of this act
 shall be sold at a price equal to the fair market value of the
 state's interest in said lands, which shall be determined by
 agreement between an appraiser representing the State Lands
 Commission and an appraiser representing the City and
 County of San Francisco. In the event the two appraisers are
 unable to agree, they shall agree on a third appraiser who shall
 determine such fair market value. The cost of the appraisals
 shall be borne by the City and County of San Francisco.
                       1969
Ch. 14751                     REGULAR SESSION                     3027

   SEC. 6. The lands described in Section 2 of this act shall
not be subject to reversion to the state by reasons of any
breach by the City and County of San Francisco of any con-
dition imposed by any provision of the Burton Act or of any
other law requiring a reversion to the state upon breach of
condition.
   SEC. 7. The City and County of San Francisco is author-
ized to bring or defend any action to establish its title to the
lands described in Section 2 of this act. Any suit against the
state or against any agency of the state to establish title in the
City and County of San Francisco is authorized and consent
to any such suit is hereby given.
   SEC. 8. Service of summons in any actions or suits with
respect to the sale of lands under Section 6 of this act shall be
made upon the Attorney General and the Attorney General
shall represent the state in any such actions or suits. Cost of
such suits, including reasonable attorneys fees, shall be borne
by the City and County of San Francisco.
   SEC. 9. Any money received by the City and County of
San Francisco from the sale of lands described in Section 2 of
this act shall be used by the Harbor Commission of the City
and County of San Francisco to retire bonded indebtedness
incurred for San Francisco Harbor improvements and for
which the state is primarily liable.


                           CHAPTER 1475
     An act to add Section 14012 to the Government            Code,
                  relating to state property.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1960. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14012 is added to the Government
Code, to read .-
   14012. The director may lease nonoperating right-of-way
areas to municipalities or other local agencies for public pur-
poses, and may contribute toward the cost of developing local
parks and other recreational facilities on such areas. The di-
rector may accept as all or part of the consideration for such
lease or for such state contribution any substantial benefits the
state will derive from the municipality or other local agency's
undertaking maintenance or landscaping costs which would
otherwise be the obligation of the state. Such leases shall con-
tain a provision that whenever the leased land is needed for
state highway operating purposes the lease shall terminate.
The department is authorized to classify portions of state high-
way right-of-way as nonoperating.
3028                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [Qh_ 1476

                         CHAPTEE 1476
An act relating to the establishment and maintenance of re-
  gional centers for mentally retarded persons and their
  families.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 4, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The State Department of Public Health shall
establish and fund from the money appropriated for that pur-
pose by Item 344 of the Budget Act of 1969, three new re-
gional centers for mentally retarded persons and their families
pursuant to Article 7.5 (commencing with Section 415) of
Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Health and Safety
Code.

                         CHAPTER 1477
       An act to amend Section 72602.1 of the Government
             Code, relating to municipal court judges.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 72602.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  72602.1. In addition to the number of judges prescribed
by Section 72602, there shall be two additional judges for the
Long Beach Municipal Court District.


                         CHAPTER 1478
An act to amend Section 32132 of the Health and Safety Code
  and to add Section 23704 to the Revenue and Taxation Code,
  relating to corporation tax exemptions, to take effect im-
  mediately, tax levy.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 32132 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
   32132. The board of directors shall let any contract in-
volving an expenditure of more than three thousand five
hundred dollars ($3,500) for work to be done or for
materials and supplies to be furnished, sold ; or leased
                    1969
Ch. 1478]                  REGULAk SESSION                 3023

to the district, to the lowest responsible bidder who shall
give such security as the board requires, or else reject all
bids; provided, however, that the provisions of this section
shall not apply to medical or surgical equipment or supplies or
to professional services.
   Bids need not be secured for change orders which do not
materially change the scope of the work as set forth in a
contract previously made,- provided, that such contract was
made after compliance with bidding requirements, and such
change orders do not total more than 5 percent of such con-
tract.
   As used in this section, "medical or surgical equipment or
supplies" includes only equipment or supplies commonly, nec-
essarily, and directly used by or under the direction of a
physician and surgeon in caring for or treating a patient in
a hospital.
   Nothing in this section shall prevent any district hospital
from participating as a member of any organization described
in Section 23704 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, nor shall
this section apply to any purchase made or services rendered
by such organization on behalf of a district hospital which is
a member of such organization.
   SEC. 2. Section 23704 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   23704. For purposes of this part, an organization shall be
treated as an organization organized and operated exclusively
for charitable purposes, if:
   (a) Such organization is organized and operated solely:
   (1) To perform, on a centralized basis, one or more of the
following services which, if performed on its own behalf by a
hospital which is an organization described in Section 23701d
and exempt from taxation under Section 23701, would consti-
tute activities in exercising or performing the purpose or func-
tion constituting the basis for its exemption: data processing,
purchasing, warehousing, billing and collection, food, indus-
trial engineering, laboratory, laundry, printing, communica-
tions, record center, and personnel (including selection, test-
ing, training, and education of personnel) services; and
   (2) To perform such services solely for two or more hospi-
tals, and for no other individuals or organizations, each of
which is:
   (A) An organization described in Section 23701d which is
exempt from taxation under Section 23701;
   (B) A constituent part of an organization described in Sec-
tion 23701d which is exempt from taxation under Section 23701
and which, if organized and operated as a separate entity,
would constitute an organization described in Section 23701d;
or
   (C) Owned and operated by the United States, the state,
a county, or a political subdivision, or an agency or instrumen-
tality of any of the foregoing;
3030                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [Gh. 1479

   (b) Such organization is organized and operated on a co-
operative basis and allocates or pays, within 8£ months after
the close of its income year, all net earnings to members on
the basis of services performed for them; and
   (c) If such organization has capital stock, all of such stock
outstanding is owned by its members.
   For purposes of this part, any organization which, by rea-
son of the preceding sentence, is an organization described in
Section 23701d and exempt from taxation under Section 23701,
shall be treated as a hospital and as an organization referred
to in Section 23736(e).
   SEC. 3. This act provides for a tax levy within the mean-
ing of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into imme-
diate effect, however, this act shall be applied in the computa-
tion of taxes on or measured by net income of calendar or
fiscal years ending after December 31, 1968.


                         CHAPTER 1479
An act appropriating funds for increases in compensation for
  psychiatric technicians, and declaring the urgency thereof,
  to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

  I object to the $3,676,633 appropriation in Senate Bill No. 481, and I
hereby reduce said appropriation from $3,676,633 to $1,838,317.
  With this reduction, I approve the bill.
                                           RONALD REAGAN, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund the sum of three million six hundred seventy-six thou-
sand six hundred thirty-three dollars ($3,676,633), to be allo-
cated as provided in Section 2 of this act, and such sums from
other funds as provided in Section 2 of this act, for salary
increases for psychiatric technician classes to be allocated as
provided for in this act.
   SEC. 2. The amount appropriated from the General Fund
by Section 1 of this act shall be used to augment Item 297(a)
of the Budget Act of 1969 for the period July 1. 1969-June 30,
1970. Such amount shall be allocated by the Department of
Finance to the several state offices, departments, boards, bu-
reaus, commissions, and other state agencies, in augmenta-
tion of their respective appropriations for support or for
other purposes, in such amounts as will make sufficient money
available to be paid to psychiatric technician classes, whose
compensation, or portion thereof, is chargeable to the General
Fund, an increase in compensation, including staff benefits, es-
tablished on or after January 1, 1969, by the State Personnel
                       1969
Ch. 1480]                     REGULAR SESSION                       3Q31

Board or other salary-fixing authority, exclusive of the Re-
gents of the University of California and the Trustees of the
California State Colleges as provided in Section 3 of this act.
   For psychiatric technician classes, whose compensation, in-
cluding staff benefits, or portion thereof, is payable from spe-
cial funds or other funds there is hereby appropriated from
each special fund or other funds from which such employees
are paid an amount sufficient to provide increases in compen-
sation, including staff benefits, for each such employee, in
accordance with this section, which amount is to be made avail-
able by executive order of the Director of Finance in augmen-
tation of their respective appropriations for support or for
other purposes.
   Before any increased salary range or rate established for
any position for the period July 1, 1969-June 30, 1970, shall
become effective, a certification shall be obtained from the
Director of Finance that sufficient money either is available
in funds authorized for the agencies or may be made avail-
able from the appropriation in this item, to meet the cost of
sueh increases.
   SEC. 3. The money appropriated by this act shall be used
to raise the salary range of psychiatric technician classes
which have fallen substantially behind compensation for com-
parable work within state service.
   SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article I V of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
   Compensation for psychiatric technician classes has
fallen substantially behind compensation for other classes
within state service who do comparable and often identical
work. Unless there is a prompt and adequate realignment of
the compensation of the psychiatric technician classes, the
principle of "like pay for like work" as set forth in Section
18850 of the Government Code will be violated in its applica-
tion to the psychiatric technician classes, and state service will
suffer serious and irrepareble harm. It is therefore necessary
that this legislation be given immediate effect.


                           CHAPTER 1480
   An act to amend Section 69599.5 of the Government              Code,
                  relating to superior courts.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 69599.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
3032               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQ^ 1 4 8 1

  69599.5. In the County of Santa Barbara there shall be
seven judges of the superior pourt.
  SEC. 2. This act shall become operative July 1,1970.


                        CHAPTER 1481
An act to add Section 20081.1 to the Education Code, relating
                      to junior colleges.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20081.1 is added to the Education
Code, to read:
   20081.1. Notwithstanding Section 20081, the relative dis-
trict ability of a junior college district formed after June 30,
1964, from territory other than that which included a unified
or high school district which maintained a junior college, or a
junior college district, shall be computed according to one of
the following: (1) for a district which became effective for all
purposes between June 30, 1964, and June 30, 1967, by divid-
ing the 1968-1969 assessed valuation of the district by the
 1974-1975 projected resident weekly student contact hours of
the district, or (2) for a district which became effective for
all purposes between July 1, 1967, inclusive, and June 30,
1969, the lesser dividend of the 1968-1969 assessed valuation
of the district divided by the 1975-1976 projected resident
weekly student contact hours of the district, or the projected
resident weekly student contact hours of the district five years
from the semester or quarter during which day classes are first
offered, or (3) for a district which becomes effective for all
purposes after June 30, 1969, by dividing the assessed valua-
tion of the district for the fiscal year prior to the year the
district becomes effective for all purposes by the projected
resident weekly student contact hours of the district five
years from the semester or quarter during which day classes
are first offered.
   Relative district ability shall be computed pursuant to Sec-
tion 20081 for fiscal year 1975-1976 and each year thereafter
for a district which became effective for all purposes between
June 30, 1964, and June 30, 1967, and for the sixth fiscal year
after day classes are first offered and each year thereafter for a
district which became effective for all purposes on July 1,
1967, inclusive and thereafter.
   The projected resident weekly student contact hours for
purposes of this section shall be determined by the Depart-
ment of Finance in cooperation with the Board of Governors
of the California Community Colleges and the junior college
district affected.
                        1969
Ch. 1483]                      REGULAR SESSION                    BOdS

  Expenditures made by a district during the 1969-1970 fiscal
year for projects approved or approvable pursuant to Chapter
19 (commencing with Section 20050) of Division 14 which ex-
ceeds that required for local expenditure for such projects by
the matching ratio established by provisions of this section
shall be allowed as local matching funds for projects ap-
proved for the fiscal years 1970-71 to 1975-1976, inclusive.


                           C H A P T E E 1482
      An act to amend Section 69600 of the Government
           Code, relating to superior court judges.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 69600 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   69600. In the County of Santa Clara there shall be 21
judges of the superior court.


                           CHAPTER 1483
An act to amend Sections 53630, 53649, 53651, 53659, and
  53679 of, to add Sections 53652, 53653, 53654, 53655, 53656,
  53657, 53658, 53660, 53661, 53662, 53663, 53664, 53665,
  53666, 53667, and 53668 to, and to repeal Sections 53655,
  53657, 53660, 53661, 53662, 53665, 53666, 53670, 53671,
  53672, 53673, 53673.5, 53674, 53675 and 53677 of, the Gov-
  ernment Code, relating to deposits of public moneys.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary ol State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 53630 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  53630. As used in this article:
   (a) "Local agency" means county, city, city and county, or
other public agency or corporation.
   (b) " T r e a s u r e r " means treasurer of the local agency.
   (c) "Depository" means a state or national bank in which
the moneys of a local agency are deposited.
   (d) "Agent of depository" means a trust company or trust
department of a state or national bank located in this state,
including the trust department of a depository where au-
thorized.
3034               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Q 1 _ 1483

   (e) " S e c u r i t y " means any of the eligible securities or ob-
ligations listed in Section 53651.
   (f) "Pooled securities" means eligible securities held by an
agent of depository for a depository and securing deposits of
one or more local agencies.
   (g) "Administrator" means the Administrator of Local
Agency Security of the State of California.
   SEC. 2. Section 53649 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   53649. The treasurer is responsible for the safekeeping of
funds in his custody and shall enter into any contract with a
depository which in his judgment is to the public advantage.
One copy of each such contract shall be filed with the auditor,
controller, secretary or corresponding officer of the local
agency. The contract shall:
    (a) Fix the duration of deposits.
    (b) Fix the interest rate, if any.
    (c) Provide conditions for withdrawal and repayment.
    (d) Provide for placement of pooled securities in a named
agent of depository in accordance with Section 53656.
    (e) Grant authority for agent of depository to place securi-
ties for safekeeping in accordance with Section 53658.
    (f) Set forth in accordance with Section 53665 the condi-
tions upon which the administrator shall order pooled securi-
ties converted into money for the benefit of the local agency,
and the procedure therefor.
    (g) Provide for compliance in all respects with the provi-
sions of this article and other applicable provisions of law.
   SEC. 3. Section 53651 of the Government Code is amended
to read :
   53651. Eligible securities are any of the following:
    (a) United States Treasury notes, bonds, bills or certificates
 of indebtedness.
    (b) Notes or bonds or any obligations of a local public
 agency (as defined in the United States Housing Act of 1949)
 or any obligations of a public housing agency (as defined in
 the United States Housing Act of 1937) for which the faith
and credit of the United States are pledged for the payment
 of principal and interest.
    (c) Bonds of this state or of any local agency or district of
 the State of California having the power, without limit as to
 rate or amount, to levy taxes to pay the principal and interest
 of such bonds upon all property within its boundaries subject
 to taxation by such local agency or district, and in addition,
revenue bonds payable solely out of the revenues from a
revenue-producing property owned, controlled or operated by
 such state, local agency or district or by a department, board,
 agency or authority thereof.
    (d) Bonds of any public housing agency (as defined in the
 United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended) as are secured
 by a pledge of annual contributions under an annual contri-
                    19S9
Ch. 14831                  REGULAR SESSION                  3035

bution contract between such public housing agency and the
Public Housing Administration if such contract shall contain
the covenant by the Public Housing Administration which is
authorized by subsection (b) of Section 22 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, as amended, and if the maximum sum
and the maximum period specified in such contract pursuant to
said subsection 22(b) shall not be less than the annual amount
and the period for payment which are requisite to provide for
the payment when due of all installments of principal and
interest on such obligations.
   (e) Registered warrants of this state.
   (f) Bonds, consolidated bonds, collateral trust debentures,
consolidated debentures, or other obligations issued by federal
land banks or federal intermediate credit banks established
under the Federal Farm Loan Act, as amended, debentures
and consolidated debentures issued by the Central Bank for
Cooperatives and banks for cooperatives established under the
Farm Credit Act of 1933, as amended, bonds, or debentures
of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board established under the
Federal Home Loan Bank Act, bonds, debentures and other
obligations of the Federal National Mortgage Association or
of the Government National Mortgage Association established
under the National Housing Act, as amended, and bonds of
any federal home loan bank established under said act.
   (g) Notes, tax anticipation warrants or other evidence of
indebtedness issued pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with
Section 53820), Article 7.5 (commencing with Section 53840)
or Article 7.6 (commencing with Section 53850) of this
Chapter 4.
   SEC. 4. Section 53652 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   53652. To secure active or inactive deposits the depository
shall at all times maintain with the agent of depository pursu-
ant to Sections 53656 and 53658 securities having a market
value of at least 10 percent in excess of the total amount of all
deposits of that depository secured by the pooled securities re-
ferred to in said sections.
   SEC. 5. Section 53653 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   53653. When in his discretion local conditions so warrant,
the treasurer may waive security for such portion of any de-
posits as is insured pursuant to federal law, notwithstanding
this article.
   SEC. 6. Section 53654 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   53654. (a) The depository may add securities to the pool
or substitute securities of equal value for those in the pool at
any time.
   (b) Withdrawal of securities from the pool without replace-
ment at equal value may be ordered only by bonded officers or
employees of the depository who have satisfied such require-
3036               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQh. 1483

ments as may he set by the administrator. The agent of deposi-
tory is responsible for the safekeeping and disbursement of
securities placed in its custody by a depository. I t shall release
securities only upon presentation by the depository of the most
reasonably current statement of the total deposits subject
to this article held by the depository, such statement to be
verified and countersigned by two bonded officers, other than
those who may have ordered the withdrawal of securities.
A copy of this statement shall be forwarded to the administra-
tor concurrently by the depository.
   SEO. 7. Section 53655 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 53655 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   53655. A placement of securities by a depository with an
agent of depository pursuant to this article shall have the
effect of perfecting a security interest in those securities in the
local agencies having deposits in that depository notwithstand-
ing provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code to the contrary
and notwithstanding that the agent of depository may be the
trust department of the depository.
   SEC. 9. Section 53656 is added to the Government Code, to
read:
   53656. At the time the treasurer enters into a contract
with the depository pursuant to Section 53649, he shall au-
thorize the agent of depository designated by the depository,
but including the trust department of the depository only
when acceptable to both the treasurer and the depository, to
hold securities of the depository in accordance with this article
to secure the deposit of the local agency. Said securities are
subject to order of the depository in accordance with Section
53654 except when the provisions of Section 53665 are in effect.
   SEO. 10. Section 53657 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEO. 11. Section 53657 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   53657. Each trust company or trust department intending
to act as an agent of depository shall file with the administra-
tor, on a form to be provided by the Administrator, an agree-
ment to comply in all respects with the provisions of this
article. Only those trust companies and trust departments filing
such agreements shall be authorized by treasurers in accord-
ance with Section 53656 to act as agents of depository.
   SEC. 12. Section 53658 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   53658. An agent of a depository may hold and pool securi-
ties to secure deposits for one or more depositories pursuant
to Section 53655, but shall maintain a separate pool for each
said depository. Bach local agency shall have an undivided
security interest in the pooled securities in the proportion
that the amount of its deposits bears to the total amount of
deposits secured by the pooled securities.
                    1969
Ch. 1483]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3Q37

   SEC. 13. Section 53659 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   53659. Whenever an agent of depository accepts securities
pursuant to Section 53656 it may, with the authorization of the
depository, place such securities for safekeeping with a federal
reserve bank or branch thereof or with any bank located in
 a city designated as a reserve city by the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System. Authority for such placement
together with the names of the banks to be so used, shall be
contained in the contract between the treasurer and the deposi-
tory required in Section 53649.
   SEC. 14. Section 53660 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 15. Section 53660 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   53660. When deposits of a local agency are secured by
pooled securities pursuant to Section 53656, the agent of de-
pository shall furnish to the treasurer upon request :
   (a) A quarterly certification that there are securities in the
pool having a market value at least 10 percent in excess of all
deposits reported by the depository which are secured by such
pool and a certified report of the individual securities then
on deposit in the pool with the location and total market value
thereof and the total deposits then reported by the depository
to be secured by the pool. This may be a copy of the report
required in Section 53661(e).
   (b) A monthly report of the individual securities in the
pool and the location thereof except when such report is con-
tained in the certified quarterly report required in subsection
 (a) of this section.
   SEC. 16. Section 53661 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 17. Section 53661 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   53661. The Superintendent of Banks shall act as Adminis-
trator of Local Agency Security and shall be responsible for
the administration of this article. He shall:
   (a) Issue such rules and regulations consistent with law
and impose appropriate sanctions for noncompliance there-
with as he may deem necessary or advisable in executing the
powers, duties and responsibilities assigned by this article.
    (b) Require compliance in all respects with the provisions
of this article and impose sanctions for noncompliance there-
with.
    (c) Require from every depository a report verified by the
agent of depository listing all securities, and the market value
thereof, which are securing local agency deposits together with
the total deposits then secured by the pool, such report to
confirm compliance with Section 53652. Such reports may be
required whenever deemed necessary by the administrator,
but shall be required at least four times each year at the times
designated by the Comptroller of the Currency for reports
from national banking associations.
3038              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                m}1- J4g3

   (d) Verify pooled securities reported to be held by an
agent of a depository at such times as he deems necessary.
   (e) Have access to reports of examination made by the
Comptroller of the Currency insofar as they relate to the trust
departments of national banking associations.
    (f) Determine when any security listed in Section 53651 is
not qualified to secure public deposits and to require in such
ease that an additional security be substituted immediately in
the pooled securities if necessary to comply with Section
53652. Failure to comply with such requirement shall be re-
ported by the administrator promptly to those treasurers
having money on deposit in that depository and, in addition,
when that depository is a national bank, shall be reported to
the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States.
    (g) Require from each treasurer at appropriate times a
statement of the amount and location of each deposit together
with such other information deemed necessary by the admin-
istrator for effective operation of this article. The facts recited
in any statement from a treasurer to the administrator are
conclusively presumed to be true for the single purpose of the
administrator fulfilling responsibilities assigned to him by this
article and for no other purpose.
    SEC. 18. Section 53662 of the Government Code is re-
 pealed.
    SEC. 19. Section 53662 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
    53662. If the treasurer of a local agency deems a security
 not to be qualified to secure public deposits, he may notify the
 administrator, who shall take such action as he deems neces-
 sary and notify the treasurer thereof.
    SEC. 20. Section 53663 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
    53663. Each depository shall report in writing to the ad-
 ministrator :
     (a) Within two business days after any withdrawal, sub-
 stitution or addition of pooled securities and shall state the
 name and market value of the securities withdrawn, substi-
 tuted or added together with the total deposits then secured
 by the pool. This information shall be available from the ad-
 ministrator to the treasurer upon request.
     (b) Weekly, giving the total amount of all deposits held by
 such depository pursuant to this article if no report has been
 made under subsection (a) of this section during the previous
 week.
     SEC. 21. Section 53664 is added to the Government Code,
 to read:
     53664. The individual reports specified in Sections 53654,
  53660, 53661, 53662 and 53663 are not public documents and
 are not open to inspection by the public.
     SEC. 22. Section 53665 of the Government Code is re-
  pealed.
                    1969
Ch. 1483]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3339

   SEC. 23. Section 53665 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   53665. If a depository fails to pay all or part of the de-
posits of a local agency secured by pooled securities in accord-
ance with the contract provided for in Section 53649, and on
demand of its treasurer or other authorized official, the treas-
urer shall notify the administrator in writing who then shall
require by written instruction the agent of depository holding
the pooled securities to convert into money such portion of the
pooled securities as may be necessary to produce an amount
equal to the deposits of the local agency plus any accrued in-
terest or costs due and to pay such amount to the treasurer in
satisfaction of such deposits. Any moneys resulting from such
conversion in excess of the amount of such deposits plus any
accrued interest or costs due shall be retained by the agent of
depository as part of the trust pool until the depository sub-
stitutes for such excess moneys securities having a market
value sufficient to bring the total of pooled securities up to the
amount required by Section 53652.
   SEC. 24. Section 53666 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 25. Section 53666 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   53666. The only liability that shall attach to the admin-
istrator as the result of the operation of this article is that
which would attach as a result of other laws of this state.
   SEC. 26. Section 53667 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   53667. Expenses incurred by the administrator in carrying
out the duties and responsibilties assigned to him by this arti-
cle, shall be borne pro rata on an annual basis by each deposi-
tory accepting local agency deposits. The basis of the appor-
tionment of such expenses shall be the proportion that the
average amount of local agency deposits held by the depository
bears to the average total amount of deposits held by all de-
positories in the state as shown by the reports of depositories
to the administrator required in Section 53663(c). On or be-
fore the last day of each fiscal year the administrator shall
notify each depository by mail of the amount levied against
it. The depository shall pay the amount levied within 20 days
after such notice. If payment is not made to the administrator
within such time, the administrator shall assess and collect, in
addition to the annual assessment, a penalty of 5 percent of
the assessment for each month or part thereof that the payment
is delinquent.
   SEC. 27. Section 53668 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    53668. Each depository shall render quarterly to the treas-
urer a statement in triplicate showing the daily balances or
 amount of money of the local agency held during the quarter

    96—1954
3040              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ ( ^ ]^4g3

and the amount of accrued interest thereon separately. One
copy shall be filed by the treasurer with the auditor, controller,
secretary, or corresponding officer of the local agency.
   SEC. 28. Section 53670 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 29. Section 53671 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 30. Section 53672 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 31. Section 53673 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 32. Section 53673.5 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 33. Section 53674 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 34. Section 53675 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 35. Section 53677 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 36. Section 53679 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   53679. So far as possible all money belonging to a local
agency under the control of any of its officers or employees
other than the treasurer or a judge or officer of a justice or
municipal court shall, and all money coming into the posses-
sion of a judge or officer of a justice or municipal court may,
be deposited as active deposits in the state or national bank
in this state selected by the officer, employee, or judge of the
court. Such money is subject to this article except:
   (a) Security is not required for deposits pursuant to this
section which are insured under any federal law, nor is a
written contract in accordance with Section 53649 required.
   For deposits in excess of the amount insured under any
federal law a contract in accordance with Section 53649 is
required and the provisions of this article shall apply.
    (b) Interest is not required on money deposited by a judge
or officer of a justice or municipal court.
    (c) Interest is not required on money deposited by an of-
ficer having control of a revolving fund created pursuant to
Chapter 2, Division 3, Title 3.
   (d) Interest is not required on money deposited by an of-
ficer having control of a special fund established pursuant
to Articles 5 or 6, Chapter 2, Division 3, Title 3.
   SEC. 37. This act shall become operative July 1, 1970.
   SEC. 38. Notwithstanding the fact that the provisions of
this act become operative on July 1, 1970, the administrator
may make such preliminary actions with respect to planning
 and staffing of the office of the Administrator of Local Agency
 Security as are necessary to prepare for immediate operation
of the office on July 1, 1970, prior to July 1, 1970.
   To provide funds for planning and staffing prior to July 1,
 1970, the administrator shall collect from each bank intending
to act as a depository under this article, in no more than three
installments, a registration fee up to a maximum of one dollar
 ($1) for each twenty-seven thousand five hundred dollars
 ($27,500) of local agency deposits held by such bank during
fiscal year 1969.
                        1969
Ch. 1485]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3041

   Notwithstanding Section 37 of this act, the provisions of
this section shall become operative at the same time as statutes
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature become
effective.

                           CHAPTER 1484
    An act to add Section 897 to the Military and Veterans
              Code, relating to veterans' benefits.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 897 is added to the Military and
Veterans Code, to read:
   897. Notwithstanding any other statute or section of this
code, the department shall grant for postgraduate college
study, the collegiate benefits authorized by this article, to any
person who is a child of a veteran who was killed in action in
World War II on or after December 7, 1941, and prior to Jan-
uary 1, 1947, if such person is enrolled on the effective date of
this section in postgraduate study in a university or college in
this state, speaks and writes at least two Chinese dialects, and
has not attained the age of 32 by December 1, 1969.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds that there is a pressing need
in the University of California and the state colleges for teach-
ers of the various Chinese dialects and related subjects. It is the
intent and purpose of the Legislature in enacting by this act,
Section 897 of the Military and Veterans Code, to assist in
meeting such need by affording veterans' educational benefits
to persons of a class who are children of deceased veterans and
who have the needed Chinese language skills.


                           CHAPTER 1485
      An act to amend Section 69591 of the Government
               Code, relating to superior courts.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69591 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   69591. In the County of Orange there shall be 22 judges
of the superior court.
3042               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Qfa I486

                        CHAPTER 1486
       An act to amend Section 69580 of the Government
                   Code, relating to judges.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION" 1. Section 69580 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  69580. In the County of Alameda there shall be 23 judges
of the superior court.

                        CHAPTER 1487
An act to amend Section 69104 of the Government Code,
  relating to judges, and making an appropriation therefor.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 69104 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  69104. The Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate
District consists of two divisions. One division shall hold its
regular sessions at San Diego and shall have four judges and
the other shall hold its regular sessions at San Bernardino and
shall have five judges.
   SEC. 2. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund for additional support of the Court of Appeal, Fourth
Appellate District, the sum of two hundred forty-two thousand
dollars ($242,000).

                        CHAPTER 1488
  An act authorizing the Department of General Services to
          dispose of property belonging to the state.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The Director of General Services is hereby au-
thorized to quitclaim to the City of Gait, County of Sacra-
mento, State of California, at no cost to the city, approxi-
mately 48 acres of land situated in Sacramento County within
the city limits of Gait, California, being the former location
of the Sacramento County Fairgrounds, upon condition the
                        1969
Ch. 1489]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3043

land shall be substantially used for recreational or park pur-
poses and shall revert to the 52nd District Agricultural As-
sociation in the event of any breach of such conditions, which
condition shall be set forth in the quitclaim deed.


                           C H A P T E E 1489
An act to add Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 7260) to
  Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, to amend
  Section 33415 of the Health and Safety Code, to add Article
  6 (commencing with Section 600) to Chapter 3 of Part 1 of
  Division 1 of the Public Utilities Code, and to add Section
  158.1 to the Streets and Highways Code, relating to property
  acquisitions by public entities and public utilities, and de-
  claring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 7260)
is added to Division 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, to
read:
               CHAPTER 16.       EELOCATION ASSISTANCE

   7260. As used in this chapter:
   (a) "Public entity" includes the state, the Eegents of the
University of California, a county, city, city and county, dis-
trict, public authority, public agency, and any other political
subdivision or public corporation in the state when acquiring
real property or any interest therein, in a county having a
population of more than four million persons, for public use,
except the Department of Public Works of this state.
   (b) "Displaced person" means any individual, family, busi-
ness, or farm operation, which moves from real property ac-
quired by a public entity for public use.
   (c) " I n d i v i d u a l " means a person who is not a member of a
family.
   (d) " F a m i l y " means two or more persons living together
in the same dwelling unit who are related to each other by
blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship.
   (e) "Business" means any lawful activity conducted pri-
marily for purchase and resale, manufacture, processing or
marketing of products, commodities, or other personal prop-
erty ; or for the sale of services to the public; or by a nonprofit
corporation.
   (f) " F a r m operation" means any activity conducted pri-
marily for the production of one or more agricultural products
or commodities for sale and home use, and customarily pro-
ducing such products or commodities in sufficient quantity to
be capable of contributing materially to the operator's support.
3044               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [CJj. 1489

   (g) "Affected property" means any real property which
actually declines in fair market value because of acquisition
by a public entity for public use of other real property and a
change in the use of the real property acquired by the public
entity.
   (h) "Public u s e " means a use for which real property may
be acquired by eminent domain.
   7261. (a) A public entity is authorized to give relocation
advisory assistance to any individual, family, business, or farm
operation displaced because of the acquisition of real property
by that public entity for public use.
   (b) In giving such assistance, the public entity may estab-
lish local relocation advisory assistance offices to assist in ob-
taining replacement facilities for individuals, families, and
businesses which it is necessary to relocate because of the ac-
quisition of real property by the public entity.
   7262. (a) As a part of the cost of acquisition of real prop-
erty for a public use, a public entity may compensate a dis-
placed person for his actual and reasonable expense in moving
himself, family, business, or farm operation, including moving
personal property.
   (b) Any displaced person who moves from a dwelling who
elects to accept payments authorized by this subdivision in lieu
of the payments authorized by subdivision (a) of this section
may receive a moving expense allowance, determined accord-
ing to a schedule established by the public entity, not to exceed
two hundred dollars ($200), and in addition a dislocation al-
lowance of one hundred dollars ($100).
   (c) Any displaced person who moves or discontinues his
business or farm operation who elects to accept the payment
authorized by this subdivision in lieu of the payment au-
thorized by subdivision (a) of this section, may receive a fixed
relocation payment in an amount equal to the average annual
net earnings of the business or farm operation, or five thousand
dollars ($5,000), whichever is less. In the case of a business, no
payment shall be made under this subdivision unless the public
entity is satisfied that the business cannot be relocated without
a substantial loss of patronage, and is not a part of a com-
mercial enterprise having at least one other establishment, not
being acquired, which is engaged in the same or similar busi-
ness. For purposes of this subdivision, the term "average an-
nual net earnings" means one-half of any net earnings of the
business, or farm operation, before federal, state, and local
income taxes, during the two taxable years immediately pre-
ceding the taxable year in which such business or farm opera-
tion moves from the real property being acquired, and includes
any compensation paid by the business or farm operation to
the owner, his spouse, or his dependents during such two-year
period. To be eligible for the payment authorized by this sub-
division, the business or farm operation shall make available
                     1969
Ch. 14891                   REGULAR SESSION                  3045

its state income tax records and its financial statements and
accounting records, for audit for confidential use to determine
the payment authorized by this subdivision.
    7263. (a) In addition to the payments authorized by Sec-
tion 7261, the public entity, as a part of the cost of construc-
tion, may make a payment to the owner of real property
acquired for public use which is improved with a single- or
two- or three-family dwelling actually owned and occupied by
the owner for not less than one year prior to the first written
offer for the acquisition of such property.
    (b) Such payment, not to exceed five thousand dollars
 ($5,000), shall be the amount, if any, which, when added to the
acquisition payment, equals the average price required for a
comparable dwelling determined, in accordance with standards
established by the public entity, to be a decent, safe and sani-
tary dwelling adequate to accommodate the displaced owner,
reasonably accessible to public services and the condemnee's
place of employment, and available on the market.
    (c) Such payment shall be made only to a displaced owner
who purchases and occupies a dwelling that meets standards
established by the public entity within one year subsequent to
the date on which he is required to move from the dwelling
acquired by the public entity.
    7264. (a) In addition to the payment authorized by Sec-
tion 7261, as a part of the cost of acquisition, the public entity
may make a payment to any individual or family displaced
from any dwelling not eligible to receive a payment under
Section 7263 which was actually and lawfully occupied by such
individual or family for not less than 90 days prior to the first
written offer from the public entity for the acquisition of such
property.
    (b) Such payment, not to exceed one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500), shall be the additional amount which is neces-
sary to enable such individual or family to lease or rent for a
period not to exceed two years, or to make the downpayment
on the purchase of, a decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling of
standards adequate to accommodate such individual or family
in areas not generally less desirable in regard to public utilities
and public and commercial facilities.
    7265. (a) In addition to the payment authorized by Sec-
tion 7261, as a cost of acquisition, the public entity may make
a payment to any affected property owner meeting the require-
ments of this section.
     (b) Such affected property is immediately contiguous to
 property acquired for a public use and the owner shall have
owned the property affected by acquisition by the public entity
 not less than one year prior to the first written offer for acqui-
 sition of the acquired property.
    (c) Such payment, not to exceed five thousand dollars
 ($5,000), shall be the amount, if any, which equals the actual
 decline in the fair market value of the property of the affected
 property owner caused by the acquisition by the public entity
3046              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQJ^ 1 4 8 9

for public use of other real property and a change in the use
of such property.
   (d) The amount, if any, of actual decline in fair market
value of affected property shall be determined according to
rules and regulations adopted by the public entity pursuant
to this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall limit payment
under this section only to such circumstances in which the de-
cline in fair market value of affected property is reasonably
related to objective physical change in the use of acquired
property.
   7266. Any person aggrieved by a determination as to eligi-
bility for a payment authorized by this chapter, or the amount
of a payment, may have his application reviewed by the public
entity, and the decision of the public entity shall be final.
   7267. Payments under the provisions of this chapter shall
be made to eligible persons in accordance with such rules and
regulations as shall be adopted by the State Board of Control
for property acquisitions by a state agency, or the governing
body of any other public entity, for property acquisitions by
such entity. Payments made in relation to property acquisition
for roads and streets by public entities other than the state
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Article 3.5
 (commencing with Section 156) of Chapter 1 of Division 1 of
the Streets and Highways Code and such rules and regulations
as shall be adopted by the State Department of Public "Works.
   7268. The State Board of Control is authorized to adopt
rules and regulations to implement payments under this chap-
ter by state agencies. The governing bodies of other public
entities are authorized to adopt rules and regulations to imple-
ment payments under this chapter by such entities.
   7269. No payment received by any person under this chap-
ter shall be considered as income for the purposes of the Per-
sonal Income Tax Law, P a r t 10 (commencing with Section
17001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or
the Bank and Corporation Tax Law, Part 11 (commencing
with Section 23001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, nor shall such payments be considered as income or re-
sources to any recipient of public assistance and such payments
shall not be deducted from the amount of aid to which the
recipient would otherwise be entitled under P a r t 3 (commenc-
ing with Section 11000) of Division 9 of the Welfare and Insti-
tutions Code.
   7270. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed
as creating in any condemnation proceedings brought under
the power of eminent domain any element of damages not in
existence on the date of enactment of this chapter.
   7271. If any provision of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid pro-
vision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are severable.
                      1969
Ch. 14891                    REGULAR SESSION                    3047

   7272. The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to the
provision by a public entity of relocation assistance to any in-
dividual, family, business, or farm operation located in a
county having a population of more than four million persons.
   SEC. 2. Section 33415 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   33415. (a) An agency may make relocation payments to
or with respect to persons (including families, business con-
cerns, and others) displaced by a redevelopment project, for
moving expenses and losses of property for which reimburse-
ment or compensation is otherwise made, including the making
of such payments financed by the federal government.
   (b) An agency in a county having a population of more than
four million persons may make any of the payments author-
ized by Chapter 16 (commencing with Section 7260) of Divi-
sion 7 of Title 1 of the Government Code, including the
making of such payments financed by the federal government.
   SEC. 3. Article 6 (commencing with Section 600) is added
to Chapter 3 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Public Utilities
Code, to read:

                Article 6.    Relocation Assistance
   600. A public utility acquiring real property in a county
having a population of more than four million persons by emi-
nent domain is authorized to give relocation advisory assistance
and to make any of the payments authorized by Chapter 16
(commencing with Section 7260) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the
Government Code. For the purposes of this section, a public
utility shall be considered to be a "public e n t i t y " other than a
state agency, as defined by Section 7260 of the Government
Code.
   SEC. 4. Section 158.1 is added to the Streets and High-
ways Code, to read:
   158.1. In addition to the payment authorized by Section
157, as a part of the cost of construction the department may,
if federal funds are available for reimbursement, make a pay-
ment to any individual, family, business or farm operation
pursuant to the provisions of Section 7265 of the Government
Code, in accordance with such rules and regulations as the
department shall adopt relating to such payments.
   SEC. 5. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
   Owners of property subject to eminent domain will delay
settlement of the acquisition of their property until this act
becomes operative so as to take advantage of the relocation
assistance it provides. In order to reduce this delay in property
acquisition to a minimum, it is necessary that this act become
operative immediately.
3048              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   TQ^. 1 4 9 0

                        CHAPTER 1490
An act to amend Sections 69595, 72602, 74001, and 74191 of,
  and to add Section 73075.6 to, the Government Code, re-
  lating to courts.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION- 1. Section 69595 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   69595. In the County of San Diego there shall be 25 judges
of the superior court.
   SEC. 2. Section 72602 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   72602. Each of the Los Angeles County municipal courts
established in judicial districts shall have the number of judges
set out below opposite the name of the judicial district over
which such court has jurisdiction:

  Whittier Municipal Court District                               3
  San Antonio Municipal Court District                            3
  East Los Angeles Municipal Court District                       3
  Inglewood Municipal Court District                              2
  South Bay Municipal Court District                              3
  Compton Municipal Court District                                3
  Downey Municipal Court District                                 2
  Los Angeles Municipal Court District                           49
  Santa Anita Municipal Court District                            1
  Alhambra Municipal Court District                               3
  Los Cerritos Municipal Court District                           2
  Long Beach Municipal Court District                             5
  Beverly Hills Municipal Court District                          3
  Santa Monica Municipal Court District                           3
  Burbank Municipal Court District                                2
  Glendale Municipal Court District                               2
  Pasadena Municipal Court District                               4
  El Monte Municipal Court District                               3
  Pomona Municipal Court District                                 3
  South Gate Municipal Court District                             1
  Citrus Judicial District                                        4
  Antelope Municipal Court District                               1
  Culver Municipal Court District                                 1

   SEC. 3. Section 73075.6 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   73075.6. There shall be one additional judge in the San
Leandro-Hayward Judicial District.
   SEC. 4. Section 74001 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
                        1969
Ch. 1491]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3049

   74001. There shall be the following number of judges: in
the North Orange County Municipal Court, eight; in the Cen-
tral Orange County Municipal Court, seven, and on and after
May 1, 1970, there shall be eight; in the West Orange County
Municipal Court, five, and on and after July 1, 1969, there
shall be six; in the Orange County Harbor Municipal Court,
three; and in the South Orange County Municipal Court, two.
   SEC. 5. Section 74191 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   74191. There shall be 10 judges. The judges of courts
superseded by consolidation of municipal court districts shall
automatically succeed to judgeships of the consolidated district.


                           CHAPTER 1491
An act to amend Sections 69582, 70047, 70056, 73341, 73342,
  73347, 73351, and 73351.1 of the Government Code, relating
  to courts.
            CApproved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 69582 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   69582. In the County of Contra Costa there shall be 10
judges of the superior court.
   SEC. 2. Section 70047 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   70047. In a county with a population of over 395,000 and
under 420,000, as determined on the basis of the 1960 federal
census, each regular official reporter shall be paid an annual
salary of fourteen thousand forty dollars ($14,040), and each
pro tempore official reporter shall be paid fifty dollars ($50)
a day for the days he actually is on duty under order of the
court.
   During the hours which the court is open for the transaction
 of the judicial business, the regular official reporter shall per-
 form the duties required by law. "When not engaged in the
performance of any other duty imposed upon him by law, he
shall render stenographic or clerical assistance to the judge of
 the court to which he is assigned as such judge may direct.
   SEC. 3. Section 70056 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   70056. In a county with a population of over 295,000 and
under 500,000, the fee required by Section 70053 shall be
eleven dollars ($11).
   SEC. 4. Section 73341 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73341. Except as otherwise provided in this article, each
municipal court district established in Contra Costa County
3050               STATUTES OF CAUFORNIA                [Qfo^ 1 4 9 ^

shall have the number of judges set forth opposite the name
of the judicial district over which such court has jurisdiction.

  Mt. Diablo Judicial District                                  2
  Richmond Judicial District                                    3
  River Judicial District                                       1
  San Pablo Judicial District                                   1
  Walnut Creek-Danville Judicial District                       2
  Any other court established or declared to exist              1

   SEC. 5. Section 73342 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73342. Official reporters shall be appointed by the judges of
 each municipal court district pursuant to the provisions of
 Section 72194 and shall serve at the pleasure of the judges.
   In lieu of any other compensation provided by law for their
services in reporting testimony and proceedings in such court,
 they shall receive a salary of fourteen thousand forty dollars
 ($14,040) a year, which shall be a charge against the general
fund of the county.
   SEC. 6. Section 73347 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73347. In any civil action or proceeding, in addition to the
fees required by Article 2 (commencing with Section 72050)
 of Chapter 8 of Title 8, a fee of eleven dollars ($11) shall be
 paid to the clerk of the court by each party or jointly by
parties appearing jointly, once only in any such action or
proceeding, in the following instances:
    (a) Upon the filing of a complaint or other first paper.
   (b) Upon the filing of the answer or other first paper on
behalf of any party (or parties appearing jointly) other than
the plaintiff.
   (c) Upon the filing of papers transmitted from one court
on the transfer of a civil action or special proceeding. The fees
so required shall be taxed as costs in favor of the party paying
the same and to whom costs are awarded by the judgment of
the court. All fees collected under the provisions of this section
shall be transmitted to the county treasurer in the same man-
ner as fees collected under Article 2 of Chapter 8 of Title 8.
   SEC. 7. Section 73351 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   73351. The following salary schedule shall apply to all
persons employed by municipal courts in Contra Costa
County:
                         Salary Schedule
Range No.                      1       2       3       4        5
  20                          $376    $395   $415    $436     $458
  21                           385     405    425     447       469
  22                           395     415    436     458       481
  23                           405     425    447     469       493
  24                           415     436    458     481       505
1969 BEGtTLAR SESSION                   3051

         1      2         3       4       5
        425     447       469     493     517
        436     458       481     505     530
        447     469       493     517     543
        458     481       505     530     556
        469     493       517     543     570
        481     505       530     556     584
        493     517       543     570     598
    —   505     530       556     584     613
        517     543       570     598     628
        530     556       584     613     644
        543     570       598     628     660
        556     584       613     644     676
        570     598       628     660     693
        584     613       644     676     710
        598     628       660     693     727
        613     644       676     710     745
        628     660       693     727     763
        644     676       710     745     782
        660     693       727     763     801
        676     710       745     782     821
        693     727       763     801     841
        710     745       782     821     862
        727     763       801     841     883
        745     782       821     862     905
        763     801       841     883     927
        782     821       862     905     950
        801     841       883     927     973
        821     862       905     950     997
        841     883       927     973   1,022
        862     905       950     997   1,047
        883     927       973   1,022   1,073
        905     950       997   1,047   1,099
        927     973     1,022           1,126
                                1,073
        950     997     1,047   1,099   1,154
        973   1,022     1,073   1,126   1,183
        997
              1,047     1,099   1,154   1,212
      1,022
      1,047   1,073     1,126   1,183   1,242
      1,073   1,099     1,154   1,212   1,273
      1,099   1,126     1,183   1,242   1,305
      1,126   1,154     1,212   1,273   1,337
      1,154   1,183     1,242   1,305   1,370
      1,183   1,212     1,273   1,337   1,404
      1,212   1,242     1,305   1,370   1,439
      1,242   1,273     1,337   1,404   1,474
      1,273   1,305     1,370   1,439   1,511
      1,305   1,337     1,404   1,474   1,548
      1,337   1,370     1,439   1,511   1,586
      1,370   1,404     1,474   1.548   1,625
      1,404   1,439     1,511   1,586   1,665
              1,474     1,548   1,625   1,706
3052              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   tQfa 1492

   The above salary schedule is the same schedule utilized for
employees of Contra Costa County.
   Should the board of supervisors adopt a revised salary
schedule for county employees the new schedule shall apply
equally to municipal courts and marshals' offices and con-
version to the new schedule shall be effected for employees
of the municipal courts or marshals' offices in the same manner
and on the same date as for county employees, but all such
adjustments shall be effective only until the 61st day after
adjournment of the next regular session of the Legislature.
   SEC. 8. Section 73351.1 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   73351.1. Classes of positions provided in Section 73351 are
allocated to the salary schedule as follows:

  (a) Deputy clerk I                                       Range 23
  (b) Deputy clerk I I                                     Range 27
  (c) Deputy clerk I I I                                   Eange 35
  (d) Deputy clerk IV                                      Range 45
  (e) Clerk of court I                                     Range 54
  (f) Clerk of court I I                                   Range 59
  (g) Deputy marshal I                                     Range 46
  (h) Deputy marshal I I                                   Range 50
  (i) Marshal I                                            Range 60
  (j) Marshal I I                                          Range 64


                        CHAPTER 1492
    An act to amend Section 23754.3 of the Education           Code,
            relating to the California State Colleges.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary oi State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 23754.3 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   23754.3. The trustees shall have the power, on the basis of
demonstrated financial need and scholastic achievement, to
waive entirely, or to reduce below the rate, or the minimum
rate, fixed by Section 23754, the tuition fee of a nonresident
student or a nonresident student who is a citizen and resident
of a foreign country who is a graduate student of exceptional
scholastic ability and prior scholastic achievement who, while
not employed full time by a state college, is employed 20
hours or more a week by a state college or is enrolled in a
course of study of not less than 10 semester or quarter units.
   The number of reductions and waivers granted by the
trustees under this section shall at no time exceed twenty-five
                        1969
Ch. 1493]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3Q53

percent (25%) of the nonresident graduate students, includ-
ing nonresident graduate students who are citizens and resi-
dents of a foreign country, then enrolled in the California
State Colleges.

                           CHAPTER 1493
An act to add Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 32001) to
  Division 22 of the Education Code, relating to innovative
  schools.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6. 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 32001) is
added to Division 22 of the Education Code, to read:

                 CHAPTER 6.      INNOVATIVE SCHOOLS

                   Article 1.    General Provisions
   32001. It is the intent of the Legislature to establish Cali-
fornia innovative schools throughout the state to be adminis-
tered by a public commission. The Legislature believes that
the improvement of educational programs demands an orga-
nized and concerted effort in educational experimentation and
research to:
   (a) Identify both the exemplary school programs which
lead to pupil success in school and the programs that fail
to produce success.
   (b) Examine the effectiveness of various instructional pro-
grams.
   (c) Conduct research and experimentation on a clinical
basis to seek improved methods of instruction.
   (d) Measure the potential for self-sustained learning among
pupils of varying aptitudes and characteristics.
   (e) Discover ways to improve instruction in reading and
mathematics.

        Article 2.       Educational Research Commission
  32011. There is in the state government the Educational
Research Commission consisting of two members appointed by
the Senate Committee on Rules, two members appointed by
the Speaker of the Assembly and five members appointed by
the State Board of Education. The members appointed by the
Senate Committee on Rules and by the Speaker of the Assem-
bly shall not be Members of the Legislature. One of the five
members appointed by the state board shall be an elementary
school teacher and one shall be a secondary school teacher.
The nine members of the Educational Research Commission
3054              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA              TQJ^ 1 4 9 3

shall be selected for their familiarity, standing, competence
and attainment in research methods applicable to the physi-
cal, behavioral, and management sciences. The members ap-
pointed by the Senate Committee on Rules and the Speaker
of the Assembly shall serve at the discretion of the appoint-
ing power. The remaining five members shall serve for four-
year terms, except those first appointed shall determine by
lot which member shall serve for one year; which member
shall serve for two years; which member shall serve for three
years; and which two members shall serve for four years.
   32012. As used in this chapter, "commission" means the
Educational Research Commission.
   32013. Members of the commission shall serve without
compensation, except that they shall receive their actual neces-
sary traveling expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   32014. The commission shall have the power and authority
to:
    (a) Employ a staff for the commission and for the innova-
tive schools.
    (b) Establish and operate the innovative schools.
    (c) Acquire property and equipment to which it shall hold
title.
    (d) Receive and expend funds to support the commission
and the innovative schools.
    (e) Determine the location of the innovative schools.
    (f) Determine the program of instruction and the programs
of research and experimentation to be undertaken by the inno-
vative schools.
    (g) Contract with other governmental agencies and private
persons or organizations to provide or receive services, sup-
plies, facilities and equipment.
    (h) Adopt rules and regulations for its own government
and for the government of the innovative schools.
        Article 3. Establishment and Administration
                   of Innovative Schools
   32025. The commission shall prescribe criteria for the de-
velopment of staff in each innovative school. The commission
shall advertise the employment opportunities with the innova-
tive schools and the commission, and establish appropriate
employment selection procedures in which performance of the
teacher in the classroom, subject matter proficiency, and theo-
retical knowledge is considered.
   32028. Appointment to a teaching position in the innova-
tive schools shall be limited to two years and renewable for
another two years. Appointments to administrative positions
shall be limited to four years and renewable for another two
years.
   32029. Persons employed to teach in and administer the
innovative schools shall be deemed to be on leave of absence
                    1969
Ch. 1493]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3055

from the school district whose employment they leave to ac-
cept employment in the innovative school, and shall retain
permanent status, or credit for service toward permanent
status, in such school district during their employment with
the innovative schools. Such persons shall continue to be mem-
bers of, and contribute to, the retirement system of which they
were members at the time immediately prior to their employ-
ment in the innovative schools.
   32029.5. Persons employed in the innovative schools in
positions not requiring certification qualifications shall be
deemed to be on leave of absence from the school district
whose employment they leave to accept employment in the
innovative schools, and shall retain permanent status, or credit
for service toward permanent status, in such school district
during their employment with the innovative schools. Such
persons shall continue to be members of, and contribute to,
the retirement system of which they were members at the
time immediately prior to their employment in the innovative
schools.
   32030. The budget of each innovative school shall be de-
veloped and prepared by the administrative staff in consulta-
tion with the teachers in the school and with the advice of the
commission. Approval of each school budget shall rest with
the commission. The budget shall be subject to such other ap-
provals as are required by law.
   32031. The cost of transportation of pupils between the
local school district and the innovative schools, to encourage
attendance of pupils who are representative of the regional
attendance area, may be included in budgets prepared under
Section 32030.
   32032. The pupils in each innovative school shall be lim-
ited to those in grades 1 through 3. They shall, as near as
possible, be representative of the ethnic and socioeconomic
characteristics of the regional attendance area served by the
school. Efforts shall be made by the staff of the innovative
school and the school districts in the regional area to inform
parents and recruit pupils for attendance at the innovative
school.
   32033. Pupils enrolled in the innovative schools shall at-
tend the innovative schools only one-half of the regular school-
day and one-half in the schools of the participating school
district. Participating school districts and innovative schools
shall cooperate in the appropriate scheduling of subjects in
the schools of such district to complement the program of the
innovative schools.
   32034. For the purpose of computing apportionments from
the State School Fund, the attendance of a pupil for any part
of a schoolday in the regular day schools of the district shall
be credited with one day of attendance where the pupil at-
tended an innovative school for the remainder of such school-
day.
3056               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQ^   ^494

   32035. The innovative schools shall emphasize instruction
in reading and mathematics.
   32036. The commission shall annually review the operation
of the innovative schools as a total program, and for each
school, and shall submit a comprehensive report to the Legis-
lature on or before the fifth legislative day of each regular
session. The contents of such report shall be determined
jointly by the commission and the office of the Legislative
Analyst.
   SEC. 2. The State Board of Education in approving any
state plan for the administration of federal funds to be re-
ceived under the provisions of Title I I I of the Elementary
Secondary Education Act of 1965 shall assure that in 1969-
1970 an amount of five hundred twelve thousand dollars
 ($512,000), in 1970-1971 an amount of two million two hun-
dred eighty-four thousand dollars ($2,284,000), and in 1971-
1972 an amount of four million four hundred fifty-nine thou-
sand dollars ($4,459,000) shall be reserved and allocated to
the Educational Eesearch Commission as an applicant for
such funds, to be used by the commission for the purposes of
Chapter 6 (commencing at Section 32001) of Division 22 of
the Education Code.

                        CHAPTER 1494
An act to amend Sections 11251, 11252, 11301, 11401, 11404,
  and 17601.1 of, and to amend and renumber Section 11412
  of, the Education Code, relating to average daily attendance,
  and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immedi-
  ately.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Superintendent of Public Instruction may
authorize, for the fiscal year 1968-1969 only, an alternate
method of computing average daily attendance to the method
provided for in Sections 11301 and 11401 of the Education
Code for regular day schools.
   SEC. 1.3. The alternate method authorized by the Super-
intendent of Public Instruction shall require recording of at-
tendance for each day of the school month.
  SEC. 1.5. The governing board of each school district shall
determine whether or not the average daily attendance for the
district shall be computed by the alternate method.
  SEC. 1.7. If the average daily attendance computed by
the alternate method in the regular day schools of a district
for the period between July 1 and June 30 exceeds the average
daily attendance in the regular day schools reported in the
second period report, the excess shall be brought forward to
                    1969
Ch. 1494]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3057

the corresponding categories of attendance of the second period
report for the next succeeding fiscal year.
   SEC. 1.9. Section 11251 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   11251. (a) In computing the average daily attendance of
a school district, there shall be included only the attendance of
pupils while engaged in educational activities required of such
pupils and under the immediate supervision and control of an
employee of the district who possessed a valid certification doc-
ument, registered as required by law, authorizing him to render
service in the capacity and during the period in which he
served.
    (b) The State Department of Education shall, in coopera-
tion with the Department of Finance and the Legislative Ana-
lyst, conduct a study to devise a suitable method for deter-
mining the number of units of average daily attendance for
a fiscal year, of pupils in grades kindergarten through 12
enrolled in elementary districts, high school districts, and
unified districts. Such method shall be based upon the mean
average of active enrollment figures on appropriate dates
throughout the school year, multiplied by a proven percentage
ratio of enrollment to average daily attendance.
    If the method devised will yield approximately the same
total number of average daily attendance as is now obtained
by existing methods specified in this code and such method
has been approved by the State Board of Education, it shall
be recommended to the Legislature to be used for all compu-
tations of average daily attendance in the regular day classes
 of the elementary and high schools.
    SEC. 2. Section 11252 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    11252. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 10951 to
 11653, inclusive, Sections 17151 to 18460.1, inclusive, Sections
 18654 to 20251, inclusive, Sections 20501 to 21801, inclusive,
 and Sections 21803 to 22152, inclusive, whichever are in effect,
 it is necessary to compute the average daily attendance of a
 school of a district for any certain purpose and no provision
 is made for the computation thereof for such purpose, the av-
 erage daily attendance of the school shall be computed by
 dividing the total number of days of pupil attendance by the
 number of days school was actually taught in the regular day
 schools of the district.
     SEC. 3. Section 11301 of the Education Code is amended
 to read:
     11301. The units of average daily attendance in the ele-
 mentary schools of a district for a fiscal year shall be com-
 puted by dividing the total number of days of pupils attend-
 ance in all kindergarten and elementary schools and classes
 of the district during the fiscal year by the number of days
 school was actually taught in the regular day elementary
 schools of the district during the fiscal year, plus the units of
3058              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1494

average daily attendance credited to the district on account of
the education of seventh and eighth grade pupils in a junior
high school pursuant to Section 11404.
   For the purposes of this article, a day of kindergarten at-
tendance is based on the 180-minute minimum day, and shall
be adjusted to 180 when the minimum day is less than 180
minutes as authorized by Section 11003.
    SEC. 4. Section 11401 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    11401. The average daily attendance in the high schools
of a district other than evening high schools, continuation
high schools, and continuation education classes, for a fiscal
year are the quotient arising from dividing the total number
of days of pupils' attendance in the regular day high schools,
summer schools, special high school classes, and the part-time
vocational courses of the district, exclusive of the number of
 days of pupils' attendance in the seventh and eighth grades of
junior high schools, during the fiscal year by the number of
days school was actually taught in the regular day schools
of the district during the fiscal year.
    SEC. 5. Section 11404 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    11404. The units of average daily attendance for a fiscal
year of pupils residing in any elementary school district and
 attending the seventh and eighth grades of a junior high school
 shall be determined separately and shall be computed by divid-
 ing the total number of days of pupils attendance in said
 grades by the number of days school was actually taught dur-
 ing the fiscal year in the regular day high schools of the dis-
 trict maintaining the junior high school the average daily
 attendance so computed shall be credited to the elementary
 school district in which the pupils reside.
    SEC. 6. Section 11412 of the Education Code is amended
 and renumbered to read:
    11257. Each elementary, high school, and unified school
 district shall report to the Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion on forms prepared by the Department of Education in
addition to all other attendance data as required, the active
enrollment as of the the third Wednesday of each school month
 and the actual attendance on the third Wednesday of each
school month; except that if such day is a school holiday, the
 active enrollment and actual attendance of the first immediate
 preceding schoolday shall be reported. "Active enrollment"
 on a day a count is taken means the pupils in enrollment in
 the regular schooldays of the district on the first day of the
 school year on which the schools were in session, plus all later
 enrollees, minus all withdrawals since that day.
    SEC. 7. Section 17601.1 of the Education Code is amended
 to read:
    17601.1. For the purposes of this chapter, the governing
 board of each school district shall report to the Superintendent
                    1969
Ch. 1494]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3059

of Public Instruction during each fiscal year the average daily
attendance of the district for all full school months during (1)
the period between July 1st and December 31st, inclusive, to
be known as the "first period" report for the first principal
apportionment, and (2) the period between July 1st and
April 15th, inclusive, to be known as the "second period"
report for the second principal apportionment. The county su-
perintendent of schools shall report the average daily attend-
ance for the schools and classes maintained by him and the
average daily attendance for the county school tuition fund.
If the average daily attendance in the regular day schools of
a district for the period of time between J u l y 1 and June 30
is greater or lesser than the average daily attendance in the
regular day schools reported for the second period report,
the appropriate increases and decreases in the several cate-
gories of attendance for which separate foundation programs
are required to be computed shall be brought forward to the
corresponding categories of the second period report for the
next succeeding fiscal year.
   Each report shall be prepared in accordance with instruc-
tions on forms prescribed and furnished by the Superintendent
of Public Instruction and average daily attendance shall be
computed in the following manner:
    (a) The average daily attendance in the regular elementary,
junior high, and high schools maintained by the school dis-
tricts shall be determined by dividing the total number of
days of attendance in all full school months in each period,
by the number of days such schools are actually taught in all
full school months in each period.
   If the average daily attendance in schools and classes main-
tained by school districts other than regular day schools and
classes for the period of time between July 1 and June 30 is
greater or lesser than the average daily attendance in such
schools and classes reported for the second period report, the
appropriate increases and decreases in the attendance for such
schools and classes for which separate state financial support
is provided shall be brought forward to the appropriate at-
 tendance computation for such schools and classes on the
 second period report for the next succeeding fiscal year.
    (b) The average daily attendance in grades 13 and 14 of
 the regular day schools of each junior college shall be deter-
 mined pursuant to the provisions of Article 5.5 (commencing
 with Section 11475). For junior colleges, under the provisions
 of this paragraph, the "first period" shall be the first semester
 and the "second period" shall be the "academic y e a r " (first
 and second semester). The average daily attendance in each
 period shall not exceed 1.2 times the number of different pupils
 enrolled in the district during the period.
     (c) The average daily attendance in summer school and
 outdoor science and conservation education classes maintained
 during the period between the last day the regular day
3060               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Q^   1&94:

 schools are in session during the preceding year and the first
 day the regular day schools are in session during the current
 year shall be reported on both the first period and second
 period reports. Such average daily attendance shall be com-
 puted by dividing the days of attendance by 175. For junior
 colleges, the hours of attendance shall be divided by 525, and
 the average daily attendance shall not exceed 1.2 times the
 total number of different pupils enrolled in the district in the
 summer school.
    (d) The attendance for schools and classes maintained by
 the county superintendent of schools and for the county school
 tuition fund credited after the last full school month of the
 second period of the preceding year and prior to the end of
 each reporting period shall be reported on each report. The
 average daily attendance of the school, class, or fund shall be
 determined for the first period by dividing the days of attend-
 ance by 100 and for the second period, the days of attend-
 ance shall be divided by 175.
    (e) The days of attendance in classes for adults continu-
 ation schools and classes, regional occupation centers and op-
 portunity schools and classes maintained after the last full
 school month of the second period of the preceding year and
 prior to the end of each reporting period shall be reported on
 each report. The average daily attendance in such schools and
 classes shall be determined for the first period by dividing the
 days of attendance by 100; for the second period, the days
of attendance shall be divided by 175.
   SEC. 5. For the fiscal year 1969-70, each high school and
unified school district maintaining schools and classes for
adults shall report to the Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion, on forms prepared by the Department of Education, in
addition to all other attendance data as required, the total
number of class hours for which students are actively enrolled
in each approved class maintained by the school district dur-
ing the first class session of the third scheduled week of the
class.
   I t is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this section
of this act that the Department of Education shall use such
data to determine if a more feasible and efficient method of
attendance accounting for classes for adults may be devised
which will produce approximately the same number of units
of average daily attendance as under the present provisions
of the Education Code. In carrying out the requirements of
this section of this act, the Department of Education shall
consult with the Department of Finance and the Legislative
Analyst. This section of this act shall have no force or effect
after June 30, 1970.
   SEC. 6. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are;
                       1969
Ch 1495]                      REGULAR SESSION                    306I

   As a result of a change in the method of computing the
average daily attendance of school districts, effective for the
1968-1969 school year, several school districts throughout the
state are recording unnaturally low attendance totals. As a
result, such districts are in jeopardy of not receiving state
school funds at the level anticipated. Such loss of funds will
endanger the fiscal stability and educational program adequacy
of the school districts resulting in educational deprivation of
students. To prevent this unfortunate occurrence, and in
order to permit the other computations required by this act
to be operative for the entire 1969-1970 school year, it is
necessary that this act take effect immediately.


                          CHAPTER 1495
An act to amend Sections 6252 and 6254 of, to repeal Section
  6257 of, to add Section 6257 to, and to add Article 10.5
  (commencing with Section 6270) to Chapter 6 of Division 6
  of, the Education Code, relating to vocational    education,
  making an appropriation therefor, and declaring the ur-
  gency thereof, to take effect immediately.
           [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6252 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6252. The people of the state accept the provisions of, and
each of the funds provided by, the act of Congress entitled " A n
act to strengthen and improve the quality of vocational educa-
tion and to expand the vocational opportunities in the Nation"
approved December 17, 1963, and amended October 16, 1968.
   SEC. 2. Section 6254 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6254. The State Board of Education is designated as the
state board to carry out the purposes and the provisions of
the acts of Congress, and is given all necessary power and
authority to cooperate with the United States Commissioner of
Education and the United States Office of Education in the
 administration of the provisions of the federal acts and of this
 article (commencing with Section 6251).
    SEC. 3. Section 6257 of the Education Code is repealed.
    SEC. 4. Section 6257 is added to the Education Code, to
 read:
    6257. The governing board of each school district partici-
 pating in a vocational education program shall appoint a
 Vocational Education Advisory Committee to develop recom-
 mendations on the program and to provide liaison between the
 district and potential employers.
3062              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [(jj1_ ^495

   The committee shall consist of one or more representatives of
students, teachers, business, industry, labor, and school admin-
istration.
   SEC. 4.5. Section 6257 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   6257. The governing board of each school district partici-
pating in a vocational education program shall appoint a vo-
cational education advisory committee to develop recommenda-
tions on the program and to provide liaison between the
district and potential employers.
   The committee shall consist of one or more representatives
of the general public knowledgeable about the disadvantaged,
students, teachers, business, industry, labor, school adminis-
tration, and the local office of the Department of Human Ke-
sources Development.
   SEC. 5. Article 10.5 (commencing with Section 6270) is
added to Chapter 6 of Division 6 of the Education Code, to
read:
          Article 10.5. Summer Vocational Education

   6270. This article may be cited as the Summer Vocational
 and Technical Education Act of 1969.
   6271. The Legislature finds that it is urgently necessary to
reduce the continuing high level of unemployment among the
youth and young adults by broadening and strengthening the
existing vocational education programs to provide them with
 the necessary work skills in order that they will be equipped to
participate in a meaningful manner in our ever increasingly
technical society.
   I t is the intent of the Legislature by the provisions of this
article to afford a means whereby school districts may broaden
and strengthen the existing vocational education programs and
to provide the districts with necessary financial support to
enable them to implement vocational training and work pro-
grams during the summer months for the unemployed youth
and young adults so that they may be trained in marketable
work skills and earn such funds as may be necessary to enable
them to continue their education.
   6272. A program of summer vocational and technical edu-
cation may be established pursuant to this article by the gov-
erning board of any school district maintaining one or more
high schools. Pupils who have completed grades 9 to 12 may be
permitted to participate in a program.
   Summer vocational and technical education programs shall
consist of training and instruction in any skills and crafts in
which ample opportunities for gainful employment are to be
found. The program may include work experience involving
the gainful employment of pupils. The provisions of Article 2
 (commencing with Section 1940) of Chapter 2 of Part 7 of
the Labor Code, limiting the employment of aliens by public
agencies shall not be applicable to the employment of pupils
under this article.
                   1969
Ch. 1495]                 REGULAR SESSION                 3063

   6273. Wages earned by pupils participating in a program
of summer vocational and technical education, shall be paid
weekly, or, if not reasonably possible, biweekly.
   6274. Any program of summer vocational and technical
education established pursuant to this article shall be subject
to the prior approval of the Department of Education, and no
average daily attendance of pupils in such a program shall be
credited to a district unless the program has been approved
and is conducted pursuant to the rules, regulations, and stand-
ards prescribed by the department. School districts desiring to
participate under the provisions of this article shall submit
to the department applications which shall include plans for
the establishment of a summer vocational and technical edu-
cation program, and describing in detail its proposed content
and operation.
   6275. Bach school district participating in the program
shall submit a report annually on the conduct of its summer
vocational and technical education programs, including an
evaluation thereof, to the department on forms provided by
the department.
   6276. Upon approval by the department, the governing
board of any school district may contract with and receive
and expend funds from any other public or private agency,
foundation, or corporation for the purposes of this article.
The governing board of any school district may cooperate with
public and private institutions of higher education in con-
ducting programs pursuant to this article.
   6277. The governing board of a school district whose pro-
gram has been approved by the department, may, no more than
10 weeks prior to the beginning of the program for the forth-
coming summer, employ sufficient staff to perform the ad-
ministrative tasks necessary to implement the program.
   6278. The department shall adopt such rules and regula-
tions that are necessary to implement the provisions of this
article. The rules and regulations shall include standards for
the vocational and technical education programs provided for
under this article.
   6279. The department in cooperation with the school dis-
tricts shall develop curriculums for purposes of this article.
   6280. The department shall annually, on or before the 30th
legislative day of the regular session of the Legislature, re-
port to the Legislature on the operation and results of the
programs established pursuant to this article, including in the
report its recommendations in connection therewith.
   6281. From funds appropriated by the Legislature for
the purposes of this article, a school district, upon the ap-
proval of the department, shall be reimbursed for the current
expense actually incurred by the district per pupil in average
daily attendance participating in the program during the
preceding fiscal year that is in excess of the foundation pro-
gram amount for the district during such year for such pupil,
3064               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  m ^ "[495

plus any other state funds or federal funds received, or to be
received, for operation of the program.
  SEC. 6. There is hereby appropriated to the Department
of Education from the General Fund the total amount of
seventy-one thousand dollars ($71,000) for expenditure for
the purposes of Article 10.5 (commencing with Section 6270)
of Chapter 6 of Division 6 of the Education Code during the
1970-1971 fiscal year.
   SEC. 6.5. Section 6257 of the Education Code, as added
by Section 4.5 of this act shall become operative only if Assem-
bly Bill No. 1820 is enacted by the Legislature at its 1969
Regular Session and in such case, at the same time as Section
4 of Assembly Bill No. 1820 becomes operative at which time
Section 6257 of the Education Code as added by Section 4 of
this act is repealed.
   SEC. 7. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
  In order that the program of summer vocational and tech-
nical education contemplated by this act be developed and
implemented for the summer of 1969, it is necessary that this
act take effect immediately.


                        CHAPTER 1496
  An act to add Section 14402.5 to, the Government             Code,
             relating to the State Contract Act.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14402.5 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   14402.5. At the request and expense of the contractor and
with the approval of the department, any payment withheld
pursuant to Section 14402 shall be deposited with the State
Treasurer or a state or federal chartered bank as the escrow
agent, who shall pay such moneys to the contractor upon the
placing of securities eligible for the investment of state funds
under Section 16430 or bank certificates of deposit into such
escrow account by the contractor.
   The contractor shall be beneficial owner of any securities
in an escrow account pursuant to this section and shall receive
any interest thereon.
   Any escrow agreement entered into pursuant to this section
shall contain as a minimum, the following provisions;
                        1969
Ch. 1497]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3065

   (a) The amount of securities to be deposited;
   (b) The terms and conditions of conversion to cash in case
of the default of the contractor; and
   (c) The termination of the escrow upon completion of the
contract.

                           CHAPTBE 1497
    An act to amend Section 22700 of the Education            Code,
                relating to higher education.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 22700 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
    22700. There is hereby created an advisory body, the Co-
ordinating Council for Higher Education, to be composed of
three representatives each of the University of California, the
California State Colleges, the public junior colleges, the pri-
vate colleges and universities in the state, and six representa-
tives of the general public. The university shall be represented
by the president and two regents appointed by the regents.
The California State Colleges shall be represented by the chan-
cellor and two trustees appointed by the trustees. Public junior
colleges shall be represented by a member of the State Board
of Education or its chief executive officer as the board may
from time to time determine, and a member of a local public
junior college governing board and a public junior college ad-
ministrator. The junior college governing board member shall
be selected by the State Board of Education from a list or lists
of five names submitted for its consideration by any association
or associations of statewide coverage which represent junior
college governing boards. The public junior college administra-
tor shall be selected by the State Board of Education from a
list of five names submitted for its consideration by the Cali-
fornia Junior College Association. The private colleges and
universities shall be represented by three persons, each of
whom shall be affiliated with a private institution of higher
education as a governing board member or as a staff member,
in an academic or administrative capacity and shall be ap-
pointed by the Governor after consultation with an association
 or associations of such private institutions and subject to con-
 firmation by the Senate. The general public shall be repre-
 sented by six members appointed by the Governor subject to
confirmation by the Senate. The terms of the appointments
 made pursuant to this section shall be as follows:
   (a) The representatives appointed by the regents shall
serve one-year terms.
3066              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1497

   (b) The representatives appointed by the trustees shall
serve one-year terms.
   (c) The member of the State Board of Education or its
chief executive officer who represents the public junior colleges
shall serve until the first meeting of the board in the next
succeeding calendar year following his appointment.
   (d) Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, the
term of office of all of the other members of the council
appointed pursuant to this section is four years, and they
shall hold office until the appointment of their successors.
   The terms of such members in office on November 1, 1965,
shall expire as follows:
   (1) The term of the member who, as a member of a local
public junior college governing board, is representing the
public junior colleges, the term of one of the members repre-
senting the private colleges and universities, and the term of
one of the members representing the public shall expire on
November 1,1965.
   (2) The term of one of the members representing the pri-
vate colleges and universities, and the term of one of the mem-
bers representing the public shall expire on November 1, 1966.
   (3) The term of the member who, as a public junior college
administrator, is representing the public junior colleges and
the term of one of the members representing the public shall
expire on November 1, 1967.
   (4) The term of the other member representing the private
colleges and universities, and the term of one of the members
representing the public shall expire on November 1, 1968.
   (5) The terms of the other two members representing the
public shall expire on November 1,1969.
   On or before November 1, 1965, the Governor shall designate
the order in which the terms of his appointees expire pursuant
to this subdivision.
   (e) Any person appointed pursuant to this section may be
reappointed to serve additional terms.
   No appointing authority specified in this section shall ap-
point any person to alternate membership on the council with
the following exceptions who shall be appointed by the appro-
priate appointing authority: two alternates for the president
and the two representatives of the regents; two alternates for
the chancellor and the two representatives of the trustees;
and two alternates for the chancellor and the two representa-
tives of the Board of Governors of the California Commu-
nity Colleges. Each alternate shall be a member of the ap-
propriate appointing authority and shall be appointed for an
annual term.
   No person appointed pursuant to this section shall, with
respect to any matter before the council, vote for or on behalf
of, or in any way exercise the vote of, any other member of
the council.
                        1969
Ch. 1498]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3067

   Commencing on February 1, 1968, the public junior colleges
shall, notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this section,
be represented exclusively by two members of the Board of
Governors of the California Community Colleges chosen an-
nually by the board, and the chief executive officer of the
California Community Colleges. The representatives of the
Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges shall
serve for one-year terms.

                           CHAPTER 1498
An act to amend Sections 2105 and 2106 of, and to add Section
  186.6 to, the Streets and Highways Code, relating to high-
  way funds.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 186.6 is added to the Streets and High-
ways Code, to read:
   186.6. There is hereby appropriated to the commission from
the Motor Vehicle Fuel Fund an amount not to exceed fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) annually for work done by the
department in assisting the Controller in carrying out duties
imposed upon his office in reviewing, approving or modifying
the expenditure of highway user funds by local agencies.
    SEC. 2. Section 2105 of the Streets and Highways Code is
amended to read:
    2105. Not less than 20 percent of the funds received by
 each county under subdivisions (d), (e), and (f) of Section
 2104 shall be expended for acquisition of rights-of-way for
 and construction of routes on the select system of county
 roads or city streets for such county established as provided
 in Section 186.3.
    SEC. 3. Section 2106 of the Streets and Highways Code
 is amended to read:
    2106. A sum equal to the net revenue derived from one and
 four one-hundredths cent ($0.0104) per gallon tax under the
 Motor Vehicle Fuel License Tax Law shall be apportioned
 monthly from the Highway Users Tax F u n d among counties
 and cities for use exclusively for county road and city street
 purposes, as provided in this section.
    The amounts available under this section shall be appor-
 tioned, as follows:
    (a) Four hundred dollars ($400) per month shall be ap-
 portioned to each city and city and county and eight hundred
 dollars ($800) per month shall be apportioned to each county
 and city and county.
    (b) The balance shall be apportioned, as follows:
3068               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      rQh. 1499

   (1) A base sum shall be computed for each county by using
the same proportions of fee-paid and exempt vehicles as are
established for purposes of apportionment of funds under sub-
division (d) of Section 2104.
   (2) For each county the percentage of the total assessed
valuation of tangible property subject to local tax levies within
the county which is represented by the assessed valuation of
tangible property outside the incorporated cities of the county
shall be applied to its base sum, and the resulting amount shall
be apportioned to the county. The assessed valuation of taxable
tangible property for purposes of this computation shall be
that most recently used for countywide tax levies as reported
to the State Controller by the State Board of Equalization.
   (3) The difference between the base sum for each county
and the amount apportioned to the county shall be appor-
tioned to the cities of that county in the proportion that the
population of each city bears to the total population of all cities
in the county. Populations used for determining expenditure
of moneys under Section 2107 are to be used for purposes of
this section.
   No apportionment shall be made to any city or county which
does not have a select system established in accordance with
the provisions of Section 186.3. If all or a portion of the select
system of a city or county shall by a change in the physical
limits of such city or county be included within the boundaries
of another city or county, such portion shall be considered to
be a part of the select system of such other city or county.
Any amounts which would otherwise have been apportioned to
a city which does not so qualify for an apportionment shall be
reapportioned to the remaining cities in the county in which
such city is located or, if there are no eligible cities in the
county, to the county. Any amounts which would otherwise
have been apportioned to a county which does not so qualify
for an apportionment shall be reapportioned to the eligible
cities in such county or, if there are no eligible cities in the
county, to other counties and cities pursuant to this section.


                        C H A P T E E 1499
An act to add Sections 26822.3 and 72056.1 to the Government
         Code, relating to the Judges' Retirement Law.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SKCTION 1. Section 26822.3 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
  26822.3. In addition to, and at the same time, as fees are
collected pursuant to Sections 26821, 26821.2, 26826, 26826.2,
and 26827, a fee of two dollars ($2) shall be collected.
                        l969
Ch. 1501]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3069

  The funds shall be transmitted at the end of each month to
the State Controller for payment into the Judges' Retirement
Fund.
   SEC. 2. Section 72056.1 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   72056.1. In addition to, and at the same time, as fees are
collected pursuant to Sections 72055 and 72056, a fee of one
dollar ($1) shall be collected.
   The funds shall be transmitted at the end of each month to
the State Controller for payment into the Judges' Retirement
Fund.

                           CHAPTER 1500
               An act to add Section 789.5 to the Civil
                     Code, relating to tenancies.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 789.5 is added to the Civil Code, to
read:
   789.5. No tenancy or other estate at will or lease, how-
ever created on or after the effective date of this section, in a
mobilehome park may be terminated except upon the land-
lord's giving notice in writing to the tenant, in the manner
prescribed by Section 1162 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to
remove from the premises within a period of not less than
60 days, to be specified in the notice. No lease shall contain
any provision by which the tenant waives his rights under this
section, and any such waiver shall be deemed contrary to pub-
lic policy and shall be unenforceable and void. However, any
lease may provide that the tenancy may be terminated upon
the landlord's giving notice in writing to the tenant, in such
prescribed manner, to remove from the premises within a
period of more than 60 days, to be specified in the notice.
   This section shall only apply to mobilehomes or trailer
coaches which are required to be moved under permit.
   This section shall not affect any rights or proceedings set
forth in Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 1159) of Title
3 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure.


                               CHAPTER 1501
An act to add Chapter 6.8 (commencing with Section 6499.51)
  to Division 6 of the Education Code, relating to the Ele-
  mentary and Secondary School Dropout Prevention Act of
  1969.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3070              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo^ J 5 Q 1

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 6.8 (commencing with Section 6499.51)
is added to Division 6 of the Education Code, to read:

   CHAPTER 6.8. T H E ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOL
             DROPOUT PREVENTION ACT OP 1969

   6499.51. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as
the Elementary and Secondary School Dropout Prevention
Act of 1969.
   6499.52. It is the intention of the Legislature that programs
be established to reduce the number of children who do not
complete their elementary and secondary education. Such pro-
grams are to be designed to develop and demonstrate effective
educational practices for the reduction and prevention of drop-
outs in urban and rural schools with high concentrations of
children from low income families and with high dropout
rates.
   I t is also the intention of the Legislature that all district,
state, and federal programs related to dropout prevention be
integrated and coordinated with the dropout prevention pro-
grams created by this chapter.
   6499.53. As used in this chapter:
   (a) " D r o p o u t " means a person who withdraws from school
enrollment, or is excluded from school by suspension or ex-
pulsion before completing his elementary and secondary school
education.
    (b) " P r o g r a m " means an Elementary and Secondary
School Dropout Prevention Program established pursuant to
this chapter.
   6499.54. Any school district may apply to establish a drop-
out prevention program. The application shall be submitted to
the State Board of Education and shall contain a detailed
plan which shall include all of the following:
   (a) A description of the dropout prevention program pro-
posed including the innovative methods system, materials, or
programs and performance objectives to be utilized which
show promise of reducing the numbers of elementary and sec-
ondary children who do not complete their education.
    (b) A description of the procedures to be established to
coordinate the development and operation of programs with
other local, state, and federal dropout prevention programs
and with other public and private programs having the same
or a similar purpose.
    (c) A description of the evaluative techniques and objec-
tive measures to be utilized by the applicant school district to
 determine the reduction in the numbers of children who drop
 out of, or are excluded from, educational programs prior to
 achieving a proficiency required for graduation from high
school.
                    1969
Ch. 1501]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3071

   (d) A description of the proposed educational and adminis-
trative staffing of the program.
   (e) A description of the steps taken in the development of
the proposed program including involvement of potential par-
ticipants and their families.
   (f) Evidence that the district has examined its existing
dropout prevention programs supported from local, state, and
federal funds with the Elementary and Secondary School
Dropout Prevention Programs authorized by this chapter, and
evidence that the district intends to integrate such effective
programs into the programs authorized by this chapter to in-
crease its overall expenditure for dropout prevention programs.
   6499.55. In approving applications for program approval
pursuant to this chapter, the State Board of Education shall
give priority to the acceptable applications from (1) districts
with the highest concentrations of children from families with
an annual income of four thousand dollars ($4,000) or less,
and (2) districts which exceed the average statewide dropout
rate.
   6499.56. The State Board of Education shall adopt rules
and regulations necessary to implement the provisions of this
chapter.
   6499.57. School districts which have dropout prevention
programs shall report to the State Board of Education the
effectiveness of programs in reducing the number of school
dropouts. The State Board of Education, on the basis of such
reports, shall report annually to the Legislature on the success
of the program and shall make recommendations to improve
the program.
   6499.58. Not later than 1972-73 fiscal year, the State Board
of Education shall distribute a description of the results
achieved in the exemplary programs conducted. Comprehensive
information regarding such exemplary programs shall be dis-
tributed to each school district of the state. The cost of pre-
paring and distributing such information shall be financed
from funds allowed under Title I I I of the Elementary and
Secondary Education Act of 1965.
   6499.59. The State Board of Education shall establish pro-
cedures for allocating funds to support the dropout prevention
programs authorized by this chapter.
   6499.60. There is, within the Office of Compensatory Edu-
cation, a unit of Elementary and Secondary School Dropout
Prevention which shall administer the provisions of this chap-
ter and all programs financed under the provisions of Title
V I I I of the Elementary and Secondary Act of 1965 (Public
Law 89-10, as amended).
   6499.61. The State Board of Education shall approve the
allocation of all funds annually received by the State of Cali-
fornia under the provisions of Title V I I I of the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (Public Law 89-10, as
amended) for the purposes specified in this chapter.

    97—1954
3072              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                       [ 0 n 1502

                        CHAPTER 1502
         An act to amend Section 1773.1 of the Labor
                   Code, relating to wages.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 1773.1 of the Labor Code is amended
to read:
   1773.1. Per diem wages shall be deemed to include employer
payments for health and welfare, pension, vacation, appren-
ticeship or other training programs authorized by Section
3093, and similar purposes, when the term ' ' per diem wages''
is used in this chapter or in any other statute applicable to
public works.
   For the purpose of determining such per diem wages for
 contracts entered into with the state, the representative of
 any craft, classification or type of workman needed to execute
the contracts entered into with the state shall file with the
Department of Industrial Eelations fully executed copies of
the collective bargaining agreements for the particular craft,
classification or type of work involved. Such agreements shall
be filed within 10 days after their execution and thereafter
may be taken into consideration pursuant to Section 1773
whenever filed 30 days prior to the call for bids.


                        CHAPTER 1503
An act to amend Section 13187 of, and to add Sections 13124.6,
  13124.7, and 13188.5 to, the Education Code, relating to
  teaching credentials.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature hereby reaffirms its conviction
that skillfully guided early learning experiences for young
children are important to their ultimate mastery of reading,
arithmetic, and other essential learnings. Therefore, the Legis-
lature seeks, by this act, to increase the opportunities for teach-
ers of young children by strengthening their preparation.
   Present qualifications for credentialed teachers of young
children are the same as for teachers of kindergarten and
grades 1 through 9, inclusive. Because important special in-
sights and skills are needed, it is essential that prospective cre-
dentialed teachers of young children focus their preparations
more sharply. Therefore, a standard teaching credential is
hereby established for teachers of young children.
                    1969
Ch. 1503]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3073

   The Legislature intends by establishing this credential to en-
courage teacher education institutions to develop specific pro-
grams for the preparation of teachers of young children. These
programs should provide opportunity for credential candi-
dates to focus their professional preparation upon the special
skills and insights needed for appropriate teaching of young
children and for working with their parents.
   It is not the intent of the Legislature that this act shall be
construed so as to interfere with or contravene provisions for
Children's Center Permits.
   It is the intent of the Legislature that persons holding Chil-
dren's Center Permits may move toward fulfilling the require-
ments for this credential with maximum transferability of
units from lower division work. Further, it is the intent of
the Legislature to allow the use of appropriate experience in
early childhood teaching to be used in lieu of any student
teaching requirement or other experience required for the cre-
dential pursuant to the law.
   Articulation of programs leading to a Children's Center
Permit with programs leading to a standard teaching creden-
tial with a specialization in early childhood teaching is essen-
tial in meeting the purposes of this act. I t is the intent of the
Legislature that the Coordinating Council for Higher Educa-
tion and the Commission for Teacher Preparation and Licens-
ing (or the State Board of Education, if Assembly Bill 740 of
the 1969 session of the Legislature is not enacted), develop an
articulation plan which will achieve these purposes. The
council and the commission shall report on this program to
the Legislature by the fifth legislative day of the 1971 Regular
Session.
   SEC. 2. Section 13188.5 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
  13188.5. The minimum requirements for the standard teach-
ing credential with a specialization in early childhood teaching
shall be the requirements set forth in Section 13189 for the
standard teaching credential with a specialization in elementary
teaching, except that the State Board of Education in imple-
menting subdivision (e) of Section 13189 for this credential
shall adopt regulations which focus upon preparation to teach
young children. These regulations shall be such that a variety
of programs may be developed by teacher preparation insti-
tutions, subject to accreditation criteria and processes and to
the provisions of this code.
   The standard teaching credential with a specialization in
early childhood teaching authorizes the following service:
   (a) Teaching in preschool, prekindergarten, kindergarten,
and grades 1 through 3, inclusive.
   (b) Teaching any subjects in classes organized primarily
for adults.
3074               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r@ n # 15Q3

   (c) Teaching in preschool, prekindergarten, kindergarten,
and grades 1 through 12, inclusive, any courses in an area of
specialized preparation listed on the credential.
   (d) Serving as a librarian in an elementary school, junior
high school, or high school, if the specialized area of librarian-
ship is listed as a minor on the credential.
   (e) Teaching elementary level reading in continuation edu-
cation classes, continuation high schools, or high schools.
   SEC. 3. Section 13187 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   13187. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 13187.1,
13117, 13118, 13119, 13271, 13185, 13149, 13150, 13151, 13152,
13197.5, and 13292, the State Board of Education shall, on and
after the operative date of this article, issue only the following
five types of credentials:
   (a) A standard teaching credential with specializations in
early childhood teaching, elementary teaching, secondary teach-
ing, or junior college teaching.
   (b) A standard designated subjects teaching credential.
   (c) A standard designated services credential.
   (d) A standard supervision credential.
   (e) A standard administration credential.
   SEC. 4. Section 13187 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   13187. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 13187.1,
13117, 13118, 13119, 13271, 13185, 13149, 13150, 13151, 13152,
13197.5, and 13292, the State Board of Education shall, on
and after the operative date of this article, issue only the fol-
lowing five types of credentials:
   (a) A standard teaching credential with specializations in
early childhood teaching, elementary teaching or secondary
teaching.
   (b) A standard designated subjects teaching credential.
   (c) A standard designated services credential.
   (d) A standard supervision credential.
   (e) A standard administration credential.
   SEC. 5. Section 13124.6 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   13124.6. The Legislature hereby reaffirms its conviction
that skillfully guided early learning experiences for young
children are important to their ultimate mastery of reading,
arithmetic, and other essential learnings. Therefore, the Legis-
lature seeks, by this act, to increase the opportunities for teach-
ers of young children by strengthening their preparation.
   Present qualifications for credentialed teachers of young
children are the same as for teachers of kindergarten and
grades 1 through 9, inclusive. Because important special in-
sights and skills are needed, it is essential that prospective cre-
dentialed teachers of young children focus their preparations
more sharply. Therefore, a standard teaching credential is
hereby established for teachers of young children.
                    1969
Ch. 1503]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3Q75

   The Legislature intends by establishing this credential to en-
courage teacher education institutions to develop specific pro-
grams for the preparation of teachers of young children. These
programs should provide opportunity for credential candi-
dates to focus their professional preparation upon the special
skills and insights needed for appropriate teaching of young
children and for working with their parents.
   It is not the intent of the Legislature that this section and
Section 13124.7 shall be construed so as to interfere with or
contravene provisions for Children's Center Permits.
   I t is the intent of the Legislature that persons holding Chil-
dren 's Center Permits may move toward fulfilling the require-
ments for this credential with maximum transferability of
units from lower division work. Further, it is the intent of
the Legislature to allow the use of appropriate experience in
early childhood teaching to be used in lieu of any student
teaching requirement or other experience required for the cre-
dential pursuant to the law.
   Articulation of programs leading to a Children's Center
Permit with programs leading to a standard teaching creden-
tial with a specialization in early childhood teaching is essen-
tial in meeting the purposes of this act. I t is the intent of the
Legislature that the Coordinating Council for Higher Educa-
tion and the commission develop an articulation plan which
will achieve these purposes. The council and the commission
shall report on this program to the Legislature by the fifth leg-
islative day of the 1971 Regular Session.
   SEC. 6. Section 13124.7 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   13124.7. An early childhood teaching credential authoriz-
ing instruction in preschool, prekindergarten, kindergarten,
and grades 1 to 3, inclusive, shall be offered by the commis-
sion pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 13124.
   The commission shall develop criteria for the credential, in-
cluding the objective examination required of, or appropriate
waivers thereof, candidates for the credentials.
   SEC. 7. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 13187 of the Education Code proposed by this bill
and A.B. 1910 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 13187 in the form set forth
in Section 4 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 1910 is
enacted and amends Section 13187, Section 4 of this act shall
become operative, and at that time, Section 13187 of the Edu-
cation Code as amended by Section 3 of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 8. I t is the intent of the Legislature that if Assembly
Bill No. 740 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature is
enacted, Sections 13124.6 and 13124.7 of the Education Code
as added by Sections 5 and 6 of this act shall become operative
at such time as determined by the Commission for Teacher
Preparation and Licensing, but no later than January 1, 1971,
3076                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qh. 1504

and at that time, Section 1, and Sections 13188.5, and 13187
of the Education Code as enacted by Sections 2 to 4, inclusive,
of this act, are repealed.


                         CHAPTER 1504
An act to add Chapter 7.4 (commencing with Section 25660)
  to Division 20 of the Wealth and Safety Code, relating to
  radiation.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 7.4 (commencing with Section 25660)
is added to Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code, to
read:
            CHAPTER 7.4.      RADIOLOGIC TECHNOLOGY

                Article 1.    Declaration of Policy
   25660. The Legislature finds and declares that the public
health interest requires that the people of this state be pro-
tected from excessive and improper exposure to ionizing radi-
ation. It is the purpose of this chapter to establish standards
of education, training, and experience for persons who use
X-rays on human beings and to prescribe means for assuring
that these standards are met.

                      Article 2.    Definitions
  25661. As used in this chapter:
   (a) " D e p a r t m e n t " means the State Department of Public
Health.
   (b) " B o a r d " means the State Board of Public Health.
   (c) "Committee' means the Radiologic Technology Certifi-
cation Committee.
   (d) "Radiologic technology" means the application of
X-rays on human beings for diagnostic or therapeutic pur-
poses.
   (e) "Radiologic technologist" means any person other than
a licentiate of the healing arts making application of X-rays
to human beings for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes pur-
suant to subdivision (b) of Section 25668.
   (f) "Limited p e r m i t " means a permit issued pursuant
to subdivision (c) of Section 25668 to persons to conduct
radiologic technology limited to the performance of certain
procedures or the application of X-ray to specific areas of the
human body.
   (g) "Approved school for radiologic technologists" means
a school which the department has determined provides a
                     1969
Ch. 1504]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3077

course of instruction in radiologic technology which is ade-
quate to meet the purposes of this chapter.
   (h) "Supervision" means responsibility for, and control of,
quality, radiation safety, and technical aspects of all X-ray
examinations and procedures.
   (i) "Licentiate of the healing a r t s " means a person licensed
under the provisions of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
2000) of Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code who
possesses a certificate issued under the provisions of Section
2135 of such code, and a person licensed under the provi-
sions of the initiative act entitled " A n act prescribing the
terms upon which licenses may be issued to practitioners of
chiropractic, creating the State Board of Chiropractic Exam-
iners and declaring its powers and duties, prescribing penal-
ties for violation thereof, and repealing all acts and parts of
acts inconsistent herewith,'' approved by electors November 7,
1922, as amended, or under the "Osteopathic A c t . "
   (j) "Certified supervisor or operator" means a licentiate of
the healing arts who has been certified under the provisions of
subdivision (e) of Section 25668, Section 25699.1, or Section
25699.2, to supervise the operation of X-ray machines or to
operate X-ray machines, or both.

        Article 3. Radiologic Technology Certification
                         Committee
   25663. The State Board of Public Health shall appoint a
certification committee to assist, advise, and make recommen-
dations for the establishment of rules and regulations neces-
sary to insure the proper administration and enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter, and for those purposes to serve
as consultants to the department. The appointments shall be
made from lists of at least three nominees for each position
submitted by appropriate professional associations and socie-
ties designated by the Director of Public Health, and provi-
sions shall be made for orderly rotation of membership.
   25664. The committee shall consist of the director or his
designate, who shall serve as chairman ex officio, but who shall
not vote, and the following nine members who are residents of
the state:
   (1) Five physicians and surgeons licensed to practice medi-
cine in this state, three of whom shall be certified in radiology
by the American Board of Radiology. At least one of the radi-
ologists shall be representative of the hospital practice of
radiology.
   (2) Two persons with at least five years' experience in the
practice of radiologic technology. At least one of these persons
shall be representative of the hospital practice of radiologic
technology. Except for the appointment of these two persons to
the first committee, every such person thereafter appointed
to the committee under the provisions of this subdivision shall
be certified as a radiologic technologist.
3078               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qh 150&

   (3) One radiological physicist, qualified in the use of physics
in the practice of medicine.
   (4) One licentiate of the healing arts who is not a physician
or surgeon.
   25665. Members of the committee shall serve without com-
pensation but shall receive their actual and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of the duties of their office.

          Article 4. Administration and Begulations
   25668. The board shall:
    (a) Upon recommendation of the committee, adopt such
regulations as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes
of this chapter.
    (b) Provide for certification of radiologic technologists,
without limitation as to procedures or areas of application,
 except as provided in Section 25673. Separate certificates shall
be provided for diagnostic and for therapeutic radiologic tech-
nology.
   (c) Provide, as may be deemed appropriate, for granting
limited permits to persons to conduct radiologic technology
limited to the performance of certain procedures or the appli-
cation of X-ray to specific areas of the human body, prescribe
minimum standards of training and experience for such per-
sons, and prescribe procedures for examining applicants for
such limited permits. The minimum standards shall include a
requirement that persons granted limited permits under this
subdivision shall meet such fundamental requirements in basic
radiological health training and knowledge similar to those
required for persons certified under subdivision (b) of this
section as the board determines are reasonably necessary for
the protection of the health and safety of the public.
    (d) Provide for the approval of schools for radiologic tech-
nologists.
   (e) Provide, upon recommendation of the committee, for
certification of licentiates of the healing arts to supervise the
operation of X-ray machines or to operate X-ray machines, or
both, prescribe minimum standards of training and experience
for such licentiates of the healing arts, and prescribe proce-
dures for examining applicants for certification. Such certifica-
tion may limit the use of X-rays to certain X-ray procedures
and the application of X-rays to specific areas of the human
body.
   (f) Upon recommendation of the committee, exempt from
certification requirements licentiates of the healing arts who
have successfully completed formal courses in schools certified
by the board and who have successfully passed a roentgen-
ology technology and radiation protection examination ap-
proved by the board and administered by the board which
issued his license.
   25669. Any rules and regulations adopted by the board
pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 25668 shall be adopted
                    1969
Ch. 1504]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3079

only after consultation with and approval of the committee.
Approval of such rules and regulations shall be made by
five affirmative votes of those present at an official meeting of
the committee.
   25670. The department shall, upon individual application,
grant special permits to persons, excepting such persons from
specific provisions of this chapter or of the rules and regula-
tions issued thereunder, if the department finds to its satisfac-
tion that there is substantial evidence that the people in the
locality of this state, in which such exemption is sought, would
be denied adequate medical care because of unavailability of
certified or certifiable radiologic technologists. Such special
permits shall be granted for limited periods of time to be
prescribed by the department in accordance with the purposes
of this chapter, and such permits may be renewed.

      Article 5.   Certification in Radiologic Technology
   25671. It shall be unlawful for any person to administer
or use diagnostic or therapeutic X-ray on human beings in this
state after July 1, 1971, unless such person has been certified
or granted a permit pursuant to subdivision (b) or (e) of
Section 25668 or pursuant to Section 25670, is acting within
the scope of such certification or permit, and is acting under
the supervision of a licentiate of the healing arts.
   25672. The provisions of Section 25671 shall not apply to
any of the following persons :
   (a) Licentiates of the healing arts.
   (b) Students in an approved school for radiologic technol-
ogists and in schools of medicine, podiatry or chiropractic
when such students are operating X-ray machines under the
supervision of an instructor who is a certified radiologic tech-
nologist or a certified supervisor or operator; and students of
dentistry, dental hygiene and dental assisting when such stu-
dents are operating X-ray machines under the supervision of
an instructor who is a licensed dentist.
    (c) Any person employed by an agency of the government
of the United States while performing the duties of such
employment.
    (d) Persons temporarily exempted pursuant to Section
25680.
    (e) A licensed dentist; or person who, under the supervision
of a licensed dentist, operates only dental radiographic equip-
ment for the sole purpose of oral radiography. This subdivision
shall be operative only if Senate Bill 1379 of the 1969 Regular
 Session of the Legislature is enacted and provides for the
 examination of such licensed dentist or person in radiation
safety.
    (f) A person who has been certified or granted a limited
 permit pursuant to subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 25668
and who performs dental radiography in a dental X-ray lab-
 oratory upon the written order of a licensed dentist.
3080              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQJj J 5 0 4

   25673. Certification in. radiologic technology pursuant to
Section 25668 shall not authorize any of the following:
    (a) The use of diagnostic or therapeutic X-ray equipment
except under the supervision of a certified supervisor or op-
erator.
    (b) The interpretation of any radiograph or a diagnosis
based upon it.
    (c) The reporting of any diagnosis to a patient except as
ordered by a licentiate of the healing arts.
    (d) The use of any title or designation indicating or im-
plying the right to practice any of the healing arts.
   25674. A radiologic technologist certified pursuant to sub-
division (b) of Section 25668 may use the title, certified radio-
logic technologist (CRT). No other person shall use such des-
ignation. The department may prescribe appropriate titles for
use by categories of persons granted permits pursuant to sub-
division (c) of Section 25668 and may limit the use of such
titles.
   25675. The department shall prescribe minimum qualifica-
tions for granting of permits and certificates in radiologic
technology in any classification.
   25676. Except as provided in Sections 25683, 25684, or
25685, and in addition to such requirements as may be pre-
scribed pursuant to Section 25675, each applicant for certifica-
tion as a radiologic technologist pursuant to subdivision (b)
of Section 25668 shall submit evidence satisfactory to the de-
partment that he has satisfactorily completed a course in an
approved school for radiologic technologists, or has completed
a course of study and training in radiologic technology which
in the opinion of the department is equivalent to the minimum
requirements of a course in an approved school for radiologic
technologists.
   25677. Except as provided in Section 25683, in order to be
certified as a radiologic technologist pursuant to subdivision
 (b) of Section 25668, an applicant shall pass a written exam-
ination approved by the department and administered by the
department or by such other agency or organization desig-
nated by the department.
   25678. The department may accept in lieu of its own exam-
ination a certificate of another agency or organization which
certifies radiologic technologists, provided the certificate was
issued on the basis of qualifications and an examination deemed
by the department to be reasonably equivalent to the stand-
ards established by the department.
   25679. The department shall certify as a radiologic tech-
nologist any applicant who meets the requirements of this
chapter.
   25680. The department may issue a permit authorizing the
temporary practice of radiologic technology to any applicant
for certification who has complied with the experience and
education requirements of Section 25676, 25683, 25684, or
                     1969
Ch. 1504]                   REGULAR SESSION                   308I

25685, and is awaiting examination. A permit shall convey the
same rights as a certificate for the period for which it is issued
in the classification for which the applicant is eligible, and
shall be valid until 90 days after the date of the next examina-
tion held pursuant to Section 25681, except that if the appli-
cant does not take such examination the permit shall expire on
the date of such examination.
   25681. The department shall hold at least one examination
each year, for applicants for certification, at such times and
places as the department may determine.
   25682. Not less than two months prior to the date of each
examination, the department shall cause a notice thereof to be
published in two or more newspapers of general circulation,
and at least one radiologic technologist magazine, all of which
are published within the state.

    Article 6.   Certification of Prior Qualified Personnel
   25683. Applicants for certification as radiologic technolo-
gists who have been engaged for a period of at least five years
immediately prior to January 1, 1971, in the practice of radio-
logic technology need not meet the requirements of Section
25676, relating to education, nor the requirements of Section
25677, relating to a written examination, but instead shall, in
order to become certified, pass a practical examination admin-
istered by the department.
   25684. Applicants for certification as radiologic technolo-
gists who have been engaged in the practice of radiologic
technology for a period of less than five years but more than
one year preceding January 1, 1971, need not meet the re-
quirements of Section 25676, relating to education but, in order
to become certified shall pass a written examination as required
by Section 25677 and a practical examination administered by
the department.
   25685. Applicants for certification as radiologic technolo-
gists who have satisfactorily completed a formal course of
radiologic technology of at least 12 months' duration in which
the applicant was enrolled before January 1, 1971, need not
meet the requirements of Section 25676.

       Article 7.   Schools for Radiologic Technologists

   25686. (a) The department shall approve schools for radio-
logic technologists which, in the judgment of the department,
will provide instruction adequate to prepare individuals to
meet requirements for certification as radiologic technologists
under this chapter.
   (b) The department shall provide for reasonable standards
for approved schools, for procedures for obtaining and main-
taining approval, and. for revocation of approval where stand-
ards are not maintained.
3082              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQ^. 1504

   25687. When approving a school for radiologic technolo-
gists, the department may take into consideration accredita-
tion, approval, or certification of the school by other agencies
or organizations if the department finds that such accredita-
tion, approval, or certification was granted on the basis of
standards that will afford the same protection to the public
as the standards provided by this chapter or the regulations
promulgated under it.
   25688. The department may inspect schools for radiologic
technologists prior to approval and at such other times as it
deems necessary to determine that the purposes of this chapter
are being met, and may require any reports from such schools
as it deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   25689. The department may enter into an agreement with
another state agency to perform all or part of the functions
necessary in order to approve and maintain approval of schools
for radiologic technologists.

                Article 8.   Disciplinary Action
   25690. Every holder of a certificate or a permit issued
pursuant to this chapter may be disciplined as provided in this
article. The proceedings under this article shall be conducted
in accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
11500) of P a r t 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
Code, and the department shall have all of the powers granted
therein.
   25691. Certificates and permits may be denied, revoked, or
suspended by the department, for any of the following rea-
sons:
   (a) Habitual intemperance in the use of any alcoholic bev-
erages, narcotics, or stimulants to such an extent as to inca-
pacitate for the performance of professional duties.
   (b) Incompetence or gross negligence in performing radio-
logic technology functions.,
   (e) Conviction of practicing one of the healing arts without
a license in violation of Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
2000) of Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code.
   (d) Procuring a certificate or permit by fraud, or mis-
representation, or because of mistake.
   (e) Use of a designation implying certification as a radio-
logic technologist by one not so certified.
   (f) Nonpayment of fees prescribed in accordance with Sec-
tion 25694.
   (g) Violation of the provisions of Section 25671 or 25673,
or any other provision of this chapter or regulation of the
department.
                      Article 9. Penalties
  25692. Any person who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or regulation of the department adopted pursuant
tg this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor.
                    1969
Ch. 1504]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3083

                       Article 10.   Pees
   25694. (a) The application fee for any certificate or per-
mit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be fixed by the
board in such amount as it deems reasonably necessary to
carry out the purpose of this chapter, not to exceed twenty-
five dollars ($25).
   (b) The fee for any examination conducted pursuant to this
chapter after failure of such an examination within the pre-
vious 12 months shall be fixed by the board in an amount it
deems reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter, not to exceed fifteen dollars ($15).
   (c) The annual renewal fee for each certificate or permit
shall be fixed by the board in an amount it deems reasonably
necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, not to
exceed ten dollars ($10).
   (d) The penalty fee for renewal of any certificate or permit
if application is made after its date of expiration shall be
five dollars ($5) and shall be in addition to the fee for renewal
prescribed by subdivision (c).
   (e) The fee for a duplicate certificate or permit shall be
one dollar ($1).
   (f) No fee shall be required for a certificate or permit or a
renewal thereof except as prescribed in this chapter.
   25695. Failure to pay the annual fee for renewal on or
before the expiration date of the certificate or permit shall
automatically suspend the certificate or permit. If the pre-
scribed fee is not paid within six months following such date,
the certificate or permit shall be revoked. A certificate or per-
mit revoked for nonpayment of the renewal fee may be rein-
stated within five years from the time of revocation upon pay-
ment of the penalty fee plus twice the annual renewal fee. If
the application for reinstatement is not made within five years
from the date of suspension of the certificate or permit, the
certificate or permit shall be canceled and shall not be subject
to reinstatement.
   25696. The board may establish a schedule of fees for per-
mits issued pursuant to subdivisions (c) and (e) of Section
25668, Sections 25670, 25699.1, and 25699.2, provided that
such fees do not exceed the maximum authorized in Section
25694, and further provided that the revenue from such fees
shall be related to the costs of administering the provisions of
this chapter.
   25697. The board may establish a schedule of fees to be
paid by schools applying for approval as approved schools for
radiologic technologists and, on an annual basis, by schools
which are included on the department's list of approved
schools for radiologic technologists. Such fees shall not exceed
ten dollars ($10) per year per registered student.
   25698. All fees payable under the provisions of this chap-
ter shall be collected by and paid to the department. All such
3084               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQ^   J505

moneys shall be deposited by the department in the General
Fund in the State Treasury. The revenue derived from such
fees shall when appropriated by the Legislature be used, to-
gether with such other funds as may be appropriated therefor,
to carry out the purposes of this chapter.

             Article 11. Miscellaneous Provisions
   25699. I t shall be unlawful for any licentiate of the healing
arts to administer or use diagnostic or therapeutic X-ray on
human beings in this state after January 1, 1972, unless such
person is certified pursuant to the provisions of subdivision
 (e) of Section 25668 or Section 25670, and is acting within
the scope of such certification.
   25699.1. A licentiate of the healing arts who is certified by
an examining board in radiology recognized by the department
shall be granted a certificate to supervise the operation of
X-ray machines and to operate X-ray machines without re-
strictions.
   25699.2. A licentiate of the healing arts who prior to
July 1, 1971, operated or supervised the operation of a source
of ionizing radiation possessed by a person or persons properly
registered by the department as a possessor of such a source
of ionizing radiation shall be granted a certificate by the
department to continue such operation or supervision.
   SEC. 2. This chapter shall be operative only until the 61st
day after final adjournment of the 1975 Regular Session of the
Legislature and on and after such date shall have no force or
effect.

                        CHAPTER 1505
An act to add Section 11211 to the Welfare and             Institutions
             Code, relating to public assistance.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 11211 is added to the Welfare and In-
stitutions Code, to read:
   11211. Rehabilitation or employment training or job place-
ment made pursuant to any program of rehabilitation or job
development and placement operated by a county welfare
department or by any state agency shall not be considered
completed, and the recipient shall be considered to remain
unemployed, until such time as the recipient receives from his
earnings an income equivalent to the amount of income which
he and his family are entitled to receive pursuant to provisions
of this chapter.
                        1969
Ch. 1506]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3()g5

   This section shall be operative only on a demonstration proj-
ect basis in a single, urban county selected by the department,
and only during such time as the Secretary of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare has waived compliance with Section 402 of
the Social Security Act as permitted by Section 1115 of that
act.

                           CHAPTER 1506
            An act to amend Section 830.4 of the Penal
                 Code, relating to peace officers.
            tApproved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 830.4 of the Penal Code is amended
to read:
   830.4. (a) The following persons are peace officers while
 engaged in the performance of the duties of their respective
 employments:
    (1) Security officers of the California State Police Division.
    (2) The Sergeant at Arms of each house of the Legislature.
   (3) Bailiffs of the Supreme Court and of the courts of
appeal.
   (4) Guards and messengers of the Treasurer's office.
   (5) The Director of the Department of Harbors and Water-
craft and employees of such department designated by him
pursuant to Section 71.2 of the Harbors and Navigation Code.
   (6) Members of a state college police department appointed
pursuant to Section 24651 of the Education Code.
   (7) The hospital administrator of a state hospital under the
jurisdiction of the Department of Mental Hygiene and police
officers designated by him pursuant to Section 4312 of the Wel-
fare and Institutions Code.
   (8) Any railroad or steamboat company policeman commis-
sioned by the Governor pursuant to Section 8226 of the Public
Utilities Code.
   (9) Persons designated by a cemetery authority pursuant to
Section 8325 of the Health and Safety Code.
   (10) Harbor policemen regularly employed and paid as such
by a county, city, or district, and the port warden and special
officers of the Harbor Department of the City of Los Angeles.
However, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 171c, 171d,
or 12027, such persons are not peace officers for purposes of
such sections except when designated by local ordinance or, if
the local agency is not authorized to act by ordinance, by reso-
lution, either individually or by class, as peace officers for such
purposes.
   (11) Special officers of the Department of Airports of the
City of Los Angeles commissioned by the city police commis-
sion.
3086                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  TQ^ ^ 5 9 7

   (12) The chief of toll services, captains, lieutenants, and
sergeants employed by the Department of Public Works on
vehicular crossings pursuant to Chapter 13 (commencing with
Section 23250) of Division 11 of the Vehicle Code.
   (13) Persons employed as members of a security patrol of a
school district pursuant to Section 15832 of the Education
Code.
   (b) The authority of any such peace officer extends to any
place in the state as to a public offense committed or which
there is probable cause to believe has been committed with re-
spect to persons or property the protection of which is the
immediate duty of such officer.
   SEC. 2. I t is the intent of the Legislature that the changes
effected by this legislation shall serve only to define peace
officers, the extent of their jurisdiction, and the nature and
scope of their authority, powers and duties, and that there
be no change in the status of individual peace officers or classes
of peace officers for purposes of retirement, workmen's com-
pensation or similar injury or death benefits, or other employee
benefits.

                         CHAPTER 1507
       An act to amend Section 68203 of the         Government
                    Code, relating to judges.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 68203 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  68203. In addition to the increase provided under this
section on September 1, 1968, on the effective date of the 1969
amendments to this section and on September 1 of each year
thereafter the salary of each justice and judge named in
Sections 68200 to 68202, inclusive, shall be increased by that
amount which is produced by multiplying the then current
salary of each justice or judge by the percentage by which
the figure representing the California consumer price index as
compiled and reported by the California Department of In-
dustrial Relations has increased in the previous calendar year.


                         CHAPTER 1508
An act to amend Section 23731a of, and to add Section 23774
  to, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to the Bank
  and Corporation Tax Law, to take effect immediately, tax
  levy.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
                      1969
Ch. 1509]                    REGULAR SESSION                       3Q87

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 23731a of the Eevenue and Taxation
 Code is amended to read:
   23731a. The tax imposed under Section 23731 shall apply-
in the case of any organization which is exempt, except as pro-
vided in this article, from taxation under this part by reason
of Sections 23701a, 23701d, 23701e or 23701n. Such taxes
shall also apply to an organization described in Section 23701b.
if the income is payable to an organization which itself is
subject to the tax imposed under Section 23731 or to a church
or to a convention or association of churches.
   SEC. 2. Section 23774 is added to the Eevenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   23774. Every organization exempt from filing an annual
information return by reason of subdivisions (a), (b), (c)
and (d) of Section 23772, may be required to file an annual
statement on or before the 15th day of the fifth calendar
month following the close of the income year setting forth in
such a manner as may be required by the Franchise Tax Board
the following information: the name and address of the or-
ganization, its major activities, its sources of income and the
section of the Internal Eevenue Code under which it is
exempt.
   SEC. 3. The provisions of this act effecting changes in the
computation of taxes shall apply to income years beginning on
and after January 1, 1970. The other provisions shall apply
on and after the effective date of this act.
   SEC. 4. Section 1 of this act provides for a tax levy within
the meaning of Article I V of the Constitution and shall go
into immediate effect.

                         C H A P T B E 1509
An act to amend Section 15606 of the Government Code, to
  amend Sections 4336 and 4337 of, and to repeal Chapter 3
  (commencing with Section 3475) of Part 6 of Division 1 of,
  and Article 3 (commencing with Section 4250) of Chapter
  3 of Part 7 of Division 1 of, the Revenue and Taxation Code,
  and to amend Section 2 of Chapter 771 of the Statutes of
  the 1968 Regular Session of the Legislature, relating to
  property taxes.
         [Approved by Governor September     4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State - September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 15606 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   15606. The State Board of Equalization shall:
   (a) Prescribe rules for its own government and for the
transaction of its business.
3088               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo^ 2 5 0 9

    (b) Keep a record of all its proceedings.
    (c) Prescribe rules and regulations to govern local boards of
 equalization when equalizing, and assessors when assessing.
    (d) Prescribe and enforce the use of all forms for the assess-
ment of property for taxation.
    (e) Prepare and issue instructions to assessors designed to
 promote uniformity throughout the state and its local taxing
 jurisdictions in the assessment of property for the purposes of
 taxation. It may adapt such instructions to varying local cir-
 cumstances and to differences in the character and conditions
 of property subject to taxation as in its judgment is necessary
 to attain such uniformity.
    (f) Subdivisions (c), (d) and (e) in this section shall in-
 clude, but are not limited to, rules, regulations, instructions
 and forms relating to classifications of kinds of property and
 evaluation procedures. All rules and regulations adopted by
 the board pursuant to subdivision (c) shall be adopted, on and
 after January 1, 1968, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter
 4.5 (commencing with Section 11371) of Part 1 of this division.
    The State Board of Equalization shall not prescribe rules
 and regulations to govern local boards of equalization when
 equalizing and assessors when assessing with respect to the
 assessment and equalization of possessory interest until the
lien date in 1971.
    The provisions of this section are mandatory.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 3475) of
P a r t 6 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 3. Article 3 (commencing with Section 4250) of
Chapter 3 of Part 7 of Division 1 of the Revenue and Tax-
ation Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 4336 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   4336. When property is redeemed on which delinquent
taxes have been paid in installments, there shall be credited
on the amount necessary to redeem the total amount of back
taxes previously paid, without an allowance for interest on it.
The credit shall be allowed after computation of the amount
necessary to redeem. If the last payment made of delinquent
taxes in installments was under a provision of law which re-
quires that payments be made on or before April 10th or on
or before April 20th or on or before May 10th in each fiscal
year or which expressly allows quarter-annual payment of
installments, no credit shall be allowed under this section after
five years succeeding April 10th or April 20th or May 10th of
the first fiscal year when no payment was made as required.
   SEC. 5. Section 4337 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   4337. When payment of delinquent taxes in installments
on any property was started under any provision of law and
payment of delinquent taxes in installments on the property
                        1969
Ch. 1510]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3o89

is later started under another provision of law providing for
such payment, or under the same provision of law after de-
fault in payment, there shall be credited on the amount pay-
able the total amount of back taxes paid under the same or
previous provision, without an allowance for interest on it.
This credit is in addition to and not a substitute for the pay-
ment of any part of any installment payable and shall be
allowed after the first installment is paid. If the last payment
made of delinquent taxes in installments was under a provision
of law which requires that payments be made on or before
April 10th or on or before April 20th or on or before May 10th
in each fiscal year or which expressly allows quarter-annual
payment of installments, no credit shall be allowed under this
section after five years succeeding April 10th or April 20th
or May 10th of the first fiscal year when no payment was made
as required.
   SEC. 6. Section 2 of Chapter 771 of the Statutes of the
1968 Regular Session of the Legislature is amended to read:
   Sec. 2. In amending Section 15606 of the Government
Code by this act, the Legislature declares that rules adopted
relating to the taxability and valuation of possessory interest
in publicly owned land shall be uniform and relate to all pos-
sessory interests, rather than prescribing rules for only one
category of possessory interests. The State Board of Equaliza-
tion is directed between the effective date of the act and Febru-
ary 28, 1971, to develop comprehensive rules relating to all
types of possessory interests, factors which make such interests
subject to taxation and factors relevant to the valuation of
such interests.

                           CHAPTER 1510
An act making an appropriation for a study of                 community
             water supplies, relating to water,
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The sum of sixty-nine thousand eight hun-
dred seventy-five dollars ($69,875) is hereby appropriated from
the General Fund to the State Department of Public Health
in augmentation of Item 160 of the Budget Act of 1969 (Chap-
ter 355, Statutes 1969) to be expended during the 1969-1970
fiscal year for a study of the community water supplies within
the area of Delano, California; provided that the appropria-
tion made by this act shall be available for expenditure only
after the Director of Public Health has certified to the Depart-
ment of Finance that sufficient federal funds are not available
for the study.
3090               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  TQJ^   \§\\

                        CHAPTER 1511
       An act to amend Section 830.3 of the Penal Code,
                   relating to peace officers.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 830.3 of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   830.3. (a) The Deputy Director and the Assistant Direc-
tor of the Department of Justice, the Chief, Assistant Chief,
and special agents of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation, the Chief, Assistant Chief, and narcotics
agents of the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement, and such in-
vestigators who are so designated by the Attorney General,
are peace officers.
   The authority of any such peace officer extends to any place
in the state as to a public offense committed or which there is
probable cause to believe has been committed within the state.
   (b) Any inspector or investigator regularly employed and
paid as such in the office of a district attorney is a peace
officer.
   The authority of any such peace officer extends to any place
in the state:
   (1) As to any public offense committed, or which there is
probable cause to believe has been committed, within the
county which employs him; or
    (2) "Where he has the prior consent of the chief of police,
or person authorized by him to give such consent, if the place
is within a city or of the sheriff, or person authorized by him
to give such consent, if the place is within a county; or
   (3) As to any public offense committed or which there is
probable cause to believe has been committed in his presence,
and with respect to which there is immediate danger to per-
son or property, or of the escape of the perpetrator of such
offense.
   (c) The Director of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control and persons employed by such department for the en-
forcement of the provisions of Division 9 (commencing with
Section 23000) of the Business and Professions Code are peace
officers; provided, that the primary duty of any such peace
officer shall be the enforcement of the laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, as that duty is set forth in Section 25755 of the
Business and Professions Code. Any such peace officer is
further authorized to enforce any penal provision of law while,
in the course of his employment, he is in, on, or about any
premises licensed pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Act.
   (d) The Chief and investigators of the Division of In-
vestigation of the Department of Professional and Vocational
                    196
Ch. 1511]                 9 REGULAR SESSION                 3Q91

Standards are peace officers; provided, that the primary duty
of any such peace officer shall be the enforcement of the law
as that duty is set forth in Section 160 of the Business and
Professions Code.
   (e) Members of the "Wildlife Protection Branch of the De-
partment of Fish and Game deputized pursuant to Section
856 of the Fish and Game Code, deputies appointed pursuant
to Section 851 of such code, and county fish and game wardens
appointed pursuant to Section 875 of such code are peace of-
ficers; provided, that the primary duty of deputized members
of the "Wildlife Protection Branch, and the exclusive duty, ex-
cept as provided in Section 1509.7 of the Military and Veterans
Code, of any other peace officer listed in this subdivision, shall
be the enforcement of the provisions of the Fish and Game
Code, as such duties are set forth in Sections 856, 851 and 878,
respectively, of such code.
   (f) The State Forester and such employees or classes of-
employees of the Division of Forestry of the Department of
Conservation and voluntary fire wardens as are designated
by him pursuant to Section 4156 of the Public Resources
Code are peace officers; provided, that the primary duty of
any such peace officer shall be the enforcement of the law as
that duty is set forth in Section 4156 of such code.
   (g) Officers and employees of the Department of Motor
Vehicles designated in Section 1655 of the Vehicle Code are
peace officers; provided, that the primary duty of any such
peace officer shall be the enforcement of the law as that duty
is set forth in Section 1655 of such code.
   (h) The secretary, chief investigator, and racetrack inves-
tigators of the California Horse Racing Board are peace
officers; provided, that the primary duty of any such peace
officer shall be the enforcement of the provisions of Chapter 4
 (commencing with Section 19400) of Division 8 of the Business
and Professions Code and Chapter 10 (commencing with Sec-
tion 330) of Title 9 of Part 1 of the Penal Code. Any such
peace officer is further authorized to enforce any penal pro-
vision of law while, in the course of his employment, he is
in, on, or about any horseracmg enclosure licensed pursuant
to the Horse Racing Law.
   (i) Police officers of a regional park district, appointed or
employed pursuant to Section 5561 of the Public Resources
Code, and officers and employees of the Department of Parks
and Recreation designated by the director pursuant to Sec-
tion 5008 of such code are peace officers; provided, that the
primary duty of any such peace officer shall be the enforcement
of the law as such duties are set forth in Sections 5561
and 5008, respectively, of such code.
   (j) Members of the University of California police depart-
ment appointed pursuant to Section 23501 of the Education
Code are peace officers; provided, that the primary duty of any
such peace officer shall be the enforcement of the law as
that duty is set forth in Section 23501 of the Education Code.
3092               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQ^   1§H

      (k) Policemen of the San Francisco Port Authority are
 peace officers; provided, that the primary duty of any such
  peace officer shall be the enforcement of the laws relating to
  the San Francisco Harbor, as that duty is set forth in Part 1
  (commencing with Section 1690) of Division 6 of the Harbors
  and Navigation Code.
      (I) The State Fire Marshal and assistant or deputy state
  fire marshals appointed pursuant to Section 13103 of the
  Health and Safety Code are peace officers; provided that the
  primary duty of any such peace officer shall be the enforce-
 ment of the law as that duty is set forth in Section 13104
  of such code.
      (m) Members of an arson-investigating unit, regularly em-
 ployed and paid as such, of a fire protection agency of the
 state, of a county, city, or district, and members of a fire
 department of a local agency regularly paid and emplo3^ed
 as such, are peace officers; provided, that the primary duty
 of arson investigators shall be the detection and apprehension
 of persons who have violated or who are suspected of having
 violated any fire law, and the exclusive duty, except as pro-
 vided in Section 1509.7 of the Military and Veterans Code, of
 fire department members other than arson investigators when
 acting as peace officers shall be the enforcement of laws re-
 lating to fire prevention and fire suppression. Notwithstanding
 the provisions of Section 171c, 171 d, 12027, or 12031, members
 of fire departments other than arson investigators are not peace
 officers for purposes of such sections except when designated
 as peace officers for such purposes by local ordinance or, if the
 local agency is not authorized to act by ordinance, by resolu-
 tion.
     (n) The Chief and such inspectors of the Bureau of Food
 and Drug Inspections as are designated by him pursuant to
subdivision (a) of Section 216 of the Health and Safety Code
are peace officers; provided, that the exclusive duty of any
such peace officer shall be the enforcement of the law as that
duty is set forth in Section 216 of such code.
     (o) Persons designated by a local agency as park rangers,
and regularly employed and paid as such, are peace officers;
provided, that the primary duty of any such peace officer shall
be the protection of park property and preservation of the
peace therein. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 171c,
171d, 12027, or 12031, such park rangers are not peace officers
for purposes of such sections except when designated as peace
officers for such purposes by local ordinance or, if the local
agency is not authorized to act by ordinance, by resolution.
     (p) The authority of any peace officer listed in subdivisions
 (c) through (o), inclusive, extends to any place in the state;
provided, that except as otherwise provided in this section,
Section 830.6, or Section 1509.7 of the Military and Veterans
Code, any such peace officer shall be deemed a peace officer
                     1969
Ch. 15121                   REGULAR SESSION                    3093

 only for purposes of his primary duty, and shall not act as a
peace officer in enforcing any other law except:
    (1) When in pursuit of any offender or suspected offender;
or
    (2) To make arrests for crimes committed, or which there
is probable cause to believe have been committed, in his pres-
ence while he is in the course of his employment; or
    (3) When, while in uniform, such officer is requested, as
a peace officer, to render such assistance as is appropriate
under the circumstances to the person making such request,
or to act upon his complaint, in the event that no peace
officer otherwise authorized to act in such circumstances is
apparently and immediately available and capable of render-
ing such assistance or taking such action.
   SEC. 2. I t is the intent of the Legislature that the changes
effected by this legislation shall serve only to define peace
officers, the extent of their jurisdiction, and the nature and
scope of their authority, powers and duties, and that there
be no change in the status of individual peace officers or
classes of peace officers for purposes of retirement, workmen's
compensation or similar injury or death benefits, or other em-
ployee benefits. I t is also the intent of the Legislature that the
inclusion of the members of a fire department of a local agency,
regularly paid and employed as such, within the definition of
peace officers shall not make Section 3508 of the Government
Code applicable to them to any greater extent than it was ap-
plicable to them prior to the effective date of this act.


                        CHAPTER 1512
An act to add Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 3600) to
  Title 1 of, and to repeal Section 8923 of, the Government
  Code, relating to conflicts of interest.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary ol State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 3600)
is added to Title 1 of the Government Code, to read:

       DIVISION 4.5.        CONFLICTS OF I N T E R E S T
               CHAPTER 1.      GENERAL PROVISIONS

  3600. The Legislature finds and declares as follows:
   (a) The people have a right to expect from their elected
and appointed representatives at all levels of government as-
surances of the utmost in integrity, honesty and fairness in
their dealings;
3094               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Qh    \^\2

     (b) The people further have a right to be assured to the
 fullest extent possible that the private financial dealings of
 their governmental representatives, and of candidates for
 those offices, present no conflict of interest between the public
 trust and private gain; and
     (c) The representative form of government is founded
 upon a belief that those entrusted with the offices of govern-
 ment have nothing to fear from full public disclosure of their
 financial and business holdings, provided those officials deal
 honestly and fairly with the people.
    To these ends, the Legislature enacts this division. The
 Legislature hereby intends to sustain, to the extent necessary,
 public confidence in government at all levels, by assuring the
 people of the impartiality and honesty of their officials in all
 governmental transactions and decisions.
    The provisions of this division are to be construed liberally,
 to the end that the public interest be fully protected.
    3601. As used in this division, the term "public agency"
 means the state, a city, a county, a city and county, or a dis-
 trict, or any subdivision, department, board, commission, body
 or agency of the foregoing; and includes any public corpora-
 tion or public authority. The term "public agency" does not
 include a commission or board the functions of which are
 purely advisory in nature.
    3602. As used in this division, the term "corporation"
 does not include a charitable corporation which qualifies for
 exemption from the corporation tax under Section 23701d of
 the Eevenue and Taxation Code.
    3603. As used in this division, the term "investments"
means real property held for income or gain, and does not
include a home or property used primarily for personal or
recreational purposes.
    3604. As used in this division, the term "ownership of
shares" and the term "investments," respectively, include
shares and investments owned by either spouse or by a minor
child thereof, by a corporation in which the ownership of
shares exceeds 25 percent, or by a trust under which either
spouse, or a minor child thereof, is trustor if the trust is
revocable, is a beneficiary, or holds a reversionary interest.
    3605. As used in this division, "public officer" means a
Member of the Legislature, a Secretary of the Governor, the
Chief Clerk and the Sergeant at Arms of the Assembly, the
Secretary and the Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, an ad-
ministrative aide or committee consultant of the Legislature,
a constitutional officer, and any other officer of a public agency;
and includes civil servants in a public agency who are classi-
fied as career executives, and the appointive or civil servant
employee of the highest class or grade in each department,
bureau, division, or other administrative subdivision of a
public agency, as defined in regulations adopted by the public
agency, but does not include other civil servants in a public
agency.
                     1969
Ch. 1512]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3095

   3606. As used in this division, the term "business e n t i t y "
includes any partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship
or any other corporate or noncorporate enterprise, other than
a charitable corporation described in Section 3602.
   3607. To the extent that any provision of this division im-
poses stricter limitations on the disclosure of ownership of
shares in a corporation, or the disclosure of political contribu-
tions, than provided elsewhere with regard to particular pub-
lic offices or public agencies, the provisions of this division
shall prevail.
   To the extent that any other provision of law imposes stricter
limitations on the disclosure of ownership of shares in a cor-
poration, or the disclosure of political contributions, with
regard to particular public offices or public agencies, than pro-
vided in this division, such provision of law shall prevail.

       CHAPTER 2.    DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS

    3700. Prior to the 15th of April of each year, every public
 officer shall file, as a public record, a statement describing the
nature and extent of his investments, including the ownership
 of shares in any corporation or the ownership of a financial
interest in any business entity, which is subject to regulation
by any state or local public agency, if such investment is in
excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) in value at the time of
the statement.
    3701. Any person who filed a statement under Section 3700
in the preceding year may comply with the requirements of
Section 3700 by filing a supplemental statement listing only
the changes in the nature, including the extent of his invest-
ments and ownership of shares in any corporation or the own-
ership of a financial interest in any business entity, or stating
that no changes occurred if such is the case.
    3702. Bach candidate as defined in Section 3753 for state
or local public office, within 10 days after he files his declara-
tion of candidacy or declaration of acceptance, shall file, as a
public record, a statement identical to the statement required
by Section 3700.
    3703. Candidates and elected officials required to file state-
ments under this chapter shall file in the same place specified
in Section 6550 of the Elections Code for the filing of nomina-
tion papers. Other state officials and employees required to file
statements under this chapter shall file with the Secretary of
State. Other local officials and employees required to file state-
ments under this chapter shall file with the county clerk in the
county in which they reside.
   3704. Any person who violates a provision of this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor, and any person who violates a pro-
vision of this chapter with the knowledge of the unlawfulness
of such act or omission is guilty of a felony.
3096              STATUTES O F CALIFOKNIA               [QJJ 1 5 1 2

            CHAPTER 3.     POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS

   3750. Bach candidate for state or local public office, and
each political committee supporting such candidate, shall file,
as a public record, two cumulative statements naming each
person or organization from whom a contribution or contribu-
tions have been received that total more than five hundred
dollars ($500) and that have been or may be expended on
behalf of his campaign, together with the specific amounts
contributed by each person or organization.
   Statements for candidates for state office shall be filed with
the Secretary of State, and statements for candidates for local
office shall be filed with the county clerk of the county in which
the candidate resides.
   3751. Statements required under Section 3750 shall be filed
at the following times:
    (a) Between 20 and 25 days prior to the election.
    (b) Between 30 and 35 days after the election.
   3752. A statement required under subdivision (b) of Sec-
tion 3751 may be combined with a campaign statement as de-
fined in Section 11503 of the Elections Code.
   3753. As used in this chapter:
    (a) The term "contribution" means a gift, subscription,
loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value and
includes a contract, promise, or agreement, whether or not
legally enforceable, to make a contribution. The term "contri-
bution" includes the services of an employee donated by an
employer, in which case the contribution shall be listed in the
name of the employer.
    (b) The term "expenditure" means a payment, distribu-
tion, loan, advance, deposit, or gift of money or anything of
value, and includes a contract, promise, or agreement, whether
or not legally enforceable, to make an expenditure.
    (c) The term "political committee" means any committee,
association, or organization which accepts contributions or
makes expenditures for the purpose of influencing or attempt-
ing to influence the election of candidates, or any duly author-
ized committee or subcommittee of a political party whether
national, state, or local.
   The term "political committee" does not include any com-
mittee formed by a business corporation or enterprise, or group
of business corporations or enterprises, which regularly solicits
political contributions from officers or employees and which
makes such contributions available to political candidates on
a bipartisan basis, provided that the amounts contributed by
it to each political candidate shall be set forth by the candi-
date in his statements required under Section 3751.
    (d) The term " c a n d i d a t e " means any person who seeks
nomination or election to a state, county, judicial, or district
office, or to a municipal office in a general law or chartered
city, at any election or primary conducted within this state.
                        1969
Ch. 1513]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3097

' ' Candidate'' also includes persons seeking election to a county-
central committee at the direct primary election.
    3754. Any person who violates a provision of this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor and any person who violates a pro-
vision of this chapter with the knowledge of the unlawfulness
of such act or omission is guilty of a felony.
    SEC. 2. Section 8923 of the Government Code is repealed.


                           CHAPTER 1513
An act to amend Sections 1164 and 1165 of, to add Sections
  1162 and 1163 to, and to repeal Sections 1162 and 1163 of,
  the Education Code, relating to school district governing
  boards.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1162 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 1162 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   1162. "Whenever a vacancy occurs, the county superintend-
ent of schools having jurisdiction shall call a special election
to elect a successor to serve during the remainder of the term
in which the vacancy occurs. The special election shall be con-
ducted no later than the 120th day after the vacancy occurs.
The election shall be called and conducted in as nearly the
same manner as practicable as other governing board member
elections.
   SEC. 3. Section 1163 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 1163 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   1163. Whenever a vacancy occurs within four months of a
regularly scheduled election for the governing board in which
the vacancy occurs, the special election shall be held at the
same time as and shall be consolidated with that regularly
scheduled election.
   Whenever a vacancy in a position on a governing board
occurs within four months of the end of the term of that
position, there shall be no election to fill the position. The
position shall remain vacant until the person elected to serve
during the succeeding term takes office.
   SEC. 5. Section 1164 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   1164. If for any reason vacancies should occur in a major-
ity of the offices on any school district governing board, the
president of the county board of education having jurisdiction
may appoint members of the county board of education to the
school district governing board until new members of the gov-
erning board are elected.
3098                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Ch. 1514

  SEC. 6. Section 1165 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
  1165. Whenever any of the offices on any school district
governing board is vacant, the remaining governing board
member or members, if any, and any governing board member
or members elected to fill the vacancies, who have qualified,
shall have all the powers and perform all the duties of the
governing board.

                         C H A P T E R 1514
An act to amend Section 987b of the Penal Code, relating to
         defense of persons unable to afford counsel.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 987b of the Penal Code is amended to
read:
   987b. (a) Prom any state moneys made available to it for
such purpose, the Department of Finance shall, pursuant to
this section, pay to the counties an amount not to exceed 10
percent of the amounts actually expended by the counties in
providing counsel in accordance with the law whether by pub-
lic defender, assigned counsel, or both, for persons charged
with violations of state criminal law or involuntarily detained
under the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act, Division 5 (commenc-
ing with Section 5000) of the Welfare and Institutions Code,
who desire, but are unable to afford, counsel.
   (b) Application for payment shall be made in such manner
and at such times as prescribed by the Department of Finance
and the department may adopt rules necessary or appropriate
to carry out the purposes of this section.


                         C H A P T E R 1515
        An act directing the transfer of state       property.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Director of General Services is hereby
authorized and directed to quitclaim to the City of Fresno,
at no cost to the city, all interests of the state in that portion
of land adjacent to the Fresno Air Terminal in Section 20,
Township 13 South, Range 21 East, Mount Diablo base and
meridian that was formerly owned by the United States of
                     1969
Ch. 1517T                   REGULAR SESSION                    3099

America, given to the State of California for use by Fresno
State College, and has been declared surplus, being some 352.5
acres, more or less, upon condition the land be used for public
purposes.

                        CHAPTER 1516
An act to amend Section 20017.8 of the Government Code,
     relating to Public Employees' Retirement System.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary ot State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20017.8 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   20017.8. ' ' Law enforcement member'' also includes persons
employed by the state to perform lifeguard services and whose
principal duties consist of active protection, rescue, and ren-
dition of aid or assistance to persons injured or imperiled at
beaches and lakes, streams, dams, reservoirs, or other bodies of
open water, but not including swimming pools, and including
members employed to perform duties now performed under
the titles of "district aquatic supervisor," "lifeguard super-
visor," and "lifeguard" or equivalent successor classes, other
than persons employed under such titles on a seasonal basis,
but excluding clerical, maintenance personnel, and others who
do not fall within the scope of active lifeguarding or life-
saving services as described in this section even though such
persons are subject to occasional call or are occasionally
called upon to perform duties within the scope of active life-
guarding or lif esaving.

                        CHAPTER 1517
An act to add Section 488 to the Insurance Code, relating to
     persons operating motor vehicles for compensation.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 488 is added to the Insurance Code, to
read:
   488. No insurer shall in issuing or renewing a private pas-
senger automobile insurance policy increase the premium on
such policy for the reason that the insured or applicant for
insurance has been arrested, cited, or convicted for traffic vio-
lations committed while operating a motor vehicle for com-
pensation during the hours of his employment if, with respect
to the arrest, citation, or conviction, the employer of the in-
3100               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   mfc 15±g

sured or applicant has submitted to the insurer a written
declaration made by the employer under penalty of perjury
that the applicant or insured was, at such time, operating a
motor vehicle for compensation during the hours of his em-
ployment.
   This section does not apply to any insured or applicant for
insurance arrested, cited, or convicted of any of the following:
   (a) Homicide or assault arising out of the operation of a
motor vehicle for compensation during the hours of employ-
ment.
   (b) A violation while operating a motor vehicle for com-
pensation during the hours of employment of any of the fol-
lowing sections or section subdivisions: subdivision (a) of
14601, subdivision (a) of 14601.1, 20001, 20002, subdivision
 (a) of 20008, 23101, 23101.5, subdivision (a) of 23102, sub-
division (a) of 23102.5, 23103, 23104, 23105, 23106, or 23108,
of the Vehicle Code.
   This section shall not apply to any person insured under the
California assigned risk plan prescribed by Article 4 (com-
mencing with Section 11620), Chapter 1, Part 3, Division 2
of this code.

                         CHAPTER 1518
An act to amend Section 17503 of the Education Code, relat-
         ing to apportionments of State School Fund.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17503 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   17503. For purposes of this section:
   (a) "Salaries of classroom teachers" and " t e a c h e r " shall
have the same meanings as prescribed by Section 17200 of this
code provided, however that the cost of all health and welfare
benefits provided to the teachers by the school district shall
be included within the meaning of salaries of classroom teach-
ers.
   (b) "Current expense of education" means the gross total
expended (not reduced by estimated income or estimated fed-
eral and state apportionments) for the purposes classified in
the final budget of a school district (except one which, during
the preceding fiscal year, had less than 101 units of average
daily attendance) submitted to and approved by the county
superintendent of schools pursuant to Section 20651 of this
code for administration, instruction (including salaries and
other expense), auxiliary services, school plant (including
operation and maintenance), and fixed charges. "Current ex-
pense of education" shall not include those purposes classified
                     1969
Ch. 1518]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3101

as transportation of pupils, food service, community service,
capital outlay, state school building loan repayment; and
shall not include the amount expended pursuant to any lease
agreement for plant and equipment or the amount expended
from funds received from the federal government pursuant
to the "Economic Opportunity Act of 1964" or any exten-
sion of such act of Congress.
   There shall be expended during each fiscal year for pay-
ment of salaries of classroom teachers:
    (a) By an elementary school district, sixty percent (60%)
of the district's current expense of education.
    (b) By a high school district, fifty percent (50%) of the
district's current expense of education.
    (c) By a junior college district, fifty percent (50%) of the
district's current expense of education.
   (d) By a unified school district, fifty-five percent (55%)
of the district's current expense of education.
   If the Superintendent of Public Instruction determines that
a school district has not expended the applicable percentage
of current expense of education for the payment of salaries
of classroom teachers during the preceding fiscal year, he
shall, in apportionments made to the school district from the
State School Fund after April 15 of the current fiscal year,
designate an amount of such apportionment or apportionments
equal to the apparent deficiency in district expenditures. Any
amount so designated by the Superintendent of Public In-
struction shall be deposited in the county treasury to the credit
of the school district, but shall be unavailable for expenditure
by the district pending the determination to be made by the
Superintendent of Public Instruction on any application for
exemption which may be submitted to the Superintendent of
Public Instruction. In the event it appears to the governing
board of a school district that the application of the preceding
paragraphs of this section during a fiscal year results in serious
hardship to the district, or in the payment of salaries of class-
room teachers in excess of the salaries of classroom teachers
paid by other districts of comparable type and functioning
under comparable conditions, the board may, with the written
approval of the county superintendent of schools having juris-
diction over the district apply to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction in writing not later than September 15th of the
succeeding fiscal year for exemption from the requirements
of the preceding paragraphs of this section for the fiscal year
on account of which the application is made. Upon receipt of
such application, duly approved, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall grant the district exemption for any amount
that is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000), and if the
amount is one thousand dollars ($1,000), or greater may grant
the district exemption, to the extent deemed necessary by him,
from such requirements for the fiscal year on account of which
the application is made. If such exemption is granted the desig-
3102               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [ Q ^ 1519

nated moneys shall be immediately available for expenditure
by the school district governing board. If no application for
exemption is made or exemption is denied, the Superintendent
of Publie Instruction shall order the designated amount or
amount not exempted to be added to the amounts to be ex-
pended for salaries of classroom teachers during the next fiscal
year.
  The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall enforce the
requirements prescribed by this section, and may adopt neces-
sary rules and regulations to that end. He may require the
submission to him, during the school year, by school district
governing boards and county superintendents of schools, of
such reports and information as may be necessary to carry out
the provisions of this section.


                        CHAPTER 1519
An act to amend Sections 321, 322, 323, 324, and 325 of, to
  add Section 321.5 to, and to add Article 5.5 (commencing
  with Section 17521) to Chapter 2 of Division 14 of, the Edu-
  cation Code, relating to public school employment.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.3

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

     SECTION 1. Section 321 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
     321. As used in this article
     (a) "School district" does not include an elementary school
district with less than one hundred one (101) units of average
daily attendance, a high school district with less than three
hundred one (301) units of average daily attendance, or a
junior college district.
     (b) "Full-time equivalent classroom teacher" means an em-
ployee of a school district, employed in a position requiring
certification qualifications and whose duties require him to
teach pupils in the schools of that district in regular day
classes for the full time for which he is employed during the
regular schoolday. For purposes of this section, a "full-time
equivalent classroom teacher" shall also mean an inschool
librarian or a full-time counselor assigned full-time student
counseling duties.
     (c) "Full-time equivalent employees in nonteaching func-
t i o n s " mean all employees other than those defined in sub-
division (b).
     (d) "Full-time certificated nonteaching employees" means
all persons holding positions requiring certification qualifica-
tions, but who do not come within the meaning of subdivi-
sion (b).
Ch. 1519]           1969 KEGULAR SESSION                   3103

   (e) "Classification" means one of the classifications speci-
fied in Section 323.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 321.5 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   321.5. For the purposes of this article, a "full-time equiva-
lent classroom teacher," a "full-time equivalent employee in
nonteaching functions," and a "full-time certificated non-
teaching employee," as defined in Section 321, shall not in-
clude an employee of a school district employed in connection
with a junior college maintained by the school district.
   SEC. 2. Section 322 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   322. On or before December of each even-numbered year,
each school district shall submit to the Superintendent of
Public Instruction, on forms that he shall provide and in
accordance with regulations which he shall adopt, a report
containing all of the following information as of the single
date specified by the Superintendent of Public Instruction:
   (a) The number of full-time equivalent classroom teachers
employed by the district.
   (b) The number of full-time equivalent employees in non-
teaching functions employed by the district.
   (c) The number of full-time certificated nonteaching em-
ployees employed by the district.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 323 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   323. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall place
all districts in one of the following classifications:
   (1) Elementary districts not operated by a common admin-
istration.
   (2) High school districts not operated by a common admin-
istration.
   (3) Unified school districts.
   (4) Elementary and high school districts under one com-
mon administration.
   SEC. 3. Section 324 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   324. (a) After receiving reports pursuant to this article,
the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall, for each
classification, perform the following functions: (1) compare
the figures reported to him for full-time equivalent classroom
teachers with those for full-time equivalent employees in non-
teaching functions and compute a ratio of such nonteaching
employees to each 100 classroom teachers for each classification
of districts, and (2) compare the figures reported to him for
full-time equivalent classroom teachers with those for full-time
certificated nonteaching employees and compute a ratio of such
nonteaching employees to each 100 classroom teachers for each
classification of districts.
   (b) The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall rank
each district in each classification on the basis of the ratio
   9S—1954
3104              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1519

computed pursuant to subdivision (a), from the lowest ratio to
the highest.
   SEC. 3.5. Section 325 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   325. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall pre-
pare a report containing the information computed pursuant
to subdivision (b) of Section 324, and submit it to the Legis-
lature at each regular session. Upon request of the governing
body of a school district, including a district specified in sub-
division (a) of Section 321, he shall transmit a copy of the
report to the district.
   SEC. 5. Article 5.5 (commencing with Section 17521) is
added to Chapter 2 of Division 14 of the Education Code, to
read:
            Article 5.5. Teaching and Nonteaching
                   Certificated Employee Eatios
    17521. It is the intent and purpose of the Legislature to
 improve public education in California by maximizing the
 allocation of existing resources, to discourage the growth of
 bureaucracy in the public schools, and to emphasize the im-
 portance and significance of the classroom teacher.
    17522. For the purposes of this article, a "full-time equiv-
 alent classroom teacher," and a "full-time certificated non-
 teaching employee" shall have the same meaning as specified
 in Section 321.
    17522.5. The provisions of this article shall not be appli-
 cable to a junior college district.
    "Full-time equivalent classroom teachers" and "full-time
 certificated nonteaching employees" employed by a school dis-
trict in connection with a junior college maintained by the
school district shall not be considered for the purposes of this
article.
    17523. For the purposes of this article, the maximum ratios
of full-time certificated nonteaching employees to each 100
full-time equivalent classroom teachers in the various types
of school districts shall be as follows:
    (a) In elementary school districts—9.
    (b) In unified school districts—10.
    (c) In high school districts—11.
    17524. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall, for
each current fiscal year, determine for each school district in
the state, the following:
    (a) The total number of full-time certificated nonteaching
employees.
    (b) The total number of full-time equivalent classroom
teachers.
    (c) The total maximum number of full-time certificated
nonteaching employees which should be employed by the dis-
trict based upon the application of the appropriate ratio pre-
scribed by Section 17523 to the number of full-time equivalent
classroom teachers determined pursuant to subdivision (b).
                        1969
Ch. 15201                      REGULAR SESSION                    3105

   (d) Subtracting the number determined pursuant to sub-
division (c) from the number determined pursuant to sub-
division (a).
   17525. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall de-
termine that portion of the salaries paid full-time certificated
nonteaching employees of a district attributable to state sup-
port other than basic state aid. He shall multiply such amount
by the positive difference, if any, produced by the subtraction
made pursuant to subdivision (d) of Section 17524. He shall
reduce the amount of the final apportionment made to the dis-
trict for the current fiscal year pursuant to Section 17408 by
the product so produced; provided that, no such reduction
shall be made in amounts allowed to the district as basic
state aid.
   17526. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 17525,
reductions in final apportionments shall be made pursuant
thereto only commencing in the 1972-1973 fiscal year and in
each fiscal year thereafter.
   For the 1969-1970 fiscal year, and for each of the two fiscal
years immediately following, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction shall compute the amount by which the final ap-
portionment for any affected school district in the state would
have been reduced pursuant to Section 17525. He shall inform
each affected district of the amount of such reduction compu-
tation, and shall, on or before the 30th legislative day after
the commencement of the regular session of the Legislature
next following the expiration of each such fiscal year, submit
to each house of the Legislature a tabulated report showing the
districts affected and the amount of the reduction computed
for each district.
   17527. For the purposes of this article the Superintendent
of Public Instruction shall require the submission, by school
districts, of such reports at such times and in such form as he
may deem necessary for the effective performance of his
responsibilities.
   17528. Amounts allowable from the State School Fund
but not transferred thereto because of the operation of Sec-
tion 17525 and the provisions of subdivision (b) of Section
17301, shall be held in the General Fund and shall be ex-
pended for public school purposes pursuant to appropriations
thereof enacted by the Legislature.


                       CHAPTER 1520
      An act to add Section 3565.5 to the Elections Code,
                 relating to ballot arguments.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3106               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  TQ^ 1 5 2 1

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3565.5 is added to the Elections Code,
to read:
   3565.5. When the Secretary of State has received the argu-
ments which will be printed in the ballot pamphlet, he shall,
within five days of receipt thereof, send copies of the argu-
ments in favor of the proposition to the authors of the argu-
ments against and copies of the arguments against to the
authors of the arguments in favor. The authors may prepare
and submit rebuttal arguments not exceeding 250 words. In
the case of measures submitted by the Legislature, the rebuttal
arguments must be filed with the Secretary of State not more
than 35 days after the adoption of the measure by the Legisla-
ture. I n the case of initiative or referendum measures, the re-
buttal arguments must be filed with the Secretary of State not
less than 105 days prior to the election in which the measure
will appear.
   Kebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same manner as
the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immedi-
ately follow the direct argument which it seeks to rebut.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become inoperative upon the enact-
ment of Assembly Bill No. 1283.


                        CHAPTEE 1521
An act to amend Section 3123 of the Commercial Code, and to
  amend Sections 6700, 6701, and 18025 of the Government
  Code, relating to state holidays.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 3123 of the Commercial Code is
amended to read:
   3123. Every instrument is payable at the time fixed therein
without grace. When the day of maturity falls upon Sunday,
Saturday or a holiday, the instrument is payable on the next
succeeding business day which is not a Saturday. Where the
day of maturity of the instrument falls on an optional bank
holiday or the instrument would except for the foregoing pro-
vision be payable on an optional bank holiday and it is payable
by or at a banking house or any branch or separate office
thereof, and the particular banking house or branch or separate
office thereof by or at which the instrument is payable is open
for the transaction of business on such optional bank holiday,
the holder of the instrument may at his option present the
instrument for payment at the banking house or branch or
separate office thereof by or at which the instrument is payable
                    1969
Ch 15211                   REGULAR SESSION                 3107

 on the optional bank holiday or on the next succeeding business
 day which is not a Saturday. An instrument payable on de-
mand is not to be presented for payment on Sunday, Saturday,
or a holiday but is to be presented for payment on the next
succeeding business day which is not a Saturday, except that
where the instrument is payable by or at a banking house or
any branch or separate office thereof and the particular bank-
ing house or branch or separate office thereof by or at which
the instrument is payable is open for the transaction of busi-
ness on an optional bank holiday, the holder of the instrument
may at his option present the instrument for payment at the
banking house or branch or separate office thereof by or at
which the instrument is payable on such optional bank holiday
or on the next succeeding business day which is not a Saturday.
For the purpose of this section an optional bank holiday is
 every holiday referred to in Sections 6700 and 6701 of the
Government Code, except the following: January 1st, J u l y
4th, September 9th, known as "Admission D a y , " and Decem-
ber 25th, any Monday following any Sunday on which any
such day falls, the last Monday in May, the first Monday in
September, Good Friday from 12 noon until 3 p.m., the Thurs-
day in November appointed as Thanksgiving Day, and every
Sunday.
   SEC. 2. Section 6700 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   6700. The holidays in this state are:
   (a) Every Sunday.
   (b) January 1st.
   (c) February 12th, known as "Lincoln D a y . "
   (d) The third Monday in February.
   (e) The last Monday in May.
   (f) July 4th.
   (g) First Monday in September.
   (h) September 9th, known as "Admission Day.''
   (i) The second Monday in October, known as "Columbus
Day."
   (j) The fourth Monday in October, known as "Veterans
Day."
   (k) December 25th.
   (l) Good Friday from 12 noon until 3 p.m.
   (m) Every day on which an election is held throughout the
state.
   (n) Every day appointed by the President or Governor for
a public fast, thanksgiving, or holiday.
   Except for the Thursday in November appointed as Thanks-
giving Day, this subdivision shall not apply to a city, county
or district unless made applicable by charter, or by ordinance
or resolution of the governing body thereof.
   SEC. 3. Section 6701 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
3108               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [QJj J522

   6701. If January 1st, February 12th, July 4th, September
9th, or December 25th falls upon a Sunday, the Monday fol-
lowing is a holiday.
  SEC. 4. Section 18025 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   18025. All employees shall be entitled to the following
holidays: the first day of January, the 12th day of February,
the third Monday in February, the last Monday in May, the
fourth day of July, the first Monday in September, the ninth
day of September, the second Monday in October, the fourth
Monday in October, the 25th day of December, every day
on which an election is held throughout the state, and every
day appointed by the Governor of this state for a public fast,
thanksgiving, or holiday.
  When a day herein listed falls on a Sunday, the following
Monday shall be deemed to be the holiday in lieu of the day
observed. Any employee who may be required to work on any
of the holidays herein mentioned, and who does work on any
of said holidays, shall be entitled to be paid compensation
or given compensating time off for such work within the
meaning of this article. For the purpose of computing the
number of hours worked, time during which an employee is
excused from work because of holidays, sick leave, vacation,
or compensating time off, shall be considered as time worked
by the employee.
   SEC. 5. This act shall become operative January 1, 1971.


                        C H A P T E E 1522
   An act to amend Section 26243 of the Health and Safety
            Code, relating to misbranding of drugs.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 26243 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
   26243. (a) A drug shall be deemed to be misbranded unless
its label bears, to the exclusion of any other nonproprietary
name (except the applicable systematic chemical name or the
chemical formula), (1) the established name of the drug, if
such there be; and. (2) in case it is fabricated from two or
more ingredients, the established name and quantity of each
active ingredient, including the kind and quantity or propor-
tion of any alcohol, and also including, whether active or not,
the established name and quantity or proportion of any bro-
mides, ether, chloroform, acetanilid, acetphenetidin, antipyrine,
atropine, hyoscine, hyoscyamine, codeine, arsenic, digitalis,
digitalis glucosides, mercury, ouabain, strophanthin, strych-
                      1969
Ch. 1523]                    REGULAR SESSION                          3JQ9

 nine, barbituric acid, or any derivative or preparation of any
 such substances, contained therein. The requirement for stating
 the quantity of the active ingredients, including the quantity
 of those specifically named in this paragraph, shall apply to
 all drugs, including prescription drugs; provided that for non-
 prescription drugs, and except as to the quantity of the in-
 gredients specifically named in this paragraph which must be
 stated on the label, this requirement shall be satisfied by either
 stating such quantities on the label of the drug or by filing a
 statement of such quantities with the State Department of
 Public Health. When such a statement is filed with the depart-
 ment, it shall make the information provided therein available
 to local public and private health agencies, poison control
 centers, licentiates of the healing arts, the California State
Board of Pharmacy, and others, to promote the purposes of
this requirement. The department may exempt any nonpre-
scription drug from the requirement of stating the quantity
of the active ingredients, other than those specifically named
in this paragraph, upon a showing by the applicant through
evidence satisfactory to the department that the granting of
the exemption will not endanger the public health. For any
prescription drug the established name of such drug or ingre-
dient, as the case may be, on such label (and on any labeling
on which a name for such drug or ingredient is used) shall be
printed prominently and in type at least half as large as that
used thereon for any proprietary name or designation for such
drug or ingredient.
   This section shall not apply to any drug shipped by a manu-
facturer or packer to a retailer or wholesaler before the opera-
tive date of this section. Any such drugs so shipped shall
comply with the provisions of this section on and after July
1,1973.
   (b) The department may establish regulations requiring an
applicant for an exemption pursuant to subdivision (a) of
this section to pay a reasonable fee not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100).
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative on July 1, 1970.


                        C H A P T E E 1523
    An act to amend Section 15518 of the Education         Code,
                 relating to school buildings.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section         15518 of   the   Education        Code     is
amended to read:
3110                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQ^ 1 5 2 4

   15518. The governing board of a school district may un-
dertake corrective measures relating to earthquake safety rec-
ommended to the governing board pursuant to Section 15503
in connection with any school building under the jurisdiction
of the governing board without compliance with the proce-
dures otherwise prescribed by Section 15505.
   The maximum rate of tax of any school district for any
school year is hereby increased by such amount as will produce
the amount necessary to have any school buildings examined
as required by Section 15503 and to effect the corrective struc-
tural repairs, reconstruction or replacement relating to earth-
quake safety recommended pursuant to Section 15503, as
shown by the budget of the district for such school year as
finally adopted by the governing board of the district, less any
unencumbered balances remaining at the end of the preceding
school year derived from revenue from the increase in the
rate of tax provided by this section.
   The increase provided by this section and Section 15517
shall not exceed a total increase of ten cents ($0.10) for each
one hundred dollars ($100) of the assessed valuation of prop-
erty within the district in each fiscal year.
   If at the end of any school year, there remains an unen-
cumbered balance derived from the revenue of the increase
in tax rate hereby provided, such balance may be accumulated
until the date specified in this section for the termination of its
effect and shall be used exclusively for expenditures of the
school district for purposes of this section.
   This section shall remain in effect only until July 1, 1975,
and thereafter shall be of no force or effect. This section shall
remain in effect until such date regardless of the repeal or
expiration of Section 15517.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the govern-
ing board shall comply with the provisions of Section 15505
whenever such compliance is necessary to continue the pro-
gram of corrective structural repairs, reconstruction, or re-
placement required pursuant to the provisions of this article.


                          CHAPTER 1524
An act to amend Sections 6871, 6873,_ 6874, and 6874.5 of the
  Education Code, relating to special educational facilities
  and services.
           [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION    1.   Section 6871 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
                     1969
Ch. 1524]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3111

   6871. With the approval of the county superintendent of
schools, any school district having a physically handicapped
minor, mentally retarded minor, severely mentally retarded
minor, or multiply handicapped minor for whom special edu-
cation facilities and services as prescribed by Section 6870
are not available or cannot be reasonably provided, and for
whom the State of California has no appropriate special ed-
ucation facilities and services, shall, and any school district
having an educationally handicapped minor for whom special
education facilities and services as prescribed by Section 6870
are not available or cannot be reasonably provided, and for
whom the State of California has no appropriate special ed-
ucation facilities and services, may, in lieu of establishing and
maintaining the needed special education facilities and serv-
ices at an unreasonable cost to the district, pay to the parent
or guardian of such minor toward the tuition for such minor,
enrolled in a public or private nonsectarian school, institution,
or agency within or outside of California offering the special
education facilities and services made necessary by the minor's
disabilities, an amount not to exceed the sum per unit of aver-
age daily attendance of the regular state apportionment to the
district for the fiscal year in question, the amount allowable
per unit of average daily attendance for the particular cate-
gory under subdivisions (2) and (3) of Section 18102, and
the amount per unit of average daily attendance provided
from revenue derived from district taxation for the current
expense of education of a normal child in the schools of the
district. For purposes of computing the amount per unit of
average daily attendance provided from revenue derived from
district taxation, there shall be excluded amounts produced by
rates levied for special or restricted purposes, such as the
rates levied pursuant to Sections 1822.2, 1825, 16633, 16635,
16645.9, 19443, 19619, 20801 to 20802.8, inclusive, 20806, and
20807, and there shall be included amounts produced by rates
levied for general districtwide current support purposes, in-
cluding the rates levied pursuant to Sections 20808 and 20808.5.
As used in this article '' tuition'' includes the cost to the parent
or guardian of transporting a minor enrolled in a public or pri-
vate nonsectarian school, institution, or agency under this sec-
tion to and from school.
   The provisions of this section shall be applicable as well to
situations where the special educational facilities and services
are available but are an unreasonable distance away from the
home of the minor. The Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion shall adopt rules and regulations to implement the de-
termination of the unreasonableness of such cost and dis-
tance, and any other rules and regulations deemed necessary
by him for the effective administration of this chapter. The
county superintendent of schools shall make a finding as to
the unreasonableness of such cost or distance for the school
districts within his jurisdiction and shall report such findings
3112               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQJj 1 5 2 4

 to'the Superintendent of Public Instruction, who, if he ap-
 proves such findings, shall authorize payments pursuant to
 this section and Sections 6872 and 6873.
    Priority in providing special education facilities and serv-
 ices shall be given to public school, or state-operated, pro-
 grams. State and school district support for an exceptional
 child's education at a private nonsectarian school, institution,
 or agency shall be approved pursuant to this chapter only if
 no publicly operated programs are available to the minor
 within a reasonable distance from his residence, or if such
 programs do not meet the specialized needs of the minor, as
 determined under the procedures established by this chap-
 ter. Priority in approving private nonsectarian schools, insti-
 tutions, or agencies shall be given to the nearest such school,
 institution, or agency from where the parent or guardian of
 the exceptional child resides and which provides training
 and education as defined in Section 6870.
   I n instances where public funds are paid to the parent or
 guardian of a minor pursuant to this section, toward the tui-
tion of such minor enrolled in a private nonsectarian school,
 institution, or agency, the school, institution, or agency en-
rolling such minor shall at the end of each school year sub-
 mit a written progress report on each such minor on forms
provided by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, and
shall forward such forms to the county superintendent of
schools of the county authorizing placement. Such reports
shall be used by the county superintendents of schools to de-
termine continued eligibility for placement and reimburse-
ment under this chapter.
   SEC. 2. Section 6873 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6873. Upon verification of the attendance reported and
the claim submitted, the Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion shall apportion to the school district submitting the
report and the claim of the parent or guardian of such
minor for the tuition in question an amount sufficient to
satisfy the claim but not in excess of the sum per unit of
average daily attendance of the regular state apportionment
to the district for the fiscal year in question and the amount
allowable per unit of average daily attendance for the partic-
ular category under subdivisions (2) and (3) of Section 18102.
In the case of a multiply handicapped minor the amount
apportioned shall not exceed the sum per unit of average daily
attendance of the regular state apportionment to the district
for the fiscal year in question and the amount allowable per
unit of average daily attendance under subsection (f) of sub-
division (3) of Section 18102. The apportionments shall be
made from the funds reserved under the provisions of sub-
division (c) of Section 17303.5 for each fiscal year immedi-
ately following: the fiscal year in which the attendance occurs.
                        1969
Ch. 1525]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3113

   SEC. 3. Section 6874 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   6874. No claim shall be satisfied by the Superintendent of
Public Instruction for the education of an exceptional child
under this chapter unless the school, institution, or agency
which the child will attend meets minimum educational stand-
ards established by the State Board of Education pursuant
to Section 6874.5.
   SEC. 4. Section 6874.5 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
  6874.5. Except as otherwise provided in Section 6874.6, the
State Board of Education shall adopt, by rules and regulations,
minimum educational standards which shall be met by any
school, institution, or agency enrolling an exceptional child
under the provisions of this chapter. Such minimum standards
shall relate solely to the educational program to be offered by
the school, institution, or agency.
   SEC. 5. This act shall become operative on July 1, 1970.


                           CHAPTER 1525

An act to amend Sections 10067 and 10405 of the Agricultural
  Code, relating to slaughter of reacting bovines, making an
  appropriation therefor, and declaring the urgency thereof,
  to take effect immediately.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10067 of the Agricultural Code is
amended to read:
  10067. When an animal is slaughtered pursuant to this
article, the owner shall receive all of the following:
   (a) The proceeds of the sale of the salvage of the animal.
   (b) From the state, one-third of the difference between the
appraised value and the proceeds of the sale of the salvage,
but in no instance to exceed one hundred dollars ($100) for
any grade animal or one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125)
for any purebred animal.
   (c) From the United States, any sum which is authorized to
be paid to him from any appropriation that is made by the
United States to assist in the eradication of tuberculosis in
cattle in this state.
   SEC. 2. Section 10405 of the Agricultural Code is amended
to read:
   10405. Except as otherwise provided in this article, if an
animal in a brucellosis control area is slaughtered pursuant to
this article, or under regulations of the director which are
3114               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQh 1526

made pursuant to this article, the owner shall receive all of
the following:
   (a) The proceeds of the sale of the salvage of the animal.
   (b) Prom the state, one-third of the difference between the
appraised value and the proceeds of the sale of the salvage, but
in no instance to exceed one hundred dollars ($100) for any
grade animal or one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) for
any purebred animal.
   (c) From the United States, any sum which is authorized
to be paid to him from any appropriation made by the United
States to assist in the eradication of brucellosis.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and
shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such
necessity are:
   The present reimbursement to the owner for the slaughter
of a reacting tuberculosis or brucellosis bovine is inadequate to
compensate the owner for his loss and is causing disruption
in the cattle industry which may adversely affect the supply of
meat available to the public.
   SEC. 4. The sum of twenty-eight thousand dollars ($28,000)
is appropriated to the Department of Agriculture from the
General Fund to carry out the provisions of Sections 10067
and 10405 of the Agricultural Code.


                        CHAPTBE 1526
An act to add Part 1 (commencing with Section 16100) to
  Division 4 of Title 2 of, and to amend Section 29100.5 of,
  the Government Code, to amend Sections 219, 255 and 25563
  of, and to add Section 531.5 to, the Revenue and Taxation
  Code, to amend Section 30 of Chapter 1 of the Statutes of the
  1968 First Extraordinary Session of the Legislature, and to
  repeal Section 152 of Chapter 963 of the Statutes of the 1967
  Regular Session of the Legislature, Section 3 of Chapter 927
  of the Statutes of the 1968 Regular Session of the Legisla-
  ture, and Section 31 of Chapter 1 of the Statutes of the 1968
 First Extraordinary Session of the Legislature, relating to
 the support of government, making an appropriation there-
 for, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect im-
 mediately.

         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Part 1 (commencing with Section 16100) is
added to Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to
read:
                     1969
Ch. 1526]                   R E G U L A R SESSION            3115

            PART 1. FUNDS FOR SUBVENTIONS
            CHAPTER 1.      PROPERTY   TAX RELIEF   FUND

   16100. On and after July 1, 1970, one-fourteenth of the
revenue derived pursuant to the Bank and Corporation Tax
Law provided for in P a r t 11 (commencing with Section
23001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code shall
be transferred by the Controller to the Property Tax Relief
Fund, which is hereby continued in existence.
   16101. On or before August 21, 1970, the Controller shall
transfer thirty-four million dollars ($34,000,000) from the
State General F u n d to the Property Tax Relief Fund.
   16102. On or before June 28, 1971, the Controller shall
transfer twenty-one million dollars ($21,000,000) from the
State General F u n d to the Property Tax Relief Fund.
   16103. On or before August 21, 1971, the Controller shall
transfer twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000) from the
State General Fund to the Property Tax Relief Fund.
   16104. On or before June 28, 1972, the Controller shall
transfer eight million dollars ($8,000,000) from the State Gen-
eral F u n d to the Property Tax Relief Fund.
   16105. The money in the Property Tax Relief F u n d is
hereby continuously appropriated to the Controller for the
purpose of making the payments required by this chapter.
   16106. I t is the purpose of this chapter to provide replace-
ment revenues to local government by reason of the repeal or
reduction of the property tax on business inventories.
   16107. (a) Out of the amount appropriated by Section
16105 from the Property Tax Relief Fund, the following
amounts shall be allocated to counties and cities and counties
for property tax relief in the 1969-1970 fiscal year:

  Alameda                                            $3,462,278
  Alpine                                                    772
  Amador                                                 14,813
  Butte                                                 158,449
  Calaveras                                              13,237
  Colusa                                                 56,102
  Contra Costa                                        1,672,007
  Del Norte                                              34,669
  El Dorado                                              47,873
  Fresno                                                910,917
  Glenn                                                  54,998
  Humboldt                                              276,933
  Imperial                                              193,286
  Inyo                                                   14,655
  Kern                                                  651,077
  Kings                                                 172,300
  Lake                                                   13,395
  Lassen                                                 34,299
  Los Angeles                                        19,202,016
3116              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Qh 1526

  Madera                                               94,994
  Marin                                               192,048
  Mariposa                                             11,031
  Mendocino                                            87,891
  Merced                                              208,725
  Modoc                                                35,412
  Mono                                                  4,171
  Monterey                                            402,000
  Napa                                                114,180
  Nevada                                               22,169
  Orange                                            2,413,934
  Placer                                               78,489
  Plumas                                                7,488
  Kiverside                                           682,793
  Sacramento                                        1,039,277
  San Benito                                           33,096
  San Bernardino                                    1,154,201
  San Diego                                         1,699,718
  San Francisco                                     1,956,405
  San Joaquin                                         927,612
  San Luis Obispo                                     111,977
  San Mateo                                         1,246,446
  Santa Barbara                                       329,868
  Santa Clara                                       2,549,673
  Santa Cruz                                          152,847
  Shasta                                              122,121
  Sierra                                                3,900
  Siskiyou                                            101,012
  Solano                                              139,462
  Sonoma                                              304,537
  Stanislaus                                          752,000
  Sutter                                               68,898
  Tehama                                               65,398
  Trinity                                               8,908
  Tulare                                              409,480
  Tuolumne                                             31,028
  Ventura                                             405,386
  Yolo                                                269,506
  Yuba                                                 45,734
   (b) For the 1970-1971 and 1971-1972 fiscal years, the 1969-
1970 base figures provided for in subdivision (a) of this sec-
tion shall be increased by 100 percent for each county and
city and county.
   (c) For the 1972-1973 fiscal year and each fiscal year there-
after, the 1969-1970 base figures provided for in subdivision
 (a) of this section shall be used.
   16108. For the 1970-1971 fiscal year and each fiscal year
thereafter, each county and city and county shall receive the
amount specified for it in Section 16107 adjusted by the
percentage that the bank and corporation tax revenues are
                    1969
Ch. 1526]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3H7

estimated on the first day of July of each year by the Depart-
ment of Finance to increase or decrease when compared to
the base period.
   For purposes of this section, the base period shall be the
1969-1970 fiscal year.
   In the 1971-1972 fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter,
the amount allocated pursuant to Section 16107 shall be
increased or decreased to reflect any overpayments or under-
payments to the various counties and cities and counties as
determined by the actual percentage increase or decrease in
bank and corporation tax revenues during the preceding fiscal
year.
   16109. Seventy-five percent of the amount allocated to each
county or city and county pursuant to Sections 16107 and
16108 shall be allocated on or before August 31st of each year.
The remaining 25 percent shall be allocated on or before the
following April 30th.
   16110. (a) Out of the amount appropriated to the Con-
troller from the Property Tax Belief Fund by Section 16105,
so much as may be necessary shall be allocated in accord-
ance with the terms and conditions set forth in this section
to local taxing authorities which have lost revenue by reason
of the operation of Section 988 of the Eevenue and Taxation
Code.
   (b) Upon, and only upon, application by a local taxing au-
thority, the Controller shall determine the loss occasioned by
the operation of Section 988 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
by multiplying the current tax rate of the local entity times
each one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed valuation attrib-
utable to motion pictures, including the negatives and prints
thereof, and taxable by such local entity and shall pay to the
claimant the amount so computed.
   (c) For the purposes of the computation under subdivision
(b) of this section, the assessed valuation of motion pictures,
including the negatives and prints thereof, taxable by any
claimant local entity shall be the average assessed value of
such property which was taxable by such local entity during
the four-year period including and ending with the 1968-1969
fiscal year.
   (d) Application for the replacement revenues shall be made
on or before September 15th with respect to losses to be occa-
sioned in the fiscal year and payments shall be made on or
before November 1st of the same calendar year.
   SEC. 2. Section 29100.5 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   29100.5. At the time the rate of tax is fixed, cities, school
districts and special districts shall not take into account the
exemption provided for in Section 219 of the Eevenue and
Taxation Code, whether such property appears on the secured
or unsecured roll. On or before September 15th of each year,
the auditor shall compute for each city, district and revenue
3118               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. J526

district wholly or partially within the county which levies taxes
on property, the amount of revenue lost by reason of the par-
tial exemption of business inventories based on the assessed
value of the exempt property reported by the county assessor
pursuant to Section 219 and the tax rate applicable to such
property attributable to the city, district and revenue district
for the fiscal year. The auditor shall, on or before October 1st
of each year, allocate to each such revenue district, city or dis-
trict funds equal to 75 percent of the revenue lost by each such
governmental entity by reason of the partial exemption for
business inventories in such fiscal year. The auditor, on or be-
fore April 30th, shall allocate to each such revenue district,
city or district funds equal to 25 percent of the revenue lost
by each such governmental entity by reason of the partial
exemption for business inventories in such fiscal year.
   SEC. 3. Section 219 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   219. Business inventories shall be assessed for taxation at
the same ratio of assessed to full cash value as the ratio speci-
fied in Section 401. After such property has been so assessed,
30 percent of the assessed value of such property shall be
 exempt from taxation for the 1970-1971 and the 1971-1972
fiscal years, and such exemption shall be indicated on the
 assessment roll. After such property has been so assessed for
the lien date in 1972 and on each lien date thereafter, 15
percent of the assessed value of such property shall be
exempt from taxation, and such exemption shall be indicated
on the assessment roll. The county assessor shall notify the
auditor of the total assessed value of the exempt property
within each city, district and revenue district wholly or par-
tially within the county. The exemption provided for in this
section shall not apply to business inventories assessed as es-
caped property. The board shall prescribe all procedures and
forms required to carry this exemption into effect and to insure
accurate data for reimbursement calculations.
   In carrying out the duties imposed by this section, the board
shall certify to the auditor of each county in which is located
a chartered city which assesses property for city tax purposes,
the ratio which the auditor shall use to factor the county roll
in order to compute the amount of such city's reimbursement.
The ratio certified shall be the same ratio used by the board in
connection with public utility property on the board roll.
   Where a city transfers the assessing and tax collecting func-
tions to the county but continues to assess and collect unse-
cured taxes for one additional year, the county auditor, in
computing the city's reimbursement for the business inventory
exemption, shall factor the exempt inventory value on the
county unsecured roll with tax situs in the city by the ratio
used by the board in the prior year in preparing the board
roll for the city.
                     1969
Ch. 1526]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3119

   SEC. 3.5. Section 255 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   255. Affidavits required for exemptions named in this ar-
ticle, except the veterans' exemption and the homeowner's ex-
 emption, shall be filed with the assessor between the lien date
and 5 o'clock p.m. on March 15. Veterans' exemptions and
affidavits for the homeowner's exemption shall be filed with
the assessor between the lien date and 5 o 'clock p.m. on April
15.
   Affidavits required for classification of vessels as documented
vessels eligible for assessment under Section 227 shall be filed
with the assessor between the lien date and 5 o'clock p.m. on
April 1,
   SEC. 4. Section 531.5 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   531.5. If a business inventories exemption has been incor-
rectly allowed because of erroneous or incorrect information
submitted by the taxpayer or his agent misclassifying as busi-
ness inventories property not includible in "business inven-
tories," as that term is defined in Section 129, an escape
assessment in the amount of the exemption shall be made on
discovery of the error. Interest shall be added to the assessment
at the rate of one-half of 1 percent per month, computed in the
manner provided by Section 506. If the exemption was in-
correctly allowed because of erroneous or incorrect information
submitted by the taxpayer or his agent with knowledge that
such information was erroneous or incorrect, the penalty pro-
vided in Section 504 shall be added to the assessment.
   SEC. 5. Section 25563 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   25563. If the amount of estimated tax with respect to which
a declaration is required under Article 2.5 (commencing with
Section 25441) of this chapter does not exceed one hundred
dollars ($100), or twenty-five dollars ($25) in the case of a
corporation described in subdivision (a) of Section 23153, the
entire amount of the estimated tax shall be due and payable
on or before the 15th day of the sixth month of the income
year. If the amount of estimated tax exceeds one hundred dol-
lars ($100), or twenty-five dollars ($25) in the case of a
corporation described in subdivision (a) of Section 23153, the
amount payable shall be paid in two installments as follows—
   (a) Fifty percent of the estimated tax, but not less than the
minimum tax provided in Section 23153, shall be paid on or
before the 15th day of the sixth month of the income year, and
   (b) Twenty-five percent of the estimated tax shall be paid
on or before the 15th day of the 11th month of the income
year.
   SEC. 6. Section 152 of Chapter 963 of the Statutes of the
1967 Regular Session of the Legislature is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 3 of Chapter 927 of the Statutes of the
1968 Regular Session of the Legislature is repealed.
3120               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [ Q j . 1527

    SEC. 8. Section 30 of Chapter 1 of the Statutes of the 1968
First Extraordinary Session of the Legislature is amended
to read:
    Sec. 30. There is hereby appropriated to the Controller
from the Homeowner's Property Tax Belief F u n d the sum
 of one hundred eighty-three million seven hundred fifty thou-
sand dollars ($183,750,000), and from the State General Fund
a sum sufficient to make the allocations provided for in Sections
 33 and 33.5 of this act.
    SEC. 9. Section 31 of Chapter 1 of the Statutes of the 1968
First Extraordinary Session of the Legislature is repealed.
    SEC. 10. Any funds made available to units of local gov-
ernment pursuant to this act may be used for any purposes for
which such local units could use their property tax revenues.
    SEC. 11. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
the act which can be given effect without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.
    SEC. 12. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 13 of
 this act, the operative effect of the provisions of this act shall
be as follows:
    (a) Section 1 and Sections 6 to 9, inclusive, shall be opera-
tive on and after July 1, 1970.
    (b) Section 3 of this act shall be operative on and after
the lien date in 1970.
    (c) Section 3.5 of this act shall become operative on January
 1, 1970. Sections 2, 4, 5, and 10 of this act shall take effect
immediately.
   SEC. 13. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   I n order to make additional property tax relief available at
the earliest possible time and in order to effect a smooth tran-
sition in the codification of general laws, it is necessary that
this act go into immediate effect.


                        CHAPTER 1527
  An act to add Section 253.5 to the Health and Safety Code.
             relating to crippled children services.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 253.5 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
                        1969
Ch. 1528]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3121

   253.5. I n accordance with applicable regulations of the
United States Children's Bureau, the department and desig-
nated county agencies shall provide a diagnosis for handi-
capped children. Within the limits of available funds, the
department and designated local agencies may accept for diag-
nosis a handicapped child believed to have a severe chronic
disease or severe physical handicap, as determined by the
director, irrespective of whether the child actually has an
eligible medical condition specified in Section 250.5. The de-
partment shall cause a record to be kept listing all condi-
tions diagnosed by the program and shall publish such
information annually, including data on the number and kinds
of diagnosed medical conditions that do not come within the
definition of "handicapped child" as specified in Section
250.5.
   SEC. 2. This act shall become operative July 1, 1970.


                           C H A P T E E 1528
            An act to add Section 171f to the Penal Code,
                    relating to the State Capitol.
            [Approved by Governor September i, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969,]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 171f is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
   171f. No person or group of persons shall willfully and
knowingly -.
   1. Enter or remain within or upon any part of the chamber
of either house of the Legislature unless authorized, pursuant
to rules adopted or permission granted by either such house,
to enter or remain within or upon a part of the chamber of
either such house;
   2. Engage in any conduct within the State Capitol which
disrupts the orderly conduct of official business;
   3. Picket within the State Capitol.
   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor.
   As used in this section, "State Capitol" means the building
which is intended primarily for use of the legislative depart-
ment and situated in the area bounded by 10th, L, 15th, and
N Streets in the City of Sacramento.
   Nothing in this section shall forbid any act of any Member
of the Legislature, or any employee of a Member of the Legis-
lature, any officer or employee of the Legislature or any com-
mittee or subcommittee thereof, or any officer or employee of
either house of the Legislature or any committee or subcom-
mittee thereof, which is performed in the lawful discharge of
his official duties.
3122              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                       [Ch. 1529

   SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that the right
to freedom of speech must be zealously guarded. There are,
however, other fundamental rights which must also be pro-
tected from coercion, intimidation and distracting influences.
These rights include the right of an elector to cast a secret
ballot; the right of the people to freely assemble for the com-
mon good; and the right of people to instruct their repre-
sentatives and to petition the Legislature for redress of
grievances.
   Provision for the protection of the right of the elector has
already been enacted into law. It is the intent of the Legis-
lature in creating this statute to similarly protect the citizen
who wishes to instruct his representatives and petition his
legislators from activities within the Capitol Building which
are inimical to the free and orderly presentation of such in-
struction and to the calm and thoughtful consideration thereof.


                        CHAPTEE 1529
   An act to amend Sections 96, 2922, and 2924 of the Labor
         Code, relating to termination of employment.
         [Approved by Governor September i, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 96 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   96. The Labor Commissioner and his deputies and repre-
sentatives authorized by him in writing may take assign-
ments of:
   (a) Wage claims and incidental expense accounts and ad-
vances.
   (b) Mechanics' and other liens of employees.
   (c) Claims based on "stop orders" for wages and on bonds
for labor.
   (d) Claims for damages for misrepresentations of condi-
tions of employment.
   (e) Claims against employment agencies or their bonds-
men.
   (f) Claims for unreturned bond money of employees.
   (g) Claims for penalties for nonpayment of wages.
   (h) Claims for the return of workmen's tools in the illegal
possession of another person.
   (i) Claims for vacation pay, severance pay, or other com-
pensation supplemental to a wage agreement.
   (j) Awards for workmen's compensation benefits in which
the Workmen's Compensation Appeals Board has found that
the employer has failed to secure payment of compensation
and where the award remains unpaid more than 10 days after
having become final.
                        1969
Ch. 1530]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3123

   (k) Claims for loss of wages as the result of discharge from
employment for one garnishment of wages prior to a final
order or judgment of a court.
   SEC. 2. Section 2922 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   2922. An employment, having no specified term, may be
terminated at the will of either party on notice to the other.
No employer may discharge any employee by reason of the
fact that his earnings have been subjected to garnishment for
any one indebtedness, prior to a final order or judgment of
a court. The wages of an individual whose employment has
been so terminated shall continue until reinstatement if such
termination is found to be in violation of this section; but
such wages shall not continue for more than 30 days. The em-
ployee shall give notice to his employer of his intention to
make such a wage claim within 30 days after being laid off or
discharged and shall file a wage claim with the Labor Com-
missioner within 60 days of being laid off or discharged.. The
Labor Commissioner shall take assignment of wage claims
under this section as provided for in Section 96. Employment
for a specified term means an employment for a period greater
than one month.
   SEC. 3. Section 2924 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   2924. An employment for a specified term may be termi-
nated at any time by the employer in case of any willful breach
of duty by the employee in the course of his employment, or
in case of his habitual neglect of his duty or continued inca-
pacity to perform it. No employer may discharge any employee
by reason of the fact that his earnings have been subjected to
garnishment for one indebtedness, prior to a final order or
judgment of a court. The wages of an individual whose em-
ployment has been so terminated shall continue until rein-
statement if such termination is found to be in violation of this
section; but such wages shall not continue for more than 30
days. The employee shall give notice to his employer of his
intention to make such a wage claim within 30 days after
being laid off or discharged and shall file a wage claim with
the Labor Commissioner within 60 days of being laid off or
discharged.. The Labor Commissioner may take assignment of
wage claims under this section as provided for in Section 96.


                           CHAPTER 1530
        An act to amend Sections 9012 and 9013 of the
             Education Code, relating to schools.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3124               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Ch. 1530

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 9012 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   9012. Except with respect to junior colleges, no publica-
tion of a sectarian, partisan, or denominational character, shall
be distributed, displayed, or used for sectarian, partisan, or
denominational purposes on school premises, but such publica-
tions may be used in school library collections and for legiti-
mate instructional purposes.
   Publications of a sectarian, partisan, or denominational
character may be issued and distributed for sectarian, partisan,
or denominational purposes on the grounds and premises of a
junior college; provided, that such activity is carried on in
a manner which does not impede the orderly conduct of school
classes and programs, and shall be subject to rules and regula-
tions of the governing board. Such rules and regulations shall
include a provision specifying that no publication which ad-
vocates the commission of an unlawful act may be issued or
distributed under this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 9013 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   9013. No bulletin, circular, publication, or article of any
character, whose purpose is to spread propaganda, shall be
distributed or displayed to anyone, or suffered to be distrib-
uted or displayed to anyone, for propaganda purposes on the
school premises during school hours or within one hour before
the time of opening or within one hour after the time of closing
of the school, but such bulletin, circular, publication, or article
may be used in school library collections and for legitimate
instructional purposes.
   During school hours or within one hour before the time of
opening or within one hour after the time of closing of the
school, no bulletin, circular, publication, or article of any
character, the purpose of which is to foster membership in
or subscriptions to the funds of any organization not directly
under the control of the school authorities, shall be distributed
or displayed to anyone or suffered to be distributed or
displayed to anyone on the school premises unless the orga-
nization is a nonpartisan organization, the purpose of such
distribution or display is a nonpartisan purpose, and such dis-
tribution or display has been approved by the state board, or
by the county board of education, or by the governing board
of the school district in which the school is located.
   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to bulletins
or circulars concerning the meetings of organizations issued
by any parent-teacher association or by any organization of
parents formed for the purpose of cooperating with the school
authorities in improving school conditions in the district.
   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply with respect
to junior colleges; provided, that any such otherwise prohibited
                        1969
Ch. 1531]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3125

activity is carried on in a manner which does not impede the
orderly conduct of school classes and programs, and such
activities shall be subject to rules and regulations of the gov-
erning board. Such rules and regulations shall include a provi-
sion specifying that no material which advocates the commis-
sion of an unlawful act may be issued or distributed under
this section.

                           CHAPTER 1531
An act to add Article 4.5 (commencing with Section 9965) to
  Chapter 21 of Division 3 of the Business and Professions
  Code, relating to employment agencies.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Article 4.5 (commencing with Section 9965)
is added to Chapter 21 of Division 3 of the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:

        Article 4.5. Employment Agency Counselors

   9965. A "counselor," as used in this article, means a
natural person who is employed by an employment agency to
interview and refer applicants to prospective employers.
   9965.1. Every counselor shall register with the bureau as
provided in this article.
   9965.2. (a) Every counselor in the employ of an employ-
ment agency on the effective date of this article shall submit
an application for registration to the employment agency
within five days after such effective date. The employment
agency shall file such applications with the bureau within five
 days of the receipt thereof.
   (b) Every counselor entering the employ of an employment
agency after the effective date of this article shall submit
an application for registration to the employment agency
within five days after the commencement of such employment.
The employment agency shall file such applications with the
bureau within five days of the receipt thereof.
   9965.3. The application for registration shall be on a form
approved by the bureau.
   9965.4. The application shall be verified and shall include:
   (a) The full name, residence address, residence telephone
number, date and place of birth, and the social security number
of the counselor.
   (b) A statement listing any and all names used by the coun-
selor, other than the name by which he is currently known,
together with an explanation setting forth the place or places
•where each such name was used, the date or dates of each use
3126                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   TQ^ 1 5 3 2

and a full explanation of the reasons why each such name was
used. If the counselor has never used a name other than that
by which he is currently known, this fact shall be set forth in
the statement.
   (c) The name and address of the employment agency he is
employed by and the date the employment commenced.
   (d) Such other information as may be required by the
bureau.
   9965.5. Each counselor registered under this article shall
notify the bureau in writing within five days if he changes
his employment to another agency.
   9965.6. To be eligible for registration the applicant shall
meet all the following requirements:
   (a) Be of good moral character.
   (b) Be a person whose registration has not been revoked
within three years of the date of making the application.
   9965.7. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article,
the bureau shall register every natural person who is employed
as a counselor on the effective date of this article if he makes
application as provided in subdivision (a) of Section 9965.2.
   9965.8. After a hearing the bureau may refuse to register a
counselor, or may suspend or revoke a previous registration, if
the counselor has committed any act which if committed by an
employment agency would be grounds for refusing to issue a
license, or for the suspension or revocation of a license under
this chapter.
   The proceedings under this section shall be conducted in
accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500)
of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and
the bureau shall have all the powers granted therein.
   9965.9. Bach registration under this article shall be an-
nually renewed.
   9965.10. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an
employment agency, within 30 days after employing a coun-
selor, shall submit a copy of his application for employment to
the bureau. The bureau shall ascertain from the Bureau of
 Criminal Investigation and Identification whether such appli-
cant has a criminal record involving sex offenses or crimes of
moral turpitude and inform the agency whether such record
exists and of the contents thereof.


                          CHAPTER 1532
An     act relating to sales tax, and declaring the              urgency
                 thereof, to .take effect immediately.
           [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                  Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
                        1969
Ch. 1533]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3127

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Controller shall contract with an account-
ing firm or with a school of business at the University of Cali-
fornia to conduct a study of the computation of sales tax
liabilities pursuant to Rule 52B of the State Board of Equal-
ization (Subd. (e), Sec. 2002, Title 18, Cal. Adm. C.) and
report its findings to the Legislature on or before February 1,
1970.
   Such study shall include a determination as to whether the
application of Rule 52E results in taxpayers overpaying or
underpaying the sales tax due on the sales of taxable tangible
personal property. Such findings shall be specific for taxpayers
with various sales volumes.
   SEC. 2. The sum of forty-eight thousand dollars ($48,000)
is hereby appropriated from the General F u n d to the Con-
troller to carry out the study provided for in Section 1 of this
act.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   It is of the utmost importance to obtain the results of the
study provided for in Section 1 of this act. In order for this
study to commence as soon as possible, it is necessary that this
act go into immediate effect.


                           CHAPTER 1533

An act to amend Sections 6359 and 6359.4 of the Revenue
      and Taxation Code, relating to sales and use tax.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6359 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   6359. There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this
part the gross receipts from the sale of and the storage, use,
or other consumption in this state of food products for human
consumption.
   "Food products" include cereals and cereal products, oleo-
margarine, meat and meat products, fish and fish products,
eggs and egg products, vegetables and vegetable products,
fruit and fruit products, spices and salt, sugar and sugar prod-
ucts other than candy and confectionery, coffee and coffee
substitutes, tea, cocoa and cocoa products other than candy or
confectionery.
3128               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      rQJj 1534

   "Food products" include milk and milk products, milk-
shakes, malted milks, and any other similar type beverages
which are composed at least in part of milk or a milk product
and which require the use of milk or a milk product in their
preparation.
   "Food products" include all fruit juices, vegetable juices,
and other beverages except bottled water, spirituous, malt or
vinous liquors or carbonated beverages, whether liquid or
frozen.
   "Food products" do not include medicines and preparations
in liquid, powdered, granular, tablet, capsule, lozenge, and pill
form sold as dietary supplements or adjuncts.
   None of the exemptions provided for in this section shall
apply: (a) when the food products are served as meals on or
off the premises of the retailer, or (b) when the food products
are furnished, prepared, or served for consumption at tables,
chairs, or counters or from trays, glasses, dishes, or other table-
ware whether provided by the retailer or by a person with
whom the retailer contracts to furnish, prepare, or serve food
products to others, or (c) when the food products are ordinar-
ily sold for immediate consumption on or near a location at
which parking facilities are provided primarily for the use of
patrons in consuming the products purchased at the location,
even though such products are sold on a "take out" or "to
go" order and are actually packaged or wrapped and taken
from the premises of the retailer, or (d) when the food prod-
ucts are sold for consumption within a place, the entrance to
which is subject to an admission charge, except for national
and state parks and monuments.
   SEC. 2. Section 6359.4 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   6359.4. Any vending machine operator is a consumer of,
and shall not be considered a retailer of, tangible personal
property which sells at retail for fifteen cents ($0.15) or
less and which is actually sold through a vending machine.
   SEC. 3. This act shall become effective January 1, 1970.


                      CHAPTER 1534
An act to add Section 318.5 to the Penal Code, relating to the
  adoption of penal ordinances by counties, cities, and cities
  and counties.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section. 318.5 is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
   318.5. Nothing in this code shall invalidate an ordinance
of, or be construed to prohibit the adoption of an ordinance
                        1969
Ch. 1536]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3129

by, a county or city, if such ordinance directly regulates the
exposure of the genitals or buttocks of or the breasts of any
person who acts as a waiter, waitress, or entertainer, whether
or not the owner of the establishment in which the activity is
performed employs or pays any compensation to such person
to perform such activity, in an establishment which serves
food, beverages, or food and beverages, including, but not lim-
ited to, alcoholic beverages, for consumption on the premises
of such establishment.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a theater,
concert hall, or similar establishment which is primarily de-
voted to theatrical performances.
   This section shall be known and may be cited as the
" Quimby-Walsh A c t . "

                           CHAPTER 1535
An act to add Section 318.6 to the Penal Code, relating to the
     adoption of penal ordinances by cities and counties.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 318.6 is added to the Penal Code, to
read:
  318.6. Nothing in this code shall invalidate an ordinance of,
or be construed to prohibit the adoption of an ordinance by,
a city or county, if such ordinance relates to any live acts,
demonstrations, or exhibitions which occur in public places,
places open to the public, or places open to public view and
involve the exposure of the private parts or buttocks of any
participant or the breasts of any female participant, and if
such ordinance prohibits an act or acts which are not ex-
pressly authorized or prohibited by this code.
  The provisions of this section shall not apply to a theater,
concert hall, or similar establishment which is primarily de-
voted to theatrical performances.


                           CHAPTER 1536
An act to amend Sections 9941, 9942, 9946, and 9949 of the
  Business and Professions Code, relating to employment
  agencies.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3130              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQ^    J53g

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 9941 of the Business and Professions
 Code is amended to read:
    9941. (a) The bureau shall issue two types of licenses:
    (1) An employment agency license.
    (2) An interim employment agency license.
    (b) The bureau may, when issuing a license under this chap-
 ter, restrict the type of employment agency business which
 may be conducted under the license to one or more of the fol-
 lowing categories:
    (1) General. This category authorizes the licensee to en-
 gage in the business of finding all types of employment for
 others.
    (2) Babysitting. This category authorizes the licensee to
 engage exclusively in the business of providing babysitting
 employment for others.
    (3) Domestic. This category authorizes the licensee to en-
 gage exclusively in the business of procuring domestic employ-
 ment for others.
    (4) Modeling. This category authorizes the licensee to en-
 gage exclusively in the business of procuring modeling employ-
 ment for others.
    (5) Farm Labor. This category authorizes the licensee to
 engage exclusively in the business of procuring farm labor
 employment for others.
    (c) In restricting the license to one or more of these cate-
gories the bureau shall consider all of the following:
    (1) The applicant's experience.
    (2) The type of employment agency business which the ap-
 plicant proposes to conduct.
   SEC. 2. Section 9942 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   9942. A written application for an employment agency li-
cense shall be made to the bureau in the form prescribed by the
bureau and shall include:
    (a) The name and address of the applicant. The names
and addresses of each partner, from applicant partnerships,
and each officer, from applicant corporations, shall be stated.
    (b) The full address of the place where the business of
the employment agency is to be conducted.
    (c) The business or occupation engaged in by the appli-
cant for at least two years immediately preceding the date
of application.
    (d) The proposed name of the agency. The bureau shall
reject any proposed name which is the same or similar to
that of a licensed employment agency. An applicant which
is to be an enfranchised member of an employment agency
system may, however, include in its application the name of
such system. If it does so, it may, in addition to the name
approved by the bureau, state in any sign, advertising, or
                     1969
Ch. 1536]                   REGULAR SESSION                    HZ1

promotional material that it is an enfranchised member of
 such employment agency system. Such statement shall be
placed immediately below the name of the agency and shall
be in letters which are not larger than one-half the size of
the letters in the name of the agency.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subdivision, the
bureau shall approve as the proposed name, the name of an
applicant as it appears on a valid, current employment
agency license issued on or before June 30, 1967. When such
name is used on any sign, advertising, or promotional mate-
rial, the entire name as shown on the license shall be used.
   (e) If the bureau establishes categories as provided for in
Section 9941, whether or not the applicant intends to engage
in the general employment agency business, the babysitting
employment agency business, the domestic employment agency
business, the modeling employment agency business, or the
farm labor employment agency business, or in one or more of
these categories.
   (f) Such questions and information as will assure the bu-
reau of the applicant's eligibility to hold license, as established
in Section 9944.
   (g) The names and addresses of all persons, except bona
fide employees on commission or stated salaries, financially
interested, either as partners, associates or profit sharers or
anyone who receives any part of the income directly, in the
operation of the agency in question, together with the amount
of their respective interests.
   (h) The name and address of the candidate, or candidates,
for examination. The candidate for examination shall be one
of the persons named in subdivision (a) above. In the event
of partnerships or corporations, each partner, or officer, may
be a candidate for examination.
   (i) Such other information as the bureau may require.
The application shall be accompanied by affidavits of at least
two reputable residents of the city or county in which the
employment agency is to be conducted that the applicant is a
person of good moral character.
   SEC. 3. Section 9946 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   9946. No employment agency license shall be issued until
an applicant named in subdivision (a) of Section 9942 shall
have successfully passed a qualifying examination. If the
bureau establishes categories as provided for in Section 9941,
he shall pass the entire examination if he is seeking an em-
ployment agency license in the general category. If he is seek-
ing a license in one or more of the other categories, he shall
pass only the portion of the examination designed to test his
ability, knowledge, and proficiency to conduct or manage an
employment agency in each of the other categories in which
he is seeking a license.
   SEC. 4. Section 9949 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
3132               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. 1537

  9949. A license when issued shall designate:
   (a) The name of the licensee.
   (b) The number and date of issuance of the license.
   (c) The name of the qualified examinee or examinees.
   (d) The category of license, if the bureau establishes cate-
gories as provided for in Section 9941.
   (e) In addition, the employment agency license shall desig-
nate:
   (1) The city, street and number of the premises in which
the employment agency is authorized to carry on its business.


                        C H A P T E E 1537
An act to repeal Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 3000)
  of Division 3 of the Labor Code, relating to terms of em-
  ployment.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State* of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 3000) of
Division 3 of the Labor Code is repealed.


                        CHAPTER 1538
An act to amend Section 31026 of the Education Code, relat-
  ing to the Compact for Education, and making an appro-
  priation therefor.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 31026 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   31026. (a) This chapter shall remain operative only until
December 31, 1973, and after such date shall have no force
or effect.
    (b) The Legislature shall, at its 1973 Regular Session,
and each fourth year thereafter, review the matter of Cali-
fornia's participation in the Compact for Education to deter-
mine whether California should continue to be a party to the
compact and thus whether the operation of this chapter should
be extended.
   SEC. 2. There is hereby appropriated from the General
F u n d in the State Treasury to the Department of Education
the sum of twelve thousand fifty dollars ($12,050) in aug-
mentation of Item 84 of the Budget Act of 1969.
                        1969
Ch. 1540]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3^33

                           CHAPTER 1539
       An act to amend Section 1413 of the Labor Code,
            relating to fair employment practices.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 1413 of the Labor Code is amended to
read:
   1413. As used in this part -.
   (a) " P e r s o n " includes one or more individuals, partner-
ships, associations or corporations, legal representatives, trust-
ees, trustees in bankruptcy, or receivers.
   (b) "Employment agency" includes any person under-
taking for compensation to procure employees or opportunities
to work.
   (c) "Labor organization" includes any organization which
exists and is constituted for the purpose, in whole or in part,
of collective bargaining or of dealing with employers concern-
ing grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or of other
mutual aid or protection.
   (d) "Employer," except as hereinafter provided, includes
any person regularly employing five or more persons, or any
person acting as an agent of an employer, directly or indi-
rectly; the state or any political or civil subdivision thereof
and cities.
  " E m p l o y e r " does not include a social club, fraternal,
charitable, educational or religious association or corporation
not organized for private profit.
   (e) " E m p l o y e e " does not include any individual employed
by his parents, spouse or child, or in the domestic service
of any person in his home.
   (f) "Commission," unless a different meaning clearly ap-
pears from the context, means the State Fair Employment
Practice Commission created by this part.
   (g) "Affirmative actions" means any educational activity
for the p,urpose of securing greater employment opportunities
for members of racial, religious, or nationality minority groups
and any promotional activity designed to secure greater em-
ployment opportunities for the members of such groups on
a voluntary basis.

                           CHAPTER 1540
A% act to amend Section 20017.75 of the Government Code,
    relating to the Public Employees' Retirement System.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3134:              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      TQfo ^ 5 4 ^

The people of the State of California do enact as folloivs:

   SECTION 1. Section 20017.75 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   20017.75. "Law enforcement member" means only (a)
those persons employed in the Bureau of Criminal Identifica-
tion and Investigation, whose principal duties consist of active
law enforcement and who are peace officers as defined in Sec-
tion 830.3 of the Penal Code, but excluding- clerical per-
sonnel or those whose principal duties are clerical or other-
wise and which do not clearly fall within the scope of active
law enforcement service, even though such a person is subject
to occasional call, or is occasionally called upon to perform
duties within the scope of active law enforcement and (b) the
members of the California State Police Division who are peace
officers as denned in Section 830.2 of the Penal Code and
whose principal duties consist of active law enforcement, but
excluding clerical personnel or those whose principal duties
are that of telephone operator, machinist, mechanic, security
officer or otherwise clearly not within the scope of active law
enforcement, even though the person is subject to occasional
call, or is occasionally called upon to perform duties within
the scope of active law enforcement.


                        CHAPTER 1541
An act to amend Section 2736 of, and to add Sections 2736.6
  and 2786.6 to the Business and Professions Code, relating
  to the practice of nursing.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2736 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   2736. (a) An applicant shall comply with each of the fol-
lowing :
   (1) Have successfully completed at least an approved high
school course of study or the equivalent thereof as determined
by board regulation, and such other preliminary requirements
as the board by regulation may prescribe.
   (2) Have successfully completed the prescribed course of
study in an accredited school of nursing in this state, or have
graduated from a school outside this state which in the opinion
of the board maintains and gives a course which is equivalent
to the minimum requirements of the board established by reg-
ulation, for an accredited school in this state, or who have suc-
cessfully completed all of the minimum educational require-
ments of the board established by regulation.
                       l969
Ch. 1542]                     REGULAR SESSION                     £135

   (3) Have committed no act, which, if committed by a li-
censee would be a ground for disciplinary action.
   (b) An applicant for a license under this chapter who com-
pletes the prescribed course of study in a school of nursing
located outside of this state shall be deemed to have complied
with the provisions of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of this
section if the school of nursing in which the applicant success-
fully completed his prescribed course of instruction was a
school vhich, in the opinion of the board, maintained and gave
a course which was equivalent to the minimum requirements
of the board for an accredited school in this state at the time
the applicant was a student in such school.
   (c) An applicant graduating from a school of nursing in a
country outside the United States and who has complied with
the provisions of subdivision (a) of this section shall qualify
for licensure by successfully passing the examination pre-
scribed by the board.
   SEC. 2. Section 2736.6 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   2736.6. The board shall determine by regulation the addi-
tional preparation in nursing, in a school approved by the
board, which is required for a vocational nurse, licensed under
Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 2840) of this division,
to be eligible to take the examination for licensure under this
chapter as a registered nurse. The board shall not require more
than 30 units in nursing and related science subjects to satisfy
such preparation.
   SEC. 3. Section 2786.6 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   2786.6. The board shall deny the application for accredita-
tion made by, and shall revoke the accreditation given to, any
school of nursing which does not give to student applicants
credit, in the field of nursing, for previous education and the
opportunity to obtain credit for other acquired knowledge by
the use of challenge examinations or other methods of evalua-
tion.
   The board shall prescribe, by regulation, the education for
which credit is to be given and the amount of credit which is
to be given for each type of education. The word ' ' credit,'' as
used in the preceding sentence, is limited to credit for licensure
only. The board is not authorized to prescribe the credit which
an accredited school of nursing shall give toward an academic
certificate or degree.

                           CHAPTER 1542
An act to add Section 2881.1 to the Business and Professions
     Code, relating to the practice of vocational nursing.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

    99—1954
3136               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   [Qfa 1 5 4 3

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2881.1 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
   2881.1. The board shall deny the application for accredita-
tion made by, and shall revoke the accreditation given to, any
school of vocational nursing which does not give to student
applicants credit, in the field of nursing, for previous education
and the opportunity to obtain credit for other acquired knowl-
edge by the use of challenge examinations or other methods of
evaluation.
   The board shall prescribe, by regulation, the education for
which credit is to be given and the amount of credit which is
to be given for each type of education.


                         C H A P T E E 1543
  An act to amend Sections 310 and 321 of the Elections Code,
               relating to registration of voters.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 310 of the Elections Code is amended to
read:
   310. The affidavit of registration shall show:
   (a) The facts necessary to establish the affiant as an elector.
   (b) Affiant's name at length, including his given name, and
a middle name or initial, or if the initial of his given name is
customarily used, then the initial and middle name. The given
name of a woman shall be preceded in all cases by the designa-
tion of Miss or Mrs.
   (c) Affiant's place of residence and post office address with
sufficient particularity to identify it and to determine affiant's
voting precinct.
   (d) Affiant's social security number. If his social security
number is not immediately available, the affiant may mail the
number to the county clerk on an addressed postcard pro-
vided for that purpose. Notwithstanding this section or Sec-
tion 321, no person shall be denied the right to register be-
cause of his failure to furnish his social security number.
   (e) Affiant's occupation.
   (f) The country or state of affiant's birth.
   (g) If foreign born, how citizenship was acquired, whether
by:
   (1) Citizenship of father.
   (2) Treaty or act of Congress.
   (3) Order of a court of naturalization.
   (4) Marriage to a citizen.
Ch. 1543]^               1969 REGULAR SESSION                   3137

   (5) Naturalization of a parent or husband.
   The place where the affiant became a citizen shall be stated
except in the case of citizenship acquired by citizenship or
naturalization of parents, by treaty, or by act of Congress.
When citizenship depends upon the citizenship or naturaliza-
tion of a parent or husband, the name of the parent or husband
shall be stated.
   (h) "Whether the elector is able to read the Constitution in
the English language and to write his name, and whether the
elector has any physical disability by reason of which he can-
not mark the ballot, in which case the nature of such disability
shall be stated.
   (i) Whether the affiant has ever been convicted of a felony.
   The affiant shall sign the affidavit with his name at length,
 including given name, middle name or initial, or initial and
 middle name, and if he is unable to write he shall sign with a
 mark or cross, and the person before whom the affidavit is
 made shall insert the date of the affidavit, which shall be the
 date of the jurat.
   SEC. 2. Section 321 of the Elections Code is amended to
 read:
    321. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the body
 of the affidavit of registration shall be substantially in the
 following form:
 (B a)     „     I am registered under the name of                  in
 * aa                   Assembly District,            precinct in said
 h g *         county and request that said registration be canceled.
 u   «•>




                        AFFIDAVIT OF EEGISTEATION

 State of California,        \
 County of (               ) J SS"
    The undersigned affiant, being duly sworn, says: I will
 be at least 21 years of age at the time of the next succeeding
 election, a citizen of the United States 90 days prior thereto,
 and a resident of the state one year, of the county 90 days,
 and of the precinct 54 days next preceding such election, and
 will be an elector of this county at the next succeeding elec-
 tion.
    1. I am not now registered as a voter in this state. (If now
 registered in this county under this or another name, mark
 out word " n o t " and fill out transfer clause at top. If now
 registered in another county, mark out word " n o t " and
 execute a separate affidavit of cancellation before registering.)
    2. My full name is             (including Christian or given
 name, and middle name or initial and in case of women, the
  prefix Miss or Mrs.).
 3138                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQft   1543

   3. My residence is             between           and
Streets,       floor,    Boom
   4. My occupation is
   5. My height is            feet          inches.
   6. I was born in
                             (State or country)
   7. I acquired citizenship by (underline method of acquiring
citizenship) :
   a. Decree of court.                  e. Naturalization of my
        Father's naturalization.           husband.
        {
        Mother's naturalization.
   c. Citizenship of father.
                                        f. Act of Congress.
                                        g. Treaty.
   d. Marriage to a citizen.

   ™~{&]
        { father's "I
         husband's \ name is (was)
          mother's J
    (To be filled out when citizenship depends on citizenship or
naturalization of parent or husband.)
   8. I can               read the Constitution in the English
language; I can                write my name; I am entitled to
vote by reason of having been on October 10, 1911, an elector.
   I can               mark my ballot by reason of
 (State physical disability, if any.)
   9. I intend to affiliate at the ensuing primary election with
the             party. (If affiliation is not given, write or stamp
"Declines to state.")
   10. I have               been convicted of a felony. (Not all
felony convictions will disqualify you from voting. If you have
ever been convicted of a felony contact the registrar of voters
for a determination as to your eligibility to vote.)
   11. My social security number is                       (may be
omitted).

                                           (Affiant sign here.)
                               Residence
                         Subscribed and sworn to before me this
                                   day of         , 19

                                                 County Clerk.
                By
                                        Deputy County Clerk.
Assembly District
Post office address is          Precinct
Rural Route No.              Box. No.
                        1969
Ch. 1544]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3139

                       CHAPTER 1544
An act to provide health science facilities by the adoption of
  a construction program therefor, by providing the funds
  necessary therefor through the issuance,and sale of bonds
  of the State of California, and by providing for the handling
  and disposition of said funds, making an appropriation
  therefor, and providing for the submission of the measure
  to the people at a special election to be consolidated with
  the direct primary election of 1970.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as
the University of California Health Science Facilities Con-
struction Program Bond Act of 1969.
   SEC. 2. The purpose of this act is to provide the necessary
funds to meet the major building construction, equipment, and
site acquisition needs of the state for purposes of providing
health science facilities at the University of California.
   Proceeds of the bonds authorized to be issued under this
act, in an amount or amounts which the Legislature shall de-
termine, shall be used for the construction, equipment, and
site acquisition of health science facilities as are approved and
authorized by the Legislature subsequent to the adoption of
this act by the people.
   SEC. 3. Bonds in the total amount of two hundred forty-
six million three hundred thousand dollars ($246,300,000), or
so much thereof as is necessary, may be issued and sold to pro-
vide a fund to be used for carrying out the purposes expressed
in Section 2 of this act, and to be used to reimburse the Gen-
eral Obligation Bond Expense Revolving Fund pursuant to
 Government Code Section 16724.5. Said bonds shall be known
and designated as University of California Health Science Fa-
cilities Construction Program bonds and, when sold, shall be
and constitute a valid and binding obligation of the State of
California, and the full faith and credit of the State of Cali-
fornia is hereby pledged for the punctual payment of both
principal and interest on said bonds as said principal and in-
terest become due and payable.
   SEC. 4. There shall be collected each year and in the same
manner and at the same time as other state revenue is col-
lected, such sum in addition to the ordinary revenues of the
state as shall be required to pay the principal and interest on
said bonds maturing in said year, and it is hereby made the
duty of all officers charged by law with any duty in regard to
the collection of said revenue to do and perform each and
3140              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [ ( ^ 1544

every act which shall be necessary to collect such additional
sum.
    SEC. 5. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund in the State Treasury for the purpose of this act, such
an amount as will equal the following:
    (a) Such sum annually as will be necessary to pay the
principal and interest on bonds issued and sold pursuant to
the provisions of this act, as said principal and interest become
due and payable.
     (b) Such sum as is necessary to carry out the provisions of
Section 8 of this act, which sum is appropriated without re-
gard to fiscal years.
    SEC. 6. The proceeds of bonds issued and sold pursuant to
 this act, together with interest earned thereon, if any, shall be
 deposited in the University of California Health Science Facil-
ities Construction Program Fund. The money so deposited in
 the fund shall be reserved and allocated solely for expenditure
 for the purposes specified in this act and only pursuant to
 appropriation by the Legislature in the manner hereinafter
 prescribed.
    SEC. 7. A section shall be included in the Budget Bill for
 each fiscal year bearing the caption University of California
 Health Science Facilities Construction Bond Act Program.
 Said section shall contain proposed appropriations only for
 the program contemplated by this act, and no funds derived
 from the bonds authorized by this act may be expended pur-
 suant to an appropriation not contained in said section of the
 Budget Act. The Department of Finance, which is hereby des-
 ignated as the board for the purposes of this act, shall annually
 total the Budget Act appropriations referred to in this section
 and, pursuant to Section 16730 of the Government Code, re-
 quest the University of California Health Science Facilities
  Construction Program Committee to cause bonds to be issued
  and sold in quantities sufficient to carry out the projects for
  which such appropriations were made.
     SEC. 8. For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of
  this act the Director of Finance may by executive order au-
  thorize the withdrawal from the General F u n d of an amount
  or amounts not to exceed the amount of the unsold bonds which
  have been authorized to be sold for the purpose of carrying out
  this act. Any amounts withdrawn shall be deposited in the
  University of California Health Science Facilities Construc-
  tion Program Fund, and shall be reserved, allocated for ex-
  penditure, and expended as specified in Section 6 of this act.
  Any moneys made available under this section to the board
  shall be returned by the board to the General Fund from
  moneys received from the sale of bonds sold for the purpose
  of carrying out this act, together with interest at the rate of
  interest fixed in the bonds so sold.
                    1969
Ch. 1544]                  EEGULAK SESSION                  3^4^

   SEC. 9. The bonds authorized by this act shall be prepared,
executed, issued, sold, paid and redeemed as provided in the
State General Obligation Bond Law (Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 16720) of Part 3, Division 4, Title 2 of the Gov-
ernment Code), and all of the provisions of said law are ap-
plicable to said bonds and to this act and are hereby incor-
porated in this act as though set forth in full herein, except
that, not withstanding Section 16731 of the Government Code,
the annual rate of interest on such bonds may be 6 percent or
less.
   SEC. 10. The University of California Health Science Fa-
cilities Construction Program Committee is hereby created. The
committee shall consist of the Governor, the State Controller,
the State Treasurer, the Director of Finance, and the Chair-
man of the Regents of the University of California. For the
purpose of this act, the University of California Health Sci-
ence Facilities Construction Program Committee shall be the
"committee" as that term is used in the State General Obliga-
tion Bond Law.
   SEC. 11. Sections 1 to 10 of this act shall take effect upon
the adoption by the people of the University of California
Health Science Facilities Construction Program Bond Act of
1969, as set forth in Sections 1 to 10 of this act. Sections 11 to
18 of this act contain provisions relating to and necessary for
the submission of the University of California Health Science
Facilities Construction Program Bond Act of 1969 to the peo-
ple and for returning, canvassing, and proclaiming the votes
thereon, and shall take effect immediately.
   SEC. 12. A special election is hereby called to be held
throughout the state on June 2,1970. The special election shall
be consolidated with the direct primary election to be held on
that date. The consolidated election shall be held and con-
 ducted in all respects as if there were only one election and
only one form of ballot shall be used. Except as otherwise
provided in this act, all of the provisions of law relating to
 the submission of measures proposed by the Legislature shall
apply to the measure submitted pursuant to this act, and only
one form of ballot and ballot pamphlet shall be used. The dis-
tribution of ballot pamphlets in all respects shall be conducted
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3573 of the Elec-
tions Code.
   SEC. 13. At the special election called by this act there
 shall be submitted to the electors Sections 1 to 10 of this act.
    SEC. 14. Upon the effective date of this section, the author
 of the measure submitted pursuant to this act and two mem-
 bers of the other house who voted with the majority on the
 measure, shall be appointed by the presiding officers of the re-
 spective houses to draft the arguments for the adoption of the
 measure. If the measure is not adopted unanimously by the
3142              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQfa ^ 5 4 4

house in which it originated, one member of the house in
 which it originated, who voted against it, shall be appointed
by the presiding officer of that house to write an argument
against it. If there are no negative votes on the measure in the
house in which it originated, the presiding officer of that house
shall appoint some qualified person to draft an argument
against it. Bach argument shall consist of not more than 500
words and shall be submitted to the Secretary of State on or
before the fifth day after this section takes effect.
    SEC. 15. The special election provided for in this act shall
be proclaimed, held, conducted; the ballots shall be prepared,
marked, collected, counted and canvassed; and the results shall
be ascertained and the returns thereof made in all respects in
accordance with the provisions of the Constitution applicable
thereto and the law governing general elections insofar as pro-
 visions thereof are applicable to the election provided for in
 this act.
    SEC. 16. All ballots at said election shall have printed
thereon in boldface type and in a square thereof, the words:
" F o r bonds to provide University of California health science
facilities." In the square immediately below the square con-
taining such words there shall be printed on said ballot in
boldface type the words: "Against bonds to provide University
of California health science facilities." In each square con-
taining the language specified above, immediately below that
language and enclosed in parentheses, there shall be printed, in
eight-point type, the words: " T h i s act provides for a bond
issue of two hundred forty-six million three hundred thousand
dollars ($246,300,000)." Opposite the words: " F o r bonds to
provide University of California health science facilities,'' and
the language immediately following such statement, and
"Against bonds to provide University of California health
science facilities," and the language immediately following
such statement, there shall be left spaces in which the voters
may place a cross in the manner required by law to indicate
whether they vote for or against said act. Those voting for
said bonds shall do so by placing a cross opposite the words:
'' For bonds to provide University of California health science
facilities," and those voting against said bonds shall do so
by placing a cross opposite the words: "Against bonds to
provide University of California health science facilities";
provided that where the voting of said election is done by
means of voting machines used pursuant to law in such man-
ner as to carry out the intent of this section, the use of such
voting machines and the expression of the voters' choice by
means thereof, shall be deemed to comply with the provisions
of this section. The measures shall appear on the ballot and
in the ballot pamphlets in substantially the following form:
                        1969
Ch. 1545]                      REGULAR SESSION                        3143


FOR BONDS TO PROVIDE UNIVERSITY OF
 CALIFORNIA HEALTH SCIENCE FACILI-
 TIES.
  (This act provides for a bond issue of two hun-
    dred forty-six million three hundred thousand
    dollars ($246,300,000).)


AGAINST BONDS TO PROVIDE UNIVERSITY
 OF CALIFORNIA HEALTH SCIENCE FA-
 CILITIES.
  (This act provides for a bond issue of two hun-
    dred forty-six million three hundred thousand
    dollars ($246,300,000).)


   The Governor of this state shall include the submission of
the measure to the people, as aforesaid, in his proclamation
calling for said election.
   SEC. 17. If it appears that the measure shall have received
a majority of all the votes cast for and against it at said elec-
tion as aforesaid, then the same shall have effect as hereinbe-
fore provided, and shall be irrepealable until the principal and
interest of the liabilities herein created shall be paid and dis-
charged, and the Governor shall make proclamation thereof;
but if a majority of the votes cast as aforesaid are against the
measure then the same shall be and become void.
   SEC. 18. Upon the effective date of this section the Sec-
retary of State shall request the Legislative Counsel to pre-
pare an analysis of the measure in accordance with Section
3566 of the Elections Code.


                           CHAPTER 1545
     An act to add Section 13443.6 to the Education           Code,
               relating to certificated employees.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 13443.6 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   13443.6. Unless a certificated employee holding a position
requiring an administrative or supervisory credential receives
written notice by March 15 that he may be released for the
following school year, the employee's contract shall be renewed
on the same terms and conditions as were embodied in his last
3144               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      r QJj J 5 4 6

contract. The provisions of this section do not apply to a
certificated employee who holds a position described in Section
938 or to the termination of employment pursuant to Section
13447.

                         CHAPTER 1546
An act to add Section 21200.2 to the Government Code, relat-
       ing to the Public Employees' Retirement System.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 21200.2 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   21200.2. Notwithstanding Section 21200.1, the board may
fix the effective date of a member's retirement as of a date
earlier than the first of the month in which an application
for the retirement is received in the office of the board if an
application is in fact received within six months following
member's separation from state service, and if the board finds
that the member's employer undertook to transmit an applica-
tion for such retirement to the board on behalf of the member
and failed or delayed unreasonably in such transmission, and
the member's retirement allowance, based on his attained age
in the month in which the application is received in the office
of the board, would be no greater than that based on his at-
tained age as of the effective date to be fixed by the board. An
effective date fixed pursuant to this section may not be earlier
than the effective date found to have been specified in the orig-
inal application.
   This section shall apply only to members who retired within
three years prior to its effective date, and who present proof
of the required facts by December 31, 1969.


                        CHAPTER 1547
An act to add Title 7.7 (commencing with Section 67410) to
  the Government Code, relating to southern California trans-
  portation.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969 Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Title 7.7 (commencing with Section 67410) is
added to the Government Code, to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1547]                  KEGULAB SESSION                  3145

    TITLE 7.7. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA TRANS-
         PORTATION STUDY COMMISSION
   67410. This title shall be known and may be cited as the
 Southern California Transportation Study Commission Act.
   67411. The Legislature hereby finds and declares that the
proper development of the southern California region re-
 quires that effective, economic transportation services which
are compatible with regional priorities and projected land use
plans be provided. Despite the best efforts of existing agencies,
the kind of overall planning required to provide such services
has not been possible. I n particular, land use and transporta-
tion planning have proceeded with little coordination, result-
ing in increasing traffic congestion. Because of present
organizational arrangements, separate facilities such as high-
ways and rail transit are being planned rather than an inte-
grated transportation system. Present efforts are leading to
costly and ineffective transportation services which will ulti-
mately limit the development of the southern California
region.
   It is therefore necessary that a limited-life commission be
established to define the proper means of providing overall
transportation planning in southern California and to under-
take an initial study and definition of a regional transportation
plan including the means for development and financing of
required facilities.
   The Legislature recognizes that the Southern California
Association of Governments has the primary responsibility for
comprehensive regional planning in southern California.
Therefore, the Legislature directs that the commission perform
its functions through a written agreement with this association
that insures proper coordination and integration of regional
planning activities.
   67412. There is hereby created the Southern California
Transportation Study Commission which shall consist of 26
members. Representation and appointment shall be as follows:
   (a) Twelve members shall be local elected officials and
appointed by the Governor from a list of local elected officials
submitted to the Governor by the Executive Committee of the
Southern California Association of Governments.
   (b) One member shall be a representative of the State
Transportation Agency.
   (c) One member shall be a representative of the Southern
California Rapid Transit District.
   (d) One member shall be a State Senator from the area un-
der study who shall serve to the extent that such participation
is not incompatible with his position as a Member of the
Legislature and shall be chosen by the Senate Rules Commit-
tee.
   (e) One member shall be an Assemblyman from the area un-
der study who shall serve to the extent that such participation
is not incompatible with his position as a Member of the
3146              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ Q ] ^ ^54.7

Legislature and shall be chosen by the Speaker of the As-
sembly.
    (f) Ten members shall be local residents, broadly represent-
ative of local business, labor and community interests, shall not
 be governmental officials, shall serve in an advisory ca-
pacity to the commission, and shall be appointed by the Gov-
 ernor from a list of names submitted to the Governor by the
Executive Committee of the Southern California Association
of Governments.
    Vacancies occurring in commission membership shall be filled
 in the same manner as original appointments. Commission
members shall select a chairman and vice chairman.
    67413. The members of the commission shall serve for four
years or until the termination of the commission, whichever is
 earlier.
    67414. The members of the commission shall serve without
compensation, but each of the members may be reimbursed for
his necessary and actual expenses incurred in the performance
of his duties.
    67415. All meetings of the commission shall be open to the
 public, and all persons shall be permitted to attend any meet-
 ings of the commission.
    67416. The commission shall conduct a comprehensive
study of the regional transportation problems affecting the
 southern California area which, for the purposes of this title,
 is composed of the Counties of Ventura, Los Angeles, Orange,
 San Bernardino, Riverside and Imperial.
    67417. The commission shall limit its studies of interre-
 gional transportation facilities to the extent such facilities
influence or affect intraregional transportation facilities or
planning requirements therefor.
    67418. The commission shall be responsible for conducting
studies and developing specific recommendations in regard to
the following matters:
    (a) Interrelationship between transportation and regional
goals and priorities, including such areas as population, popu-
lation density, employment, housing, education, transportation,
recreation, natural resources, business, and economic levels.
    (b) The efficacy of existing transportation systems and
land-use plans to meet regional goals.
    (c) Transportation service in light of land-use plans and
regional goals.
    (d) The capabilities of existing or proposed transportation
systems and operations to meet service needs.
    (e) Recommendations for meeting defined transportation
service needs.
    (f) Required legislation or modifications in governmental
organization to:
    (1) Establish and finance a continuing planning process
that properly coordinates regional goals, land-use planning,
and transportation service.
                     1969
Ch. 15481                   REGULAR SESSION                    3147

   (2) Finance required transportation systems and facilities.
   (3) Provide and implement a master plan for the develop-
ment and construction of transportation facilities for the
southern California area.
   67419. I n order to avoid duplication of work, the commis-
sion shall make maximum use of data and information avail-
able in plans and studies of public and private agencies. The
commission shall utilize the resources of the staff of the South-
ern California Association of Governments for administrative
and technical services.
   67420. The commission may:
   (a) Accept grants, contributions and appropriations from
any public agency.
   (b) Appoint committees from its membership and from
other interested public and private groups.
   (c) Contract for or employ any professional services re-
quired or for the performance of work and services which in
its opinion cannot satisfactorily be performed by its officers
and staff.
   67421. The commission shall take whatever steps are neces-
sary to attempt to obtain money available for such activities
from any federal or local sources.
   67422. The commission shall file a progress report with the
Governor and the Legislature not later than the fifth legisla-
tive day of the 1971 Regular Session of the Legislature, and
shall file a final report with the Governor and the Legislature
not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1972 Regular
Session of the Legislature.
   67423. The existence of the commission shall terminate on
the 91st day after the final adjournment of the 1972 Regular
Session of the Legislature.

                        CHAPTER 1548
An act to add Sections 14112.1 and 14216.5 to the Education
      Code, relating to the Teachers' 'Retirement Fund.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 14216.5 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   14216.5. The state shall deposit that portion of the annual
appropriation required for payments of subventions to local
districts in a lump sum into the Teachers' Retirement Fund,
when requested by the Teachers' Retirement Board. The re-
mainder of the annual appropriation shall be deposited into
the Teachers' Retirement F u n d monthly.
   SEC. 2. Section 14112.1 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
3148               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                       rQJ1_ 1 5 4 9

  14112.1. The state shall deposit that portion of the annual
appropriation required for payments of subventions to local
districts in a lump sum into the Teachers' Retirement Fund,
when requested by the Teachers' Retirement Board. The re-
mainder of the annual appropriation shall be deposited into
the Teachers' Retirement Fund monthly.
  SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall become operative only if
Assembly Bill No. 1728 is enacted by the Legislature at its
1969 Regular Session, and in such case at the same time as
Assembly Bill No. 1728 takes effect; at which time Section
14216.5 of the Education Code as added by Section 1 of this
act is repealed.

                        CHAPTER 1549
    An act to add Section 9357.46 to the Government Code,
       relating to the Legislators' Retirement System.
         [Approved t>y Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 9357.46 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   9357.46. Any person who was a member and who withdrew
his accumulated contributions after discontinuance of service
may, at any time while he is in employment in which he is a
member of the Public Employees' Retirement System or the
State Teachers' Retirement System, redeposit in the fund in
one sum an amount equal to the accumulated contributions
withdrawn plus the interest which would have been credited
to such accumulated contributions had they not been with-
drawn, using the rate of interest in effect at the time of re-
deposit.
  Upon such redeposit, the person shall become a member
with the rights provided a member who elected under Section
9355.2 to allow his contributions to remain in the fund.


                        CHAPTER 1550
An act to amend Sections 437, 437.1, 437.2, and 437.4 of the
    Health and Safety Code, relating to health planning.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 437 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
                    1969
Ch. 15501                  REGULAR SESSION                  3149

    437. In order to provide comprehensive state health plan-
ning in response to the enactment of Public Law 89-749, there
 is hereby created a Health Planning Council, to be composed
 of 21 members.
    The Governor shall appoint 12 members, one of whom shall
be representative of nongovernmental organizations or groups
 concerned with the operation, construction, or utilization of
hospitals or other health care facilities, one of whom shall be
representative of a public agency concerned with the opera-
tion, construction, or utilization of hospitals or general health
activities, one of whom shall be concerned with the operation,
construction or utilization of nongovernmental facilities or
services for the retarded, one of whom shall be representa-
tive of nongovernmental organizations or groups concerned
with the operation, construction or utilization of mental health
services, one of whom shall be a provider of health care, one
of whom shall be a representative of consumers of services for
the mentally retarded, one of whom shall be a representative
of consumers of mental health services, one of whom shall be a
representative of local government, and four of whom shall be
representatives of the general consumer public, as defined.
   The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Eules shall ap-
point three members, one of whom shall be a Member of the
Senate, one of whom shall be a provider of health care, and
one of whom shall be a representative of the general consumer
public.
    The Speaker of the Assembly shall appoint three members,
one of whom shall be a Member of the Assembly, one of whom
shall be a provider of health care, and one of whom shall be a
representative of the general consumer public.
    The Director of the Department of Public Health, the Di-
rector of the Department of Mental Hygiene, and a state
government official concerned with health who is appointed
by and serves at the pleasure of the Governor shall be members
of the council.
   The chairman and vice chairman of the council shall be
appointed by the Governor. The chairman shall be chosen
from among the representatives of the general consumer public
or public officials, except for legislators and except for repre-
sentatives of major purchasers of health care services. The
chairman and vice chairman shall serve at the pleasure of the
Governor.
   The representatives of the general consumer public shall be
bona fide public representatives whose occupations are neither
the administration of health activities nor the performance of
health services, who have no fiduciary obligation to a hospital
or other health agency, and who have no material financial
interest in the rendering of health services.
   The Member, or Members, of the Senate, appointed by the
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Rules, and the Member,
or Members, of the Assembly, appointed by the Speaker, shall
3150               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ C h . 1550

 meet with and participate in the work of the council to the
 extent that such participation is not incompatible with their
 positions as Members of the Legislature. The Members of the
 Legislature appointed to the council shall serve at the pleasure
 of the appointing power. F o r purposes of this part, such
 Members of the Legislature shall constitute a joint legislative
 committee on the subject of this part and shall have the
 powers and duties imposed upon such committee by the Joint
 Rules of the Senate and Assembly.
    SEC. 2. Section 437.1 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
    437.1. Of the members first appointed by the Governor,
 two shall hold office for four years, four shall hold office for
 three years, and two shall hold office for two years.
    Of the members first appointed by the Chairman of the
 Senate Committee on Rules, one shall hold office for four years
 and one shall hold office for two years.
    Of the members first appointed by the Speaker of the As-
 sembly, one shall hold office for four years and one shall hold
 office for two years.
    The members first appointed to the additional offices cre-
 ated by the amendments to this part enacted at the 1969 Regu-
 lar Session of the Legislature shall hold office for four-year
 terms.
    Thereafter, each member shall hold office for four years. No
 appointing authority specified in Section 437 shall appoint
 any person to alternate membership on the Health Planning
 Council, unless to fill the vacant term of an appointment.
    The terms of Members of the Legislature appointed to the
 council shall be figured as indicated above, but the members
 shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing power and in no
event after they cease to be Members of the Legislature.
    SEC. 3. Section 437.2 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
    437.2. The Health Planning Council shall meet on call of
the council chairman as often as necessary to fulfill its duties.
All decisions of the council shall be decided by a majority of
the voting members.
    SEC. 4. Section 437.4 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   437.4. The council may appoint an executive secretary who
may appoint persons to such staff positions as the council may
authorize. The affirmative votes of a majority of the voting
members of the council shall be necessary to the appointment
or removal of the executive secretary.
   The council may establish standing committees, and appoint
persons, who are not members of the council, to such commit-
tees, as is necessary to carry out the purposes of this part.
Members of such standing committees shall serve without com-
pensation, but shall be reimbursed for any actual and necessary
expenses incurred in connection with their duties as members
of such committees.
                        1969
Ch. 1552]                      REGULAR SESSION                    315][

                           C H A P T E R 1551
     An act to amend Section 13188 of the Education Code,
          relating to California teaching credentials.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows;
   SECTION 1. Section 13188 of the Education Code is
 amended to read:
   13188. As used in this article:
    (a) "Academic subject matter a r e a " refers exclusively to
the natural sciences, the social sciences (other than education
 and educational methodology), the humanities, mathematics,
and the fine arts. The State Board of Education may consider
a given subject matter major, whatever its title, to be an aca-
demic subject matter major if it finds that at the specific insti-
tution the required courses and the content of such courses
within the major are equivalent to those of an academic subject
matter major. For the purposes of this article, the social sci-
ences shall include ethnic studies.
   (b) "Specialized preparation" means training and educa-
tion designed to prepare a person to serve as a librarian and to
teach librarianship or to serve as a teacher of exceptional chil-
dren, as designated on the credential.
   (c) " D e g r e e " includes any certificate, diploma, or other
document granted by a foreign institution of higher learning,
regardless of its degree or graduation policies, which is certi-
fied by the State Board of Education as representing academic
qualifications and standards equivalent to those of a degree
granted by universities and colleges in the United States and
fulfilling the academic requirements for a California teaching
credential.

                          C H A P T E R 1552
An act to amend Section 8575 of, to add Chapter 9 (commenc-
  ing with Section 12820) to Division 9 of, and to repeal
  Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 12820) and Chapter
  10 (commencing with Section 12851) of Division 9 of, the
  Education Code, relating to testing programs.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 8575 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
  8575. The State Board of Education shall, on or after
July 1, 1970, prepare, and distribute to each school district
3152              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               \ Ch, 1 5 5 2

maintaining a high school for its consideration, model mini-
mum academic standards for graduation as required by Sec-
tion 8574 of this code.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 12820) of Di-
vision 9 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 12820) is
added to Division 9 of the Education Code, to read:

                 CHAPTER 9.    SCHOOL TESTING

                Article 1.    General Provisions
   12820. This chapter may be cited as the California School
Testing Act of 1969.
   12821. The objectives of this chapter are:
    (a) To afford a means and procedure for evaluating the
effectiveness of the public schools as shown by the competence
and progress of public school pupils in basic skills and content
courses.
    (b) To make such evaluations available to educational agen-
cies and the public as a basis for the correction of deficiencies
in, and the improvement of, all phases of the state educa-
tional system and as a basis for research.
    (c) To afford to the Legislature facts from which it may
determine the proper allocation and expenditure of public
funds for public school education.
    12822. As used in this chapter:
    (a) "Achievement t e s t " means any standardized test which
measures or attempts to measure the level of performance
which a pupil has attained in one or more courses of study.
I t shall include (1) tests in basic skills courses administered
annually and (2) tests in content courses administered from
time to time as designated by the State Board of Education.
    (b) "Physical performance t e s t " means any test which
measures or attempts to measure the physical fitness of a pupil.
    (c) "Scholastic aptitude t e s t " means any standardized test
which measures or attempts to measure the scholastic aptitude
of a pupil.
    (d) "Testing program" means the systematic achievement,
physical performance, and scholastic aptitude testing required
by this chapter of all pupils in grades 6 and 12 in all schools
within a school district by means of tests designated by the
State Board of Education.
    (e) "Basic skills courses" means those subjects which in-
volve, among other skills, memorization and mastery of specific
functions, including but not limited to, reading, spelling, basic
mathematics, and grammar.
    (f) "Content courses" means those subjects which require
the integration of factual matter, logical analysis, the solution
by the student of posed problems, and the communication of
ideas, including, but not limited to, literature, history, ad-
 vanced mathematics, and science.
                     1969
Ch. 15521                   REGULAR SESSION                 3153

   12823. The State Board of Education shall:
   (a) Eequire a testing program in all school districts.
   (b) Designate the achievement, scholastic aptitude, and
physical performance tests to be used during the ensuing
school year.
   (c) Adopt regulations for the conduct and administration
of the testing program.
   12824. The State Board of Education may develop, pub-
lish, and administer tests of its own devising, and the board
may utilize the expert services of any persons or groups of
persons in public or private employment.
   12825. The governing board of each district shall, in ac-
cordance with the rules and regulations of the State Board
of Education, conduct a testing program within the district.
The governing board may also administer other tests.
   12826. The governing board of a school district shall report
to the Department of Education, pursuant to rules and regu-
lations adopted by the State Board of Education, the scores
of the achievement and scholastic aptitude tests administered
pursuant to this article.
   The districtwide results of the testing program, but not the
score or relative position of individual pupils, shall be reported
to the governing board of the district at least once a year at
a regularly scheduled meeting.
   12827. Upon request of the Department of Education, a
school district shall submit to the department at least once
every two years the results of its physical performance testing.
   12828. At the request of the State Board of Education,
and in accordance with rules and regulations which the board
may adopt, each county superintendent of schools shall coop-
erate with and give assistance to school districts under his
jurisdiction in carrying out the testing programs of such dis-
tricts and other duties imposed on school districts by this
chapter.
   12829. "With the exception of physical performance tests,
no city, county, city and county, or district superintendent of
schools or any principal or teacher of any elementary or sec-
ondary school under his charge shall carry on any program
of specific preparation of the pupils within the district for the
testing program as such or the particular test used therein.
   12830. No provision of this chapter or Article 3 (com-
mencing with Section 8571) of Chapter 3 of Division 7 shall
be construed to mean, or represented to require, that gradua-
tion from a high school or promotion to another grade level is
in any way dependent upon successful performance on any
test administered as a part of the testing program.

            Article 2.      Content Course Evaluation
   12840. Prom time to time, as the State Board of Educa-
tion may determine, the board shall conduct studies of the
effectiveness of the various content courses offered by the pub-
3154               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQJj ^ 5 5 2

lie schools of this state. Such studies shall include details of
the specific objectives of the courses and the level of achieve-
ment attained by students enrolled in such courses and, for
this purpose, the board may use the results of any test ad-
ministered under the provisions of this chapter.
   12841. Upon the completion of a study by the board pur-
suant to Section 12840, the board shall report its findings,
and recommendations, if any, to the Governor and the Legis-
lature not later than January 1 of the year succeeding com-
pletion of the study.
   12842. I n making reports to the Legislature pursuant to
Section 12841, the board shall maintain the anonymity of all
individual students involved, as well as the participating
school districts. The board may make analyses involving other
factors, including, but not limited to, general categories of
pedagogies in use, type of district organization, geographic
area, socioeconomic data, size of school district, or other ana-
lytical items which may prove useful.
   12843. The governing board of any school district shall
cooperate fully with the State Board of Education in making
its schools available for studies; provided, that the State
Board of Education shall provide all necessary materials and
consultant services free of charge to the district.
   12844. The State Board of Education may accept federal
or other funds for the purpose of financing studies under
this article. Such studies shall be conducted by the board on an
ad hoc basis, and the board may utilize the expert services of
any persons or groups of persons in public or private em-
ployment.

         Article 3.   Testing Evaluation and Analysis
   12848. The Department of Education shall prepare and
submit an annual report to the Legislature, the State Board of
Education and to each school district in the state containing an
analysis, on a district-by-district basis, of the results and test
scores of the testing program in basic skills courses, including
tests administered pursuant to the Miller-Unruh Basic Bead-
ing Act of 1965 (Chapter 5.8 (commencing with Section
5770) of Division 6). The report shall include, but is not
limited to, an analysis of the following operational factors
having a substantive relationship to or bearing on such re-
sults:
   (a) Maximum and minimum salary paid teachers.
   (b) Average class size in grades 1 to 3, inclusive.
   (c) Pupil-teacher ratio in grades 4 to 8, inclusive.
   (d) Number of nonteaching certificated personnel per 100
full-time teachers.
   (e) Total general fund tax rate and total general purpose
tax rate.
   (f) Assessed valuation per unit of average daily attendance.
   (g) Percentage of minority enrollment.
                        1969
Ch. 1553]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3155

   (h) Index of family poverty, derived from dividing funds
received under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (Public Law 89-10) by the average daily
attendance in the district.
   (i) Average scholastic ability.
   (j) Average transitory factors as derived from dividing
the average daily attendance of the district or selected schools
by the total annual enrollment of the district.
   (k) The rate of turnover of staff.
   12849. The State Board of Education shall make recom-
mendation to the Legislature as the board deems appropriate
concerning appropriate or necessary legislation with respect
to the results of the testing program and the evaluation and
analysis thereof required by this chapter.
   SEC. 4. Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 12851) of
Division 9 of the Education Code is repealed.


                           CHAPTER 1553
   An act to amend Section 18502 of the Health and Safety
             Code, relating to mohilehome parks.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the Stale of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 18502 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   18502. Pees as applicable shall be submitted for permits:
   (a) Plan checking fees equal to one-half of the construc-
tion, mechanical and electrical permits, provided, however, the
minimum fee shall be ten dollars ($10).
   (b) Operating permit fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) for
the first 35 lots and fifty cents ($0.50) for each additional lot
in excess of the first 35 lots; provided, however, that the com-
mission may establish a separate schedule of fees for operating
permits to defray the cost of enforcement where the depart-
ment is the enforcement agency. Such fees established by the
commission shall not exceed an initial fee of twenty-five dollars
 ($25) per park and an additional two dollars ($2) per lot.
   (c) Change in name, transfer of ownership, or possession
fee ten dollars ($10).
   (d) Duplicate or amended permit fee ten dollars ($10).
   SEC. 2. The changes made to Section 18502 of the Health
and Safety Code by Section 1 of this act shall remain in effect
until the 91st day after the final adjournment of the 1971
Eegular Session of the Legislature, and shall have no force or
effect after that date. On and after that date, Section 18502
of the Health and Safety Code shall read exactly as it read
immediately prior to the effective date of this act.
3156                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. 1554

                         CHAPTER 1554
An act to add Section 20804.8 to the Government Code, relat-
      ing to the Public Employees' Retirement System.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20804.8 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   20804.8. A retired state miscellaneous member shall receive
service credit for time during which he rendered service to a
committee of the Legislature in the years 1931, 1932, and
1933, and for which he received no compensation except as
allowed by the State Board of Control pursuant to Item 256.1,
Budget Act of 1967. The amount of service credit granted shall
be determined as it would have been had the compensation
received been paid when the service was rendered, and may
not exceed, for any fiscal year, an amount which, when added
to service already credited for that fiscal year, equals one year.
The service retirement allowance of such member payable for
time commencing on the effective date of this section shall be
increased to the amount it would be if such service had been
credited to the member at retirement, but this section shall
not give any such retired member, or his successors in interest,
any claim against the state for any increase in any retirement
allowance paid or payable for time prior to its effective date.
Service so credited shall not affect the retired member's effec-
tive date of membership in the system or cause any adjust-
ment of the amount of contribution required of him as a
member.

                         CHAPTER 1555
An act to amend Sections 6252 and 6254 of, to repeal Section
  6257 of, to add Section 6257 to, and to add Article 10.3
  (commencing with Section 6261) and Article 10.4 (com-
  mencing with Section 6268) to Chapter 6 of Division 6 of,
  the Education Code, relating to vocational education.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 6252 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  6252. The people of the state accept the provisions of, and
each of the funds provided by, the act of Congress entitled
"An act to strengthen and improve the quality of vocational
                    1969
Ch. 1555]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3157

education and to expand the vocational opportunities in the
Nation" approved December 17, 1963, and amended October
16, 1968.
   SEO. 2. Section 6254 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   6254. The State Board of Education is designated as the
state board to carry out the purposes and the provisions of the
acts of Congress, and is given all necessary power and au-
thority to cooperate with the United States Commissioner of
Education and the United States Office of Education in the
administration of the provisions of the federal acts and of this
article (commencing with Section 6251).
   SEC. 3. Section 6257 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 6257 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   6257. The governing board of each school district partici-
pating in a vocational education program shall appoint a
vocational education advisory committee to develop recommen-
dations on the program and to provide liaison between the
district and potential employers.
   The committee shall consist of one or more representatives
 of the general public knowledgeable about the disadvantaged,
students, teachers, business, industry, school administration,
and the local office of the Department of Human Eesources
Development.
   SEC. 5. Article 10.3 (commencing with Section 6261) is
 added to Chapter 6 of Division 6 of the Education Code, to
 read:

  Article 10.3. California Advisory Council on Vocational
              Education and Technical Training
   6261. The California Advisory Council on Vocational Edu-
cation and Technical Training, hereinafter referred to as the
council in this article, is hereby created, consisting of the Di-
rector of Human Eesources Development or his representa-
tive, a member of the Assembly Education Committee ap-
pointed by the Speaker of the Assembly, a member of the
Senate Education Committee appointed by the Senate Com-
mittee on Eules, and 20 members appointed by the Governor
to serve four-year terms. Of the initial appointments by the
Governor, five shall serve one year, two years, three years, and
four years.
    6261.5. The Members of the Legislature appointed to the
 council pursuant to Section 6261 shall meet with, and partici-
 pate in, the work of the council to the extent that such par-
 ticipation is not incompatible with their positions as Members
 of the Legislature. The Members of the Legislature appointed
 to the council shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing
power. For the purposes of Articles 10 (commencing with
 Section 6251), 10.3 (commencing with Section 6261), and 10.5
3158               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              m } ^ 1555

 (commencing with Section 6276) of this chapter, such Mem-
bers of the Legislature shall constitute a joint legislative com-
mittee on the subject of such articles and shall have the powers
 and duties imposed upon such committees by the Joint Bules
of the Senate and Assembly.
    6262. The members appointed by the Governor shall in-
 clude :
     (a) One person familiar with the vocational education needs
 and problems of organized labor.
    (b) One person familiar with the vocational needs and prob-
 lems of management.
     (c) One person representing the state industrial and eco-
 nomic development agencies.
     (d) Three persons representing the community colleges and
 other institutions of higher education, area vocational schools,
 technical institutes, and postsecondary or adult education
 agencies or institutions which may provide programs of voca-
 tional or technical education and training.
     (e) One person familiar with the administration of state
 and local vocational education programs.
    (f) One person having special knowledge, expertise, or
qualifications with respect to vocational education who is not
involved in the administration of state or local vocational edu-
cation programs.
     (g) One person familiar with programs of technical and
vocational education, including programs of comprehensive
 secondary schools.
    (h) One person representing local community college agen-
cies.
    (i) One person representing local secondary education agen-
cies.
    (j) One person representing community college governing
boards.
    (k) One person representing secondary school governing
boards.
    (I) One person representing elementary schools or elemen-
tary school boards.
    (m) One person representing the manpower and vocational
education agencies in the state and the comprehensive Area
Manpower Planning System of the state.
    (n) One person representing school districts with large
concentrations of academically, socially, economically, and cul-
turally disadvantaged pupils.
    (o) One person with special knowledge, experience, or
qualifications with respect to the special educational needs of
physically or mentally retarded persons.
    (p) Two persons representing the general public, one of
whom shall represent and be knowledgeable about the disad-
vantaged, who are not qualified for membership under any of
the preceding subdivisions.
                    1969
Ch. 1555]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3159

    6263. Members of the council shall serve without compen-
 sation, except that they shall receive their actual necessary
 expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
    6264. The council shall have the following duties and re-
 sponsibilities :
     (a) Advise the State Board of Education and the Board
 of Governors of the California Community Colleges in the
 development and preparation of annual and long-range state
 plans for occupational education and training.
    (b) Evaluate programs of occupational education and train-
 ing maintained by local educational agencies, and publish and
 distribute the results thereof.
    (c) Prepare and submit through the State Board of Edu-
 cation and Board of Governors of the California Community
 Colleges an annual evaluation report to the Legislature, United
 States Commissioner of Education, and National Advisory
 Council on Vocational Education.
   6265. The council is authorized to obtain the services of
such professional, technical, and clerical personnel as may be
necessary to enable it to carry out its functions under this
article, and to contract for such services as may be necessary
to enable it to carry out its evaluation functions.
   6266. There is in the Department of Education a vocational
education staff responsible for the design, implementation, and
maintenance of a basic integrated statewide information sys-
 tem for vocational education and technical training. The data
gathering and analysis capabilities of the system shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
    (a) Maintain comprehensive inventory of all programs of
all vocational education and technical training programs which
are maintained by the public schools.
    (b) Facilitate an annual evaluation of programs of voca-
tional education and technical training, including an analysis
of the costs of individual programs, enrollment defined in
terms of secondary students, postsecondary students and
adults, the numbers of graduates of programs, the number of
trainees trained for specific entry level occupations, dropout
rates, and placement data.
   (c) Provide for performing local, area, and state job pro-
jections and anticipated requirements of employers.
   (d) Facilitate the preparation of reports required by state
and federal agencies.
   (e) Support the functions of the California Advisory Coun-
cil on Vocational Education and Technical Training.
   6267. The system provided for in Section 6266 shall
be designed, implemented, and maintained in accordance with
Article 4 (commencing with Section 471) of Chapter 3 of
Division 2.
   SEC. 6. Article 10.4 (commencing with Section 6268) is
added to Chapter 6 of Division 6 of the Education Code, to
read:
3160              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                TQ^ ^ 5 5 5

                Article 10.4. Vocational Areas
    6268. There are hereby created within the state a number
of vocational areas, not to exceed 15, which shall have bound-
aries as determined, within 90 days after the effective date of
this section, by the Director of Human Eesources Development,
the Director of Vocational Education, and the Chancellor of
the California Community Colleges. Such areas shall, as far
as possible, be developed along job market lines.
    6268.2. In a minimum of four vocational areas, an area
vocational committee shall be selected pursuant to Section
6268.8 to assume the responsibility of developing recommenda-
tions for the short-term improvement of existing vocational
educational programs and a master plan for the improvement
of vocational education within the area.
    The selection of such vocational areas shall be made by the
Director of Human Resources Development, the Director of
Vocational Education, and the Chancellor of the California
Community Colleges. The selected vocational areas shall be
sufficiently representative of all the vocational areas to demon-
strate the feasibility of extending this system of planning
throughout the state.
    6268.4. Development of a master plan pursuant to Section
 6268.2 shall include, but not be limited to, consideration of the
following areas:
    (a) Assess whether a proper assortment, as measured by
skill demands determined from local and area employment
surveys, of programs in the educational curriculum is offered
in the area, while avoiding unnecessary duplication of pro-
grams.
     (b) Review quality standards of vocational instruction in
the area.
    (c) Assure that information derived from followup studies
is shared among educational institutions offering vocational
education.
    (d) Encourage and assist local school districts to offer ef-
fective prevocational programs.
     (e) Insure that guidance and counseling information rela-
 tive to vocational education and occupational experience is
made available to all junior high school, high school, and jun-
 ior college students in the area, and insure that a substantial
part of such guidance and counseling is provided by business
 and industry personnel.
     (f) Assist in arranging, wherever appropriate, for high
school juniors and seniors to take courses in junior college
vocational programs.
   .(g) Assure that workable arrangements are established to
grant advanced placement in vocational programs to outstand-
 ing high school graduates.
     (h) Assure that remedial programs are available, in high
 schools, in adult schools, and in junior colleges, to allow young
 people who desire to enter technical programs (or who desire
                    1969
Ch. 15551                  REGULAR SESSION                 3161

to enter apprenticeship), but who lack the academic qualifica-
tions, to have the opportunity to acquire those qualifications.
    (i) Encourage the greater use of cooperative or work ex-
perience education programs.
    (j) Inform the public of the merits and strengths of voca-
tional education to the end that vocational education will be
moved toward a parity of esteem with all other curricular
areas.
   6268.6. Each area vocational committee shall be composed
of 12 members, as follows: three representatives of the gov-
erning boards of junior college districts within the area; three
representatives of school districts maintaining high schools
within the area; one representative of the Department of
Human Resources Devel6pment; and five public members who,
through knowledge and experience, are representative of the
industries in the area.
    6268.8. The members of each area vocational committee
shall be selected in the following manner:
    (a) Each of the three representatives of the governing
boards of local junior college districts within the area shall be
selected by a majority vote of the governing boards of junior
colleges within the area.
    (b) Each of the three representatives of school districts
maintaining high schools within the area shall be selected by
a majority vote of the governing boards of school districts
maintaining high schools within the area.
    (c) The representative of the Department of Human Re-
sources Development shall be selected by the Director of Hu-
man Resources Development.
    (d) Each of the five public members shall be selected jointly
by the Director of Human Resources Development, the Di-
 rector of Vocational Education, and the Chancellor of the Cal-
 ifornia Community Colleges.
    6268.10. Members of each area vocational committee shall
 serve without compensation, but they shall receive their actual
 and necessary traveling expenses in performing their duties
 under this article.
    6268.12. Each area vocational committee shall, within one
 year of the initial meeting of the committee, develop and sub-
 mit to the State Board of Education and to the Board of Gov-
 ernors of the California Community Colleges, and to any other
 appropriate policymaking body, an area master plan providing
 for maximum coordination between vocational, technical, adult,
 and continuation education agencies within the area, together
 with recommendations for the implementation of such master
 plan in the area.
    6268.14. Each area vocational committee shall, no later
 than March 1, 1970, report to the State Board of Education,
 the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges,
 and the California Advisory Council on Vocational Education
3162               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               fQn   ^555

and Technical Training on the progress of each committee
toward the development of a master plan, and the committee's
recommendations on short-term improvement of existing voca-
tional education programs.
   The State Board of Education and the Board of Governors
of the California Community Colleges shall report to the Legis-
lature on the progress reports of the vocational education com-
mittees within 60 days after the board shall have received such
reports.
   6268.16. Within one year of the receipt of the area plans
from each of the area vocational committees, the State Board
of Education and the Board of Governors of the California
Community Colleges, with the advice of the California Ad-
visory Council on Vocational Education and Technical Train-
ing, shall develop, and thereafter shall amend annually, the
state master plan in accordance with area master plans.
   6268.18. The State Board of Education and the Board of
Governors of the California Community Colleges, jointly, shall
submit annually to the Legislature the state master plan de-
scribed in Section 6268.16, together with proposed legislation
for the implementation of the master plan.
   6268.20. I t is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this
article that the area vocational committees formed hereunder,
in forming their area master plans, shall give due considera-
tion to all relevant planning efforts in the vocational area, both
prior and concurrent, and to planning guidelines developed
by the State Board of Education, the Board of Governors of
the California Community Colleges, and the California Man-
power Coordinating Committee.
   6268.22. I t is the intent of the Legislature in enacting this
article that the vocational education staff of the State Board
of Education and the Board of Governors of the California
Community Colleges, through the joint coordination of the
Director of Vocational Education and the Chancellor of the
California Community Colleges, shall be responsible for its
implementation and administration.
   SEC. 7. The provisions of Article 10.4 (commencing with
Section 6268) of Chapter 6 of Division 6 of the Education
Code, as added by this act, shall become operative January 1,
1970, with the exception of Section 6268 of the Education
Code, which shall become operative on the 61st day following
final adjournment of the 1969 Kegular Session of the Legis-
lature.
   SEC. 8. The State Board of Education and the Board of
Governors of the California Community Colleges, in approv-
ing any state plans for the administration of federal funds to
be received for the purposes of vocational education or any
other purpose for which the administration of Section 6268 of
the Education Code could be funded, shall give due considera-
                        1969
Ch. 1556]                      HEGULAH SESSION                    3^63

tion to the provisions of such financial support as may be nec-
essary to implement and administer this article.
   Furthermore, the State Board of Education and the Board
of Governors of the California Community Colleges shall give
due consideration to the assurance that the annual financial
support of the California Advisory Council on Vocational Edu-
cation and Technical Training shall be one hundred fifty thou-
sand dollars ($150,000) from whatever funds that are available
for this purpose.
   SEO. 9. This act may be known as the Vocational and
Technical Training Act of 1969.


                           CHAPTER 1556
An act to add Article 10 (commencing with Section 6260) to
  Chapter 1 of Division 5 of the Elections Code, relating to
  presidential primary elections.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 10 (commencing with Section 6260) is
added to Chapter 1 of Division 5 of the Elections Code, to read :
                  Article 10. Write-In Candidates
   6260. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, a space
shall be provided on the presidential primary ballot for an
elector to write in the name of a candidate for President of
the United States.
   6261. Any person who believes his name may be used as a
write-in candidate for President of the United States shall,
not later than eight days before the primary election, file his
endorsement of his write-in candidacy with the Secretary of
State, or no votes shall be counted for him.
   6262. Any person who receives, by write-in vote, a plurality
of the votes cast for President of the United States shall,
within 10 days after the primary election, file a list of dele-
gates to the national convention of his political party with
the Secretary of State in the manner prescribed in Sections
6Q53 and 6054.
   6263. If the candidate fails to file a list of delegates, the
state central committee of the party in whose primary the
candidate received the plurality vote shall within 10 days of
the end of the 10-day period required in Section 6262, file a
list of delegates with the Secretary of State. The delegation
shall go to the convention unpledged to any candidate.
3164               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      rQJj J 5 5 7

                        CHAPTER 1557
An act to amend and renumber Section 507 of, and to add
  Section 531.4 to, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating
  to property escaping assessment.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 507 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended and renumbered, to read:
   531.3. If the assessor requires an assessee to describe per-
sonal property in such detail as shows the cost thereof but
the assessee omits to report the cost of the property accurately,
notwithstanding that this information is available to the as-
sessee, to the extent that this omission on the part of the assessee
causes the assessor not to assess the property or to assess it at
a lower valuation than he would enter upon the roll were the
cost reported to him accurately, that portion of the property
as to which the cost is unreported, in whole or in part, shall
be assessed as required by law. If the omission is willful or
fraudulent, the penalty and interest provided in Sections 504
and 506 shall be added to the additional assessment; otherwise
only the interest provided in Section 506 shall be so added.
    SEC. 2. Section 531.4 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
 Code, to read:
   531.4. When an assessee files with the assessor a property
statement or report on a form prescribed by the board with
 respect to property held or used in a profession, trade or busi-
ness and the statement fails to report any taxable tangible
property accurately, regardless of whether this information is
 available to the assessee, to the extent that this failure causes
the assessor not to assess the property or to assess it at a lower
valuation than he would enter on the roll if the property had
been reported to him accurately, that portion of the property
which is not reported accurately, in whole or in part, shall be
 assessed as required by law. If the failure to report the prop-
 erty accurately is willful or fraudulent, the penalty and in-
 terest provided in Sections 504 and 506 shall be added to the
 additional assessment; otherwise only the interest provided in
 Section 506 shall be added.


                         CHAPTER 1558
An act to amend Section 22014 of, and to add Sections 20601.6,
  20750.35, 21251.141, 21293.6, 21364.8 and 21385.6 to, the
  Government Code, relating to the Public Employees' Retire-
  ment System.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
                     1969
Ch. 15581                   REGULAR SESSION                     2165

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 20601.6 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   20601.6. Section 20601.5 shall not apply to a forestry mem-
ber with respect to compensation received on or after the effec-
tive date of this section.
   SEC. 2. Section 20750.35 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   20750.35. The contribution of a public employer to the
retirement fund with respect to forestry members provided
by any and all other provisions of this chapter is increased
by a sum equal to twelve-hundredths (0.12) of 1 percent of
the compensation paid such member by such employer.
   SEC. 3. Section 21251.141 is added to the Government
Code, to read:
   21251.141. Section 21251.14 shall not apply to the compu-
tation of a retirement allowance based on any forestry service
of a forestry member whose retirement is effective on or after
the effective date of this section.
   SEC. 4. Section 21293.6 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   21293.6. Section 21293.5 shall not apply to a forestry mem-
ber whose retirement for industrial disability is effective on or
after the effective date of this section.
    SEC. 5. Section 21364.8 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   21364.8. Section 21364.7 shall not apply to a special death
benefit or continued allowance payable with respect to a for-
estry member whose death occurs or whose retirement is effec-
tive on or after the effective date of this section.
    SEC. 6. Section 21385.6 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
    21385.6. Notwithstanding Sections 21384 and 21385, this
article shall apply to a state member or a local member whose
employer is subject to this article and whose services were in-
cluded in the federal system in any period after such inclu-
sion is terminated.
    SEC. 7. Section 22014 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    22014. " F i r e m a n " as used in this part means any employee
 of the Division of Forestry, Department of Conservation, em-
 ployed to perform duties now performed under the following
 titles: State Forester; all classes of rangers; all classes of dep-
 uty state foresters; all classes of fire prevention and law en-
 forcement officers; all classes of foresters; all classes of forestry
 foreman; all classes of forestry trainees; all classes of forestry
 equipment and civil engineers; forestry superintendent, con-
 servation camps; forest firetruck driver; forestry fireman;
 forest firefighter; equipment maintenance foreman or forestry
 equipment operator; or employed in any other position the
3166               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      fCh. 1559

principal duties of which consist of active fire suppression, and
any employee of a public agency other than the state or Uni-
versity of California in a position designated as a fireman's
position by the board; provided, such designation is not con-
trary to any definition, ruling or regulation relating to the
term "fireman" issued by the federal agency for the purposes
of Section 218(d) (5) (A) of the Social Security Act.
   SEC. 8. This act shall become operative on the first of the
month following the month in which statutes enacted at the
1969 Regular Session are effective.


                         CHAPTER 1559
        An act to amend Section 13168 of the Education
                 Code, relating to life diplomas.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 13168 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   13168. Only candidates are eligible who have had at least
48 school months of successful school experience, at least 21
of which have been in the public schools of the state, in schools
maintained for minors by publicly controlled California insti-
tutions, or in private high schools accredited by the "Western
Association of Schools and Colleges Secondary Commission.


                        CHAPTER 1560
An act to add Part 5.5 (commencing with Section 19955) to
  Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to build-
  ings.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The. people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. P a r t 5.5 (commencing with Section 19955) is
added to Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:

 PART 5.5. ACCESS TO PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS
    BY PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS
   19955. The purpose of this part is to insure that public
accommodations constructed in this state with private funds
adhere to the provisions of Chapter 7 (commencing with Sec-
tion 4450) of Division 5 of Title 1 of the Government Code.
                       1969
Ch. 15611                     REGULAR SESSION                     3167

For the purposes of this part "public accommodation" means
a building, structure, or improved area which is used primarily
by the general public as a place of gathering or amusement,
including theaters, restaurants, hotels, and stadiums.
   19956. All public accommodations constructed in this
state shall conform to the provisions of Chapter 7 (commenc-
ing with Section 4450) of Division 5 of Title 1 of the Govern-
ment Code; and except that in multistoried buildings, floors
or levels above the first floor or ground level are exempt from
the requirements of this chapter if a reasonable portion of all
facilities and accommodations normally sought and used by
the public in such a building are accessible to, and usable by,
the physically handicapped.
   19957. I n cases of practical difficulty, unnecessary hard-
ship, or extreme differences, a building department respon-
sible for the enforcement of this part may grant exceptions
from the literal requirements of the standards and specifica-
tions required by this part or permit the use of other methods
or materials, but only when it is clearly evident that equiva-
lent facilitation and protection are thereby secured.
   19958. The building department of every city, county, or
city and county shall enforce this part within the territorial
area of its city, county, or city and county. The responsibility
for enforcing Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 4450) of
Division 5 of Title 1 of the Government Code in its application
under this part shall be by such building department within
the territorial area of its city, county, or city and county.
   "Building department" means the department, bureau, or
officer charged with the enforcement of laws or ordinances reg-
ulating the erection or construction, or both the erection and
construction, of buildings.
   SEC. 2. The provisions of P a r t 5.5 (commencing with Sec-
tion 19955) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code
shall become operative on July 1, 1970.


                           CHAPTER 1561
An act to amend Sections 33131, 33334, 33396, and 33416 of,
  and to add Section 33142 to, the Health and Safety Code,
  and to amend Section 214 of the Revenue and Taxation
  Code, relating to community redevelopment and housing.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 33131 of the Health and Safety Code
is amended to read:
   33131. An agency may:

   100—1954
3168               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQn   JggJ

    (a) From time to time prepare and carry out plans for
the improvement, rehabilitation, and redevelopment of blighted
 areas.
    (b) Disseminate redevelopment information.
    (c) Prepare applications for various federal programs and
grants relating to housing and community development and
 plan and carry out such programs within authority otherwise
 granted by this part, at the request of the legislative body.
   SEC. 2. Section 33142 is added to the Health and Safety
 Code, to read:
   33142. The legislative body of the community shall file with
the Secretary of State a certified copy of any ordinance sus-
pending or dissolving an agency pursuant to Section 33140 or
33141.
   SEC. 3. Section 33334 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
   33334. Every redevelopment plan shall describe generally
the proposed method of financing the redevelopment of the
project area.
   SEC. 4. Section 33396 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   33396. An agency at the request of the legislative body of
the community may accept a conveyance of real property (lo-
cated either within or outside a survey area) owned by a public
entity and declared surplus by the public entity, or owned by
a private entity.
   The agency may dispose of such property to private persons
or to public or private entities, by sale or long-term lease for
development. All or any part of the funds derived from the
sale or lease of such property may at the discretion of the
legislative body of the community be paid to the community,
or to the public entity from which any such property was
acquired.
   SEC. 5. Section 33416 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   33416. In order to facilitate the rehousing of families and
single persons displaced by any governmental action, an agency,
at the request of the legislative body of the community, may
dispose of the real property acquired under the provisions of
Section 33396, by sale or long-term lease, for use as, or develop-
ment of, housing for such displaced persons.
   SEC. 6. Section 214 of the Kevenue and Taxation Code is
amended to read:
   214. Property used exclusively for religious, hospital, sci-
entific, or charitable purposes owned and operated by com-
munity chests, funds, foundations or corporations organized
and operated for religious, hospital, scientific, or charitable
purposes is exempt from taxation if:
    (1) The owner is not organized or operated for profit; pro-
vided, that in the case of hospitals, such organization shall not
be deemed to be organized or operated for profit, if during the
                    1969
Ch. 1561]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3169

immediate preceding fiscal year the excess of operating reve-
nues, exclusive of gifts, endowments and grants-in-aid, over
operating expenses shall not have exceeded a sum equivalent
to 10 percent of such operating expenses. As used herein, oper-
ating expenses shall include depreciation based on cost of re-
placement and amortization of, and interest on, indebtedness;
    (2) No part of the net earnings of the owner inures' to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual;
    (3) The property is used for the actual operation of the
exempt activity, and does not exceed an amount of property
reasonably necessary to the accomplishment of the exempt pur-
pose ;
    (4) The property is not used or operated by the owner or
by any other person so as to benefit any officer, trustee, di-
rector, shareholder, member, employee, contributor, or bond-
holder of the owner or operator, or any other person, through
the distribution of profits, payment of excessive charges or
compensations or the more advantageous pursuit of their busi-
ness or profession;
    (5) The property is not used by the owner or members
thereof for fraternal or lodge purposes, or for social club pur-
poses except where such use is clearly incidental to a primary
religious, hospital, scientific, or charitable purpose;
    (6) The property is irrevocably dedicated to religious, char-
itable, scientific, or hospital purposes and upon the liquidation,
dissolution or abandonment of the owner will not inure to the
benefit of any private person except a fund, foundation or cor-
poration organized and operated for religious, hospital, scien-
tific, or charitable purposes;
    (7) The property, if used exclusively for scientific purposes,
is used by a foundation or institution which, in addition to
complying with the foregoing requirements for the exemption
of charitable organizations in general, has been chartered b y
the Congress of the United States (except that this require-
ment shall -not apply when the scientific purposes are medical
research), and whose objects are the encouragement or conduct
of scientific investigation, research and discovery for the bene-
fit of the community at large.
    The exemption provided for herein shall be known as t h e
 "welfare exemption." This exemption shall be in addition to
 any other exemption now provided by law. This section shall
not be construed to enlarge the college exemption. P r o p e r t y
used exclusively for school purposes of less than collegiate
 grade and owned and operated by religious, hospital or chari-
table funds, foundations or corporations, which property a n d
 funds, foundations or corporations meet all of the require-
 ments of this section, shall be deemed to be within the exemp-
 tion provided for in Section lc of Article X I I I of the Con-
 stitution of the State of California and this section.
3170               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      TQJ^ 15g2

   Property used exclusively for nursery school purposes and
owned and operated by religious, hospital or charitable funds,
foundations or corporations, which property and funds, foun-
dations or corporations meet all the requirements of this
section, shall be deemed to be within the exemption provided
for in Section lc of Article X I I I of the Constitution of the
State of California and this section.
   Property used exclusively for a noncommercial educational
FM broadcast station or an educational television station and
owned and operated by religious, hospital, scientific or chari-
table funds, foundations or corporations meeting all of the
requirements of this section, shall be deemed to be within the
exemption provided for in Section lc of Article X I I I of
the Constitution of the State of California and this section.
   Property used exclusively for housing and related facilities
for elderly or handicapped families and financed by the fed-
eral government pursuant to Section 202 of Public Law 86-372
 (12 U.S.C. 1701q), as amended, or Section 236 of Public Law
90-448 (12 U.S.C. 1715z), and owned and operated by reli-
gious, hospital, scientific or charitable funds, foundations or
corporations meeting all of the requirements of this section
shall be deemed to be within the exemption provided for in
Section lc of Article X I I I of the Constitution of the State of
California and this section.


                        CHAPTER 1562
An act to add Part 9 (commencing with Section 37500) to
  Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to
  housing.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary ol State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Part 9 (commencing with Section 37500) is
added to Division 24 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:

              PART 9. LOW-INCOME HOME
                OWNERSHIP TRAINING
              CHAPTER 1.      LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS

   37500. The Legislature finds that a limited supply of low-
rent public housing units exist in this state to serve the hous-
ing needs of low-income families.
   37501. The Legislature further finds and declares that
housing is frequently denied low-income families because of
their performance in home management and maintenance.
  37502. The Legislature further finds and declares that the
solution to the low-rent housing problem in the state must
                     1969
Ch. 15621                   REGULAR SESSION                 3171

come from the efforts of both the private and the public sector,
and that legislative proposals which can promote a joint effort
by these sectors are in the best interests of the people of the
state.
   37503. The Legislature further finds and declares that ex-
isting federal programs providing low-rent housing in private
accommodations and home ownership opportunities for low-
income families can contribute greatly toward individual self-
sufficiency and greater public acceptance of low-income hous-
ing.
   37504. If is therefore the policy of the Legislature of the
 State of California to encourage local housing authorities to
provide adequate training to low-income families in home man-
agement and maintenance with particular emphasis upon the
basic rights and responsibilities of home ownership. Supple-
mental financial assistance will be made available to housing
authorities for use in training low-income families and pro-
viding them with the necessary qualifications to live mean-
ingful lives in low-rent private accommodations.

  CHAPTER 2.  CALIFORNIA LOW-INCOME HOME O W N E R S H I P
           TRAINING AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

   37510. There is hereby established the California Low-In-
come Home Ownership Training and Management Program to
 be administered by the Director of Housing and Community
Development pursuant to the provisions of this part.
   37511. The Director of Housing and Community Develop-
ment shall adopt such reasonable regulations concerning the
California Low-Income Home Ownership Training and Man-
agement Program as are necessary to reasonably implement the
provisions of this part.
   37512. The Director of Housing and Community Develop-
 ment, in the administration of the provisions of this part, shall
consult with an advisory committee which he shall appoint a n d
which shall serve during his tenure as director. The committee
shall consist of five members. Of these, three members shall be
appointed from and be representative of the following a r e a s :
one from the real estate industry, one from the savings a n d
loan industry, and one from local government. Two members
shall be appointed from the public at large.
   37513. The Director of Housing and Community Develop-
ment is authorized to make grants to any duly established
housing authority or nonprofit organization or developer of
housing under the provisions of Section 235 of the National
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z) for families whose incomes for
continued occupancy in public housing does not exceed t h e in-
come limits of local housing authorities for the applicant com-
munity. These grants shall be made to assist in the establish-
ment of a home ownership training and management p r o g r a m
by the authority, nonprofit organization, or developer. To qiial-
3172               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   TQfo 15(53

ify for such a grant, an applicant shall submit to the director
an application showing a comprehensive plan for the training
and qualification of low-income families, presently occupying
conventional public housing, for home ownership.
   37514. The Department of Housing and Community Devel-
opment shall implement this program as a pilot study, limited
to housing authorities and other nonprofit organizations, and
as part of the study shall select applicants from at least four
major urban centers, as determined by the department, to de-
termine the desirability of preoccupancy training for housing
low-income families. The department shall make a final report
of its findings and recommendations to the Legislature not
later than March 15, 1972.
   37515. I t is the intent of the Legislature that the provisions
of Section 204 of Public Law 90-577 shall be utilized to the
extent necessary to accomplish the maximum acquisition and
utilization of federal funds available for programs under this
part in the most direct and efficient manner.
   37516. This part shall be operative notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 37111.
   37517. This part shall terminate on June 30,1972.


                         CHAPTER 1563
An act to add Article 2.7 (commencing with Section 290) to
  Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1 of, and to add Sections
  304 and 305 to, the Health and Safety Code, relating to
  health care.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Article 2.7 (commencing with Section 290) is
added to Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the Health and
Safety Code, to read:

                   Article 2.7.    Prenatal Care
   290. Every licensed physician and surgeon or other person
engaged in the prenatal care of a pregnant woman, or attend-
ing such woman at time of delivery, shall obtain or cause to
be obtained a blood specimen of such woman at the time of
the first professional visit or within 10 days thereafter in the
case of prenatal care and within 24 hours of delivery if not
obtained prior to delivery.
   291. (a) The blood specimen obtained shall be submitted to
a licensed clinical laboratory for a determination of rhesus
 (Rh) blood type and the results reported (1) to the physician
and surgeon or other person engaged in the prenatal care of
                        1969
Ch. 15641                      REGULAR SESSION                    3173

the woman or attending such woman at the time of delivery,
and (2) to the woman tested.
   (b) The State Board of Public Health shall adopt such rules
and regulations as it determines are reasonably necessary for
the implementation of the provisions of subdivision (a) of this
section.
   292. The provisions of this article shall not be applicable
if the licensed physician and surgeon or other person engaged
in the prenatal care of a pregnant woman or attending such
woman at time of delivery has knowledge of the pregnant
woman's blood type and accepts responsibility for the accuracy
of such information.
   293. The provisions of this article shall not apply if the
pregnant woman objects to the test required by this article
on the ground that the test conflicts with her religious beliefs
or practices.
   SEC. 2. Section 304 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read:
   304. Every licensed physician and surgeon or other person
attending a newborn infant diagnosed as having had rhesus
 (Kh) isoimmunization hemolytic disease shall report such con-
dition to the State Department of Public Health on report
forms prescribed by the department.
   SEC. 3. Section 305 is added to the Health and Safety
Code, to read :
   305. The State Department of Public Health shall report
the number of reported cases of rhesus (Rh) isoimmunization
hemolytic disease to the Legislature on the fifth legislative day
of the 1971 Regular Session of the Legislature.


                           CHAPTER 1564
An act to add Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 5465) to
  Chapter 6 of Part 3 of Division 5 of the Health and Safety
  Code, relating to bonds.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 5465) is
added to Chapter 6 of Part 3 of Division 5 of the Health and
Safety Code, to read:
                          Article 3.5.    Bonds
  5465. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in any
district which is authorized to provide sewer facilities and the
district is authorized to incur bonded indebtedness after a
favorable vote of two-thirds of the votes cast at an election
held for that purpose, if at the last two such elections such a
3174               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   T Q n 15(35

favorable vote was not received, and if the health officer of the
county in which the principal portion of the district is
located makes a finding that the proceeds of any bond issue
are necessary for the construction of sewage facilities essen-
tial to the public health and such officer certifies that a pres-
ent dangerous hazard to the public health exists, and the gov-
erning body of such district or county shall, in conjunction
with the public health officer, certify that they will cease and
desist in any activity which may contribute to such hazard,
and such finding is concurred in by the State Department of
Public Health and the board of supervisors of such county as
evidenced by resolution, or if the regional water quality con-
trol board issues an order to the district to cease and desist,
and the fact of such order is stated in a resolution, then by
resolution adopted by a four-fifths vote, the district board may
call for a bond election and provide in the resolution calling for
such election that bonds for the district for the amount stated
may be issued and sold if a majority of the votes cast at the
election are in favor of incurring the bonded indebtedness as
proposed. This section shall remain in effect until December 31,
1973, and shall have no force or effect after that date.



                         OHAPTEE 1565
An act to add Chapter 12 (commencing with Section 19100)
  to Part 6 of Division 9 of, and Chapter 7 (commencing with
  Section 19700) to Part 2 of Division 10 as proposed to be
  added by S.B. 840 to, the Welfare and Institutions Code,
  relating to blind rehabilitation services.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Chapter 12 (commencing with Section 19100)
is added to P a r t 6 of Division 9 of the Welfare and Institu-
tions Code, to read:

          CHAPTER 12.      VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION
                          APPEALS BOARD

   19100. There is in the Department of Rehabilitation
a Vocational Rehabilitation Appeals Board consisting of
five members, one of whom shall be designated chairman. The
chairman and the members of the board shall be appointed
by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Senate for
terms of four years. Initially, however, one member shall be
appointed for a term of two years, two members for terms of
three years, and the final member and the chairman for a term
of four years. The members of the board shall be selected for
                     1969
Ch. 15651                   REGULAR SESSION                   3175

their interest and leadership in activities to encourage and
enable the disabled and otherwise disadvantaged to partici-
pate fully in the economic and social life of the community.
   A majority of the members of the board shall be disabled
persons who have overcome their disabilities, including those
who have done so with the assistance of public agencies, and
who are independently self-supporting in the regular busi-
nesses, professions, and occupations of the community.
   19100.1. As used in this chapter:
    (a) " D e p a r t m e n t " means Department of Rehabilitation.
   (b) " B o a r d " means Vocational Eehabilitation Appeals
Board.
    (c) " C l i e n t " means any person or organization applying
for or receiving services or support from the department.
   19101. The members of the board shall receive their actual
and necessary traveling expenses incurred in the course of
such duties.
   19102. The members of the board shall meet regularly not
less frequently than once a month. Special meetings may be
called by the chairman, who shall notify the other members of
the time and place of such meetings.
   Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for
the performance of any duty or for the exercise of any power
of the board.
   19103. The provisions of this chapter relative to the grant-
ing of rehabilitation services and support shall be adminis-
tered fairly to the end that all persons who are eligible and
apply for such services and support shall receive the assistance
to which they are entitled under state and federal statutes a n d
regulations promptly and with due consideration for their
needs.
   Any applicant for, or recipient of, such assistance shall be
informed as to the provisions of eligibility and his responsi-
bility for reporting facts material to a correct determination
of his eligibility for assistance.
   Any applicant for, or client of, the Department of Rehabili-
tation who is denied services or support, shall be notified in
writing of the grounds on which such denial is based.
   19104. If any applicant for, or client of, the department is
dissatisfied with any action of the department relating to his
application or receipt of services, or if any person who desires
 to apply for such assistance is refused the opportunity to sub-
mit a signed application therefor and is dissatisfied with such
refusal, he shall, upon filing a request with the department
within one year after the decision or action complained of,
have a right to a review and redetermination by a member or
members of the supervisory staff of the department. The re-
view shall be held and the decision of the reviewer shall be
rendered to the applicant or client within 15 days of the
date the request was filed.
3176               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQJ1_ ^ 5 5 5

   19105. "Within 30 days after receiving the decision of the
reviewer pursuant to Section 19104, if the applicant for, or
client of, the department remains dissatisfied with any action
of the department, he shall, upon filing a petition with the
department, have the right to a fair hearing. The department
shall set such hearings before the Vocational Eehabilitation
Appeals Board and shall give all parties concerned written
notice of the time and place of such hearing. At the hearing,
the applicant or client may appear in person, or with a rep-
resentative of his own choosing.
   19106. In each appeal to the Vocational Rehabilitation Ap-
peals Board, the written notification required by Section 19103
shall form part of the record. The board shall hear all relevant
evidence and shall consider each hearing on the basis of the
policies, rules, and regulations of the department and it shall
render its decision promptly and in writing. The board shall
be empowered to direct the department to grant all appropri-
ate relief within the scope of this chapter.
   19107. Any hearing before the board may be heard by the
board or by a referee designated by the board.
   If a hearing is not heard by the board, a report of the
proceedings shall be prepared by the referee conducting it,
and the report, together with any data the party appealing
may desire, shall be presented to the board for final decision.
The department shall mail a copy of the final decision promptly
to each party. Only the board may make such final decision.
   19108. Factual information relating to eligibility provided
solely by the applicant for, or client of the department con-
tained in applications and records made or kept by any public
officer or agency in connection with the administration of any
vocational rehabilitation program shall be open for inspection
by the applicant or client to which the information relates
and by any other person authorized in writing by such ap-
plicant or client. The written authorization shall be dated and
signed by such applicant or client and shall expire one year
from the date of execution. In the event of any hearing under
the provisions of this chapter, the attorney or authorized
representative of the applicant or client shall be entitled to
inspect the case record relating to the applicant or client prior
to, as well as during, the hearing.
   19109. The applicant or client, within one year after re-
ceiving notice of the board's final decision, may file a petition
with the superior court, under the provisions of Section 1094.5
of the Code of Civil Procedure, praying for a review of the
entire proceedings in the matter, upon questions of law in-
volved in the case. Such review, if granted, shall be the ex-
clusive remedy available to the applicant or client for review
of the board's decision. The board shall be the sole respondent
in such proceedings.
   No filing fee shall be required for the filing of a petition pur-
suant to this section. Any such petition to the superior court
                    1969
Ch. 1565]                  REGULAE SESSION                   3177

shall be entitled to a preference in setting a date for hearing
on the petition. No bond shall be required in the case of any
petition for review, nor in any appeal therefrom. The ap-
plicant or client shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees
and costs, if he obtains a decision in his favor.
   19110. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chap-
ter, if the United States Department of Health, Education,
and "Welfare issues a formal ruling that the authority granted
to the Vocational Rehabilitation Appeals Board to make the
final fair hearing decisions under this chapter renders the
state's vocational rehabilitation plan out of conformity with
federal requirements, such authority shall be vested in the
director of the department during the time that such formal
ruling is in effect. In such event the director of the department
shall be the sole respondent in the proceedings referred to in
Section 19109.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 19700) is
added to P a r t 2 of Division 10, as proposed to be added by
Senate Bill 840, of the Welfare and Institutions Code, to read:

            CHAPTER 7.     VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION
                           APPEALS BOARD

   19700. There is in the department a Vocational Rehabili-
tation Appeals Board consisting of five members, one of whom
shall be designated chairman. The chairman and the members
of the board shall be appointed by the Governor with the ad-
vice and consent of the Senate for terms of four years. Ini-
tially, however, one member shall be appointed for a term
of two years, two members for terms of three years, and the
final member and the chairman for a term of four years. The
members of the board shall be selected for their interest and
leadership in activities to encourage and enable the disabled
and otherwise disadvantaged to participate fully in the eco-
nomic and social life of the community.
   A majority of the members of the board shall be disabled
persons who have overcome their disabilities, including those
who have done so with the assistance of public agencies, and
who are independently self-supporting in the regular busi-
nesses, professions, and occupations of the community.
    19700.1. As used in this chapter " c l i e n t " means any per-
son or organization applying for or receiving services or sup-
port from the department.
    19701. The members of the board shall receive their actual
 and necessary traveling expenses incurred in the course of
 such duties.
    19702. The members of the board shall meet regularly not
 less frequently than once a month. Special meetings may be
called by the chairman, who shall notify the other members
of the time and place of such meetings.
3178     ~        STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ Q i . 1565

   Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for
the performance of any duty or for the exercise of any power
of the board.
   19703. The provisions of this chapter relative to the grant-
ing of rehabilitation services and support shall be administered
fairly to the end that all persons who are eligible and apply
for such services and support shall receive the assistance to
which they are entitled under state and federal statutes and
regulations promptly and with due consideration for their
needs.
   Any applicant for, or recipient of, such assistance shall be
informed as to the provisions of eligibility and his responsi-
bility for reporting facts material to a correct determination
of his eligibility for assistance.
   Any applicant for, or client of, the Department of Rehabili-
tation who is denied services or support, shall be notified in
writing of the grounds on which such denial is based.
   19704. If any applicant for, or client of, the department is
dissatisfied with any action of the department relating to his
application or receipt of services, or if any person who desires
to apply for such assistance is refused the opportunity to sub-
mit a signed application therefor and is dissatisfied with such
refusal, he shall, upon filing a request with the department
within one year after the decision or action complained of,
have a right to a review and redetermination by a member or
members of the supervisory staff of the department. The review
shall be held and the decision of the reviewer shall be ren-
dered to the applicant or client within 15 days of the date the
request was filed.
   19705. Within 30 days after receiving the decision of the
reviewer pursuant to Section 19704, if the applicant for, or
client of, the department remains dissatisfied with any action
of the department, he shall upon filing a petition with the
department, have the right to a fair hearing. The department
shall set such hearing before the Vocational Rehabilitation
Appeals Board and shall give all parties concerned written
notice of the time and place of such hearing. At the hearing,
the applicant or client may appear in person, or with a repre-
sentative of his own choosing.
   19706. In each appeal to the Vocational Rehabilitation Ap-
peals Board, the written notification required by Section 19703
shall form part of the record. The board shall hear all relevant
evidence and shall consider each hearing on the basis of the
policies, rules, and regulations of the department and it shall
render its decision promptly and in writing. The board shall
be empowered to direct the department to grant all appropri-
ate relief within the scope of this chapter.
   19707. Any hearing before the board may be heard by the
board or by a referee designated by the board.
   If a hearing is not heard by the board, a report of the
proceedings shall be prepared by the referee conducting it,
                    1969
Ch. 1565]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3179

 and the report, together with any data the party appealing
 may desire, shall be presented to the board for final decision.
 The department shall mail a copy of the final decision
promptly to each party. Only the board may make such final
 decision.
   19708. Factual information relating to eligibility provided
solely by the applicant for, or client of the department con-
tained in applications and records made or kept by any public
officer or agency in connection with the administration of any
vocational rehabilitation program shall be open for inspection
by the applicant or client to which the information relates
and by any other person authorized in writing by such ap-
plicant or client. The written authorization shall be dated and
signed by such applicant or client and shall expire one year
from the date of execution. In the event of any hearing under
the provisions of this chapter, the attorney or authorized
representative of the applicant or client shall be entitled to
inspect the case record relating to the applicant or client
prior to, as well as during, the hearing.
   19709. The applicant or client, within one year after re-
ceiving notice of the board's final decision, may file a petition
with the superior court, under the provisions of Section 1094.5
of the Code of Civil Procedure, praying for a review of the
entire proceedings in the matter, upon questions of law in-
volved in the case. Such review, if granted, shall be the ex-
clusive remedy available to the applicant or client for review
of the board's decision. The board shall be the sole respondent
in such proceedings.
   No filing fee shall be required for the filing of a petition
pursuant to this section. Any such petition to the superior
court shall be entitled to a preference in setting a date for
hearing on the petition. No bond shall be required in the case
of any petition for review, nor in any appeal therefrom. The
applicant or client shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's
fees and costs, if he obtains a decision in his favor.
   19710. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chap-
ter, if the United States Department of Health, Education,
and Welfare issues a formal ruling that the authority granted
to the Vocational Rehabilitation Appeals Board to make the
final fair hearing decisions under this chapter renders the
state's vocational rehabilitation plan out of conformity with
federal requirements, such authority shall be vested in the
director of the department during the time that such formal
ruling is in effect. In such event the director of the depart-
ment shall be the sole respondent in the proceedings referred
to in Section 19709.
   SEC. 3. Section 2 of this act shall become operative only
if Senate Bill 840 is enacted by the Legislature at its 1969
Regular Session, and in such case at the same time as Senate
Bill 840 takes effect, at which time Section 1 of this act is re-
pealed.
3180                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qfo 15QQ

                         CHAPTER 1566
An act to amend Section 2 of Chapter 1437 of the Statutes of
  1968, relating to the study of harmful drugs, making an
  appropriation therefor.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 2 of Chapter 1437 of the Statutes of
1968, is amended to read:
   Sec. 2. The sum of thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000)
is hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the Depart-
ment of Education for the purpose of continuing the conduct
of the study required by this act.
   This appropriation shall not be made available for expendi-
ture until the Superintendent of Public Instruction has certi-
fied to the State Controller that a request for federal funds
under Title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education
Act of 1965, for purposes of the study to be conducted pur-
suant to Section 1, has been denied.
  SEC. 2. The sum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) is
hereby appropriated from the General Fund to the Depart-
ment of Education for the purpose of continuing the conduct
of the study required by Chapter 1437 of the Statutes of 1968.


                         CHAPTER 1567
An act to add Section 30825 to the PubUc Utilities Code, and
  to amend Section 7252 of, to add Section 7272.7 to, and to
  add Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 37010) to Part 17
  of Division 2 of, the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to
  transit districts.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares that the pur-
pose of the Transit District Public Transportation Improve-
ment Fund provided for in this act and funded by the tax
revenues of a one-half-of-1-percent transactions and use tax
levied one time only for a six-month period by a transit dis-
trict in the territory of a transit district is to aid in the solu-
tion of the existing financial problems confronting mass public
transportation systems now operating in the territories of the
districts, the continuance of which are a matter of state con-
cern. Permitting the transit districts and cities operating pub-
lic transportation systems on the effective date of this act to
                    1969
Ch 1567]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3X81

make application to the State Business and Transportation
Agency for a disbursement of funds collected under this act
is a necessary provision of the general purpose to carry out
the plan under this general law so that the desired public
transportation operations and facilities will continue to be
 available to residents and the people of the state traveling in
populous areas and requiring public transportation to be
 available in an orderly manner and at a time when all areas
throughout the territory of the transit district most urgently
need financial assistance to assure the continuance of public
transportation services and facilities.
   It is the intent of this Legislature that the authority granted
to the board of directors of the transit district to levy the
transactions and use taxes in the manner and for the purposes
authorized by Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 37010)
of Part 17 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
without approval of the voters as otherwise provided for by
the principal act of the transit district, is to meet a critical
financial condition; and is considered as an exception to the
provisions of the principal act of the transit district and not
as a precedent for the levy of similar taxes by the district
board in the future.
   SEC. 2. Section 30825 is added to the Public Utilities Code,
to read:
   30825. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part,
the board of directors of the district is authorized, by ordi-
nance, to impose transactions and use taxes in conformity
with the provisions of P a r t 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code but
only for the period of time and for the purposes authorized
by Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 37010) of P a r t 17
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   SEC. 3. Section 7252 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
as amended by Chapter 180 of the Statutes of 1969, is
amended to read:
   7252. " D i s t r i c t " as used in this part, means the San
Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District, the Santa Clara
County Transit District and the Southern California Rapid
Transit District.
   SEC. 4. Section 7272.7 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   7272.7. The contract referred to in Section 37020 of this
code shall provide that the district shall pay to the board its
costs of preparation to administer and operate the transactions
and use taxes ordinance. The district shall pay preparatory
costs in accordance with the contract. Such costs include all
preparatory costs including costs of developing procedures,
programming for data processing, developing and adopting
appropriate regulations, designing and printing of forms, de-
veloping instructions for the board's staff and for taxpayers,
and other necessary preparatory costs which shall include the
3182                  STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            \Ch.   1567

board's direct and indirect costs as specified by Section 11256
of the Government Code. Any disputes as to the amount of
preparatory costs incurred shall be resolved by the Director of
Finance and his decision shall be final. The maximum amount
of all preparatory costs to be paid by the district shall not in
any event exceed one hundred twenty-five thousand dollars
($125,000).
   SEC. 5. Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 37010) is
added to P a r t 17 of Division 2 of the Eevenue and Taxation
Code, to read:

       Article 1.5.   Transit District Public Transportation
                        Improvement Fund
   37010. The provisions of this article shall be applicable
only within counties having a population of 6,000,000 persons
or more as determined by the last federal decennial census.
The powers of taxation and use of revenues derived therefrom
authorized by this article shall control and govern over any
provision to the contrary in this part or in the principal act
of any transit district.
   37011. As used in this article the following terms have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section unless the context
otherwise requires:
   (a) "Transit District Public Transportation Improvement
Fund." or " f u n d " means the moneys on deposit in the treasury
of the transit district, which are collected under this article
to carry out the purposes of this article. Each transit district
imposing transactions and use taxes pursuant to this article
shall establish such a fund in its treasury.
   (b) " C i t y or transit district transportation improvement
account" means an account established in the fund of the
transit district for the allocation of moneys to the transit dis-
trict or cities to carry out the purposes of this article.
   (c) "Transit district" means a public district organized
pursuant to state law, designated in its enabling legislation
as a rapid transit district, the governing body of which is
either elected by the inhabitants of its territory or appointed
by city or county boards or officers elected by the inhabitants
of its territory, and which is authorized by state law to con-
struct and operate a rapid transit system.
   (d) " C i t y " includes a city and county, and means a city
which operated for one year prior to the effective date of this
section a public transportation system, including any non-
profit corporation or other legal entity wholly owned and con-
trolled by a city.
   (e) "Public transportation system" means any system for
the mass transportation of public passengers operated by a
city or transit district in which the mode of transporting
passengers is by rail, bus or other vehicles which are operated
as grade separated or in conjunction with other vehicular
traffic on public streets, highways, freeways, and bridges.
                      1969
Ch. 1567]                    REGULAR SESSION                      3183

    (f) " S e c r e t a r y " means the Secretary of the State Business
 and Transportation Agency or his duly authorized representa-
tive.
    (g) "Total miles" means the total number of miles the
public passenger conveyances of a public transportation sys-
tem traveled, both in and out of regular passenger service,
between July 1, 1968, and June 30, 1969, inclusive.
   37012. It is the intent of this article to use the existing
statutory procedures and departments of the state in order to
facilitate the administration of this article.
   37013. All moneys collected by the State Board of Equali-
zation from the transactions and use tax levied under this
article shall be transmitted by the board to the district periodi-
cally as promptly as feasible. The transmittals shall be made at
least twice in each calendar quarter. All such funds received
by the district shall be deposited in its Transit District Public
Transportation Improvement F u n d to be administered by the
secretary and disbursed by the district treasurer in the manner
provided for in this article.
   The district treasurer shall reimburse the State Business
and Transportation Agency for its actual and necessary costs
incurred in administering this article out of moneys deposited
in the fund by allocating such costs on a pro rata basis to
the transit district and cities on the mileage allocation formula
set forth in Section 37018.
   37014. All moneys deposited in a Transit District Public
Transportation Improvement F u n d shall be available for ex-
penditure in carrying out the provisions of this article. Each
transit district or city shall keep and maintain accurate and
complete records of the expenditures or uses made of such
funds.
   37015. Moneys deposited in the Transit District Public
Transportation Improvement F u n d shall upon claims pre-
sented to him by the secretary be disbursed by the district
treasurer to the transit district and to cities located in the
territory of the transit district which levies a transactions and
use tax as provided in this article. A transit district or city
shall annually after the effective date of this article file with
the secretary a budget or a financial plan for the following
year explaining and describing the public transportation sys-
tem which it provides in the area of its operations accom-
panied by such other documents as may be requested by the
secretary, including annual financial statements accompanied
by a report of certified public accountants, and information
to show operating and capital financial expenses and require-
ments, needed capital improvements or repairs, a statement of
financial needs, payments of principal and interest on bonded
or other indebtedness, depreciation, and any other documents
or information related to the operation of its system or the
financing thereof.
3184               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [•0J1_ 1567

   Prior to the time the secretary authorizes any disbursements
pursuant to this article, each city and transit district entitled
to file a claim shall file a verified statement of the total miles
its public passenger conveyances traveled between July 1,
1968, and June 30,1969, inclusive.
   37016. After the secretary has received the budgets or fi-
nancial plans and other information described under Section
37015, the secretary shall review them. The secretary shall
promulgate rules and regulations for the disbursement of the
moneys deposited in each Transit District Public Transporta-
tion Improvement F u n d to the separate accounts of the transit
district and of the cities. The rules and regulations may be
revised by the secretary from time to time. Such rules and
regulations shall provide for the orderly and periodic distribu-
tion of funds to the transit districts or cities operating public
transportation systems so that in the areas in which the transit
district or cities provide services there will be a continued
orderly improvement or maintenance of the systems by the
use of moneys disbursed from the fund.
   37017. A transit district or city which has filed a budget
or financial plan as required by Section 37015 may request
the quarterly or monthly disbursement of funds from its ac-
count by filing with the secretary a public transportation claim,
in the form provided in the rules and regulations of the secre-
tary, setting forth its estimated financial needs required to
meet its capital and operating requirements, including current
acquisition or replacement of rolling stock, construction of
facilities, expenses for repairs, maintenance and depreciation,
and the payment of principal and interest on its bonded in-
debtedness or other indebtedness, including equipment trust
certificates. The public transportation claim filed by the transit
district or cities shall evidence the actual need of financial
assistance for its expenditures and operations over its finan-
cial receipts and revenues available to meet such expenditures
and operations from all sources as estimated and filed with
the secretary for the following year (or part thereof in the
case of the first year). Such budget period shall be on either
a fiscal period, commencing on the first day of July of one
year and ending on the last day of June of the following year,
or on a calendar year basis, unless a different time or period
is authorized or permitted by the secretary. The secretary shall
review the budgets and financial plans filed by the transit
district or cities and shall, from an analysis and evaluation
thereof, determine the estimated financial assistance required
for the current year by each such transit district or city which
amount when determined shall constitute and be called the
approved annual public transportation claim of the transit
district or cities. The approved annual public transportation
claim shall be transmitted by the secretary to the district treas-
urer who may rely upon it in making quarterly or monthly dis-
bursements, as the case may be. The transit district or city
                     1969   RE
Ch. 15671                        G U L A R SESSION            3185

 shall be entitled to withdraw such amount of money annually
 from the fund during the year (or part thereof in the case of
 the first year) if such moneys are available to a transit district
 or city as provided in this article based upon the maximum
 amount of moneys in its account available to be disbursed and
 against which the transit district or city is entitled to with-
 draw. The approved annual public transportation claim of the
 transit district or city shall be reviewed by the secretary and
 may be redetermined, upon his own action, or upon the request
 of a transit district or city, either during the current year or
thereafter, if the annual financial needs of the transit district
 or city differs substantially from that of the approved annual
 public transportation claim. The secretary in determining such
 approved annual public transportation claims shall have full
 access to the books, records and accounts of any transit dis-
trict or city.
    37018. The secretary before approving the annual public
transportation claims and transmitting them to the district
treasurer shall have first ascertained from the district treas-
urer the amount of money available to the transit district and
to each city. A transit district or city shall be eligible to with-
draw from the moneys collected from a one-time levy of the
one-half-of-1-percent transactions and use tax and deposited in
the particular transit district fund those moneys in the ac-
count approved for expenditure by the secretary for the par-
ticular transit district or city. The district treasurer after hav-
ing received a report from the State Board of Equalization
transmitting the moneys collected and the moneys, less ex-
penses or refunds, have been deposited by the district treas-
urer, shall allocate to the account of each city located within
the transit district and which operated for one year prior to
the operative date of this section a public transportation sys-
tem a portion of the moneys collected under the transactions
and use tax levied in the territory of the transit district in
which each city is located based upon the proportion which
the total miles traveled by the conveyances of each public
transportation system operated by a city bears to the total
miles traveled by the conveyances of all public transportation
systems operated by the district and cities entitled to a dis-
bursement pursuant to this article, as determined by the sec-
retary. The balance of the moneys collected and deposited in
the Transit District Public Transportation Improvement F u n d
from the one-time six-month levy of the transactions and use
tax in the territory of the particular transit district shall be
allocated by the district treasurer to the account of the transit
district which levied the transactions and use tax. The moneys
so allocated and held in the account of each transit district or
city shall be expended and disbursed as provided in this article.
Interest received upon moneys held by the treasurer of the
transit district pursuant to this article shall be allocated
to the accounts of the transit district or cities in proportion to
3186               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r ^ . 1§Q<J

the amounts of money allocable to the respective accounts of
the transit district or cities.
   37019. If at any time the secretary determines that it is
in the public interest that a revised budget or financial plan
be filed by a transit district or city, or that because of changed
conditions or circumstances that a transit district or city
should be granted an amount different from its approved an-
nual public transportation claim, the secretary shall so direct
and authorize the filing of an amended, revised or new esti-
mated budget or financial plan and may issue an amended,
revised or new approved annual public transportation claim
for that year. In considering the amount of money estimated
to be collected and available for distribution and disbursement
the secretary shall take into consideration any funds not allo-
cated or expended under an approved public transportation
claim during a preceding year or years. The secretary is fur-
thermore authorized to permit a transit district or city to file
an estimated budget or financial plan and to issue an ap-
proved public transportation claim covering its financial needs
over a period of more than one year, but not to exceed four
years, if the financial requirements of the transit district or
city demand, because of factors or conditions related to its
transportation system, the planning of capital or operating
expenditures for more than a one-year period after taking into
consideration the maximum amount which the transit district
or city has deposited to its account and which it may reason-
ably be entitled to be eligible to withdraw before its particular
separate account is exhausted. The secretary may take into
consideration in administering this program all income, includ-
ing subsidies, tax revenues or other sources of income, which
any transit district or city receives or may become entitled to
receive during the period for which an approved public trans-
portation claim may be effective.
   37020. After the effective date of this article, the board of
directors of a transit district may, by ordinance, impose one
time only for a period of not to exceed six months a one-half-
of-1-percent transactions and use tax as provided under the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of this
division without the approval of the voters as is, or may be,
otherwise required under this code or the principal act of the
transit district. The taxes collected by the State Board of
Equalization shall be transmitted to the district to be deposited
in the Transit District Public Transportation Improvement
F u n d in the district treasury and used for the purposes pro-
vided in this article within the territory of the transit district
which levied the tax. Any transactions and use taxes ordinance
adopted pursuant to this article shall be operative on the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 180
days after the enactment of the ordinance. The ordinance shall
automatically be repealed after the tax has been in effect for
                        1969
Ch. 1568]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3287

a period of six months, and cannot be levied by a transit dis-
trict a second time.
   Prior to the operative day of the ordinance the transit dis-
trict shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and op-
eration of the ordinance. If the transit district shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date of its ordinance, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of the con-
tract.
   SEC. 6. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of
the act which can be given effect without the invalid provision
or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
severable.

                           CHAPTER 1568
An act to add Chapter 5.10 (commencing with Section 5799.51)
  to Division 6 of the Education Code, relating to outstand-
  ing educators.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Chapter    5.10 (commencing with Section
5799.51) is added to Division 6 of the Education Code, to
read:
             CHAPTER 5.10.       OUTSTANDING EDUCATORS

   5799.51. The State Board of Education shall annually
designate not more than 20 principals of elementary schools
as Outstanding Educators of the Year.
   5799.52. The State Board of Education shall notify all
school districts of the provisions of this chapter.
   5799.53. An individual shall be designated an Outstanding
Educator of the Year on the basis of the following- criteria:
   (a) The individual is a principal of an elementary school in
which a program under the Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act
of 1965 (Chapter 5.8 (commencing with Section 5770) of Divi-
sion 6) is maintained, is a principal of an elementary school
maintaining a compensatory education program in an area
designated under Section 6482, or is a principal of an elemen-
tary school meeting both of the above criteria.
   (b) The State Board of Education shall rank all schools
which maintained the programs specified in subdivision (a)
during the preceding year. The ranking shall be based on a
3188               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Qfo JJJgg

distribution of the number of months of progress achieved
for each year the pupils have been in school, as measured by
uniform statewide achievement tests.
   (c) The principals of schools whose students exhibit the
largest rate of achievement growth in reading as measured by
the test administered pursuant to Section 5779 shall be desig-
nated as Outstanding Educators of the Year.
   5799.54. The State Board of Education shall award the
title of Outstanding Educator of the Year in a regular school
public hearing and shall distribute an analysis of the educa-
tional programs maintained by the principals receiving the
award.
   SEO. 2. The provisions of this act shall remain in effect
until the 91st day after the final adjournment of the 1973
Kegular Session of the Legislature, and shall have no force or
effect after that date.

                        CHAPTER 1569
        An act to amend Section 10293 of the Insurance
                  Code, relating to insurance.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969 Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969 ]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10293 of the Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10293. (a) The commissioner shall, after notice and hear-
ing, withdraw approval of an individual hospital, medical or
surgical policy if after consideration of all relevant factors the
commissioner finds that the benefits provided under such policy
are unreasonable in relation to the premium charged. The
commissioner shall, from time to time as conditions warrant,
after notice and hearing, promulgate such reasonable rules and
regulations, and amendments and additions thereto, as are
necessary to establish the standard or standards by which he
shall withdraw approval of any such policy. Any such rule or
regulation shall be promulgated in accordance with the proce-
dure provided in Chapter 4.5 (commencing with Section
11371) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
Code, and shall be effective 90 days after adoption by the com-
missioner.
   (b) Unless the commissioner specifies otherwise in writing
in the withdrawals, or subsequent thereto, grants an extension,
any such withdrawal shall be effective prospectively and not
retroactively on the 91st day following the mailing or delivery
of the withdrawal.
                        1969
Ch. 1571]                      REGULAR SESSION                        3139

                           C H A P T E E 1570
    An act to amend Section 23754 of the Education            Code,
              relating to state college employees.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 23754 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   23754. Except as otherwise specially provided, an admis-
sion fee and rate of tuition fixed by the trustees shall be re-
quired of each nonresident student. The rate of tuition to be
paid by each nonresident student shall not be less than three
hundred sixty dollars ($360) per year, except that the rate of
tuition to be paid by each nonresident student who is a citizen
and resident of a foreign country shall be two hundred fifty-
five dollars ($255) per year.
   No admission fee or tuition fee shall be required of any stu-
dent who is a citizen and resident of a foreign country and
who attends a state college under an agreement entered into by
a governmental agency formed under the Constitution or laws
of this state or a nonprofit corporation or organization so
formed, with a similar agency, or corporation or association,
domiciled in and organized under the laws of a foreign
country, where a principal purpose of the agreement is to
encourage the exchange of students with the view of enhancing
international good will and understanding. The trustees shall,
in each instance, determine whether the conditions for such
exemption from fees exist and may prescribe appropriate pro-
cedures to be complied with in obtaining the exemption.
   No admission fee or tuition fee shall be required of any
student who is a full-time employee of the California State
Colleges or who is the child or spouse of a full-time employee
of the California State Colleges.


                           CHAPTER 1571
An act to amend Sections 1812.80, 1812.81, 1812.82, 1812.83,
  1812.84, 1812.85, 1812.86, 1812.87, 1812.88, 1812.89, 1812.91,
  and 1812.92 of, to amend the heading of Title 2.5 (com-
  mencing with Section 1812.80) of, and to add Title 2.4
  (commencing with Section 1812.50) to, Part 4 of Division
  3 of, and to repeal Sections 1812.96, 1812.97, 1812.98,
  1812.99, and 1812.995 of, the Civil Code, relating to dance
  studio contracts.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
  3190               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                r Q]^ 1571

  The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Title 2.4 (commencing with Section 1812.50) is
  added to Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code, to read:

      TITLE 2.4. CONTEACTS FOR DANCE STUDIO
           LESSONS AND OTHER SERVICES
      1812.50. (a) The Legislature finds that there exists in con-
   nection with a substantial number of contracts for dance studio
   lessons and other services, sales practices, and business and
   financing methods which have worked a fraud, deceit, imposi-
   tion, and financial hardship upon the people of this state; that
   existing legal remedies are inadequate to correct these abuses;
   that the dance studio industry has a significant impact upon
   the economy and well-being of this state and its local communi-
   ties ; and that the provisions of this title relating to such con-
   tracts are necessary for the public welfare.
       (b) The Legislature declares that the purpose of this title
   is to safeguard the public against fraud, deceit, imposition and
   financial hardship, and to foster and encourage competition,
   fair dealing, and prosperity in the field of dance studio les-
, sons and other services by prohibiting or restricting false
   or misleading advertising, onerous contract terms, harmful
   financial practices, and other unfair, dishonest, deceptive, de-
   structive, unscrupulous, fraudulent and discriminatory prac-
   tices by which the public has been injured in connection with
   contracts for dance studio lessons and other services.
      1812.51. As used in this title, "contract for dance studio
   lessons and other services" means a contract for instruction
   in ballroom or other types of dancing, and includes lessons and
  other services, whether given to students individually or in
  groups. This title does not include contracts for professional
  services rendered or furnished by a person licensed under the
  provisions of Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the
  Business and Professions Code or contracts for instruction at
  schools operating pursuant to the provisions of the Education
  Code.
      1812.52. Every contract for dance studio lessons and other
  services shall be in writing and shall be subject to the provi-
  sions of this title. A copy of the written contract shall be given
  to the customer at the time he signs the contract.
      1812.53. (a) No contract for dance studio lessons and other
  services shall require payment by the person receiving the
  lessons and other services or the use of the facilities of a total
  amount in excess of two thousand five hundred dollars
  ($2,500).
      (b) No contract for dance studio lessons and other services
  shall require payments or financing by the buyer over a period
  in excess of two years from the date the contract is entered
  into, nor shall the term of any such contract be measured by
  the life of the buyer. However, the lessons and other services
                    1969
Ch 15711                   REGULAR SESSION                  3191

to be rendered to the buyer under the contract may extend
over a period not to exceed seven years from the date the con-
tract is entered into.
   (c) All contracts for dance studio lessons and other serv-
ices which may be in effect between the same seller and the
same buyer, the terms of which overlap for any period, shall
be considered as one contract for the purposes of this title.
   1812.54. (a) Every contract for dance studio lessons and
other services shall provide that performance of the agreed-
upon lessons will begin within 12 months from the date the
contract is entered into.
   (b) Every contract for dance studio lessons and other serv-
ices shall further provide:
   (1) That such contract may be canceled within 180 days
after the date of receipt by the customer of a copy of the
contract by written notice to the other party at the address
specified in the contract, and all moneys paid pursuant to
such contract shall be refunded within 10 days of receipt of
the notice of cancellation, except that payment shall be made
for any dance studio lessons and other services received prior
to such cancellation.
   (2) That such contract may be canceled after 180 days
after the date of receipt by the customer of a copy of the
contract by written notice to the other party at the address
specified in the contract, and the student canceling such con-
tract shall be thereafter entitled to a refund, within 10 days
of receipt by the dance studio of notice of cancellation, of all
moneys paid pursuant to the canceled contract with the excep-
tion that the dance studio shall be entitled to 10 percent of the
unpaid balance pursuant to the terms of the canceled contract,
and except further that, in addition to the foregoing, payment
shall be made for any dance studio lessons and other services
received prior to such cancellation.
   (c) Every contract for dance studio lessons and other serv-
ices shall contain a written statement of the hourly rate for
the lessons and other services. Such statement shall be con-
tained in the contract before the contract is signed by the
buyer.
   1812.55. No contract for dance studio lessons and other
services shall require or entail the execution of any note or
series of notes by the buyer which, when separately negotiated,
will cut off as to third parties any right of action or defense
which the buyer may have against the seller.
   1812.56. No right of action or defense arising out of a con-
tract for dance studio lessons and other services which the
buyer has against the seller, and which would be cut off by
assignment, shall be cut off by assignment of the contract to
any third party whether or not he acquires the contract in good
faith and for value unless the assignee gives notice of the
assignment to the buyer as provided in this section and, within
30 days of the mailing of notice, receives no written notice of
3192               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [QJj 1 5 7 1

the facts giving rise to the claim or defense of the buyer. A
notice of assignment shall be in writing addressed to the buyer
at the address shown on the contract and shall identify the
contract and inform the buyer that he shall, within 30 days of
the date of mailing of the notice, notify the assignee in writing
of any facts giving rise to a claim or defense which he may
have. The notice of assignment shall state the name of the seller
and buyer, a description of the lessons and other services, the
contract balance, and the number and amount of the install-
ments.
   1812.57. (a) Every contract for dance studio lessons and
 other services shall contain a clause providing that if, by rea-
son of death or disability, the person agreeing to receive lessons
and other services is unable to receive all lessons and other
services for which he has contracted, he and his estate shall be
relieved from the obligation of making payment for lessons
and other services other than those received prior to death or
 the onset of disability, and that if he has prepaid any sum for
lessons and other services so much of such sum as is allocable
to lessons and other services he has not taken shall be promptly
refunded to him or his representative.
    (b) In every case in which a person has prepaid a sum for
lessons and other services under a contract for dance studio
lessons and other services, and, by reason of death or disabil-
ity, is unable to receive all such lessons and other services, the
party agreeing to furnish such lessons and other services shall,
on request, immediately refund to such person or his personal
representative such amount of the sum prepaid as is propor-
tionate to the amount of lessons and other services not received.
    (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of any contract to the
contrary, whenever the contract price is payable in install-
ments and the buyer is relieved from making further payments
or entitled to a refund under this section, the amount of the
contract price allocable to lessons and other services not re-
ceived shall represent at least as great a proportion of the total
contract price as the sum of the periodic monthly balances not
yet due bears to the sum of all the periodic monthly balances
under the schedule of installments in the contract.
   1812.58. The provisions of this title are not exclusive and
do not relieve the parties or the contracts subject thereto
from compliance with all other applicable provisions of law.
   1812.59. Any contract for dance studio lessons and other
services which does not comply with the applicable provisions
of this title shall be void and unenforceable as contrary to
public policy.
   1812.60. Any contract for dance studio lessons and other
services entered into in reliance upon any willful and false,
fraudulent, or misleading information, representation, notice,
or advertisement of the seller shall be void and unenforceable.
   1812.61. Any waiver of the buyer of the provisions of this
title shall be deemed contrary to public policy and shall be
void and unenforceable.
                     1969
Ch. 1571]                   REGULAR SESSION                   S19B

   1812.62. (a) Any buyer injured by a violation of this title
may bring an action for the recovery of damages. Judgment
may be entered for three times the amount at which the actual
damages are assessed plus reasonable attorney fees.
    (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this title, any fail-
ure to comply with any provision of this title may be cor-
rected within 30 days after the execution of the contract by
the buyer, and, if so corrected, neither the seller nor the
holder shall be subject to any penalty under this title, pro-
vided that any correction which increases any monthly pay-
ment, the number of payments, or the total amount due, must
be concurred in, in writing, by the buyer. " H o l d e r " includes
the seller who acquires the contract, or, if the contract is
purchased by a financing agency or other assignee, the financ-
ing agency or other assignee.
   1812.63. Any person who violates any provision of this
title relating to dance studio contracts shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Any superior court of this state shall have juris-
diction in equity to restrain and enjoin the violation of any
of the provisions of this title relating to dance studio con-
tracts.
   The duty to institute actions for violation of such provisions
of this title, including equity proceedings to restrain and
enjoin such violations, is hereby vested in the Attorney
General, district attorneys, and city attorneys. The Attorney
General, any district attorney, or any city attorney may
prosecute misdemeanor actions or institute equity proceed-
ings or both.
   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the enforcement
by any person of any right provided by this or any other law.
   1812.64. Every dance studio shall maintain a bond issued
by a surety company admitted to do business in this state.
The principal sum of the bond shall be 25 percent of the
dance studio's gross income from the studio business in this
state during the studio's last fiscal year, except that the prin-
cipal sum of the bond shall not be less than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) in the first or any subsequent year of opera-
tions. A copy of such bond shall be filed with the Secretary of
State.
   1812.65. The bond required by Section 1812.64 shall be in
favor of the State of California for the benefit of any person
who, after entering into a contract for dance studio lessons
and other services with the dance studio, is damaged by fraud
or dishonesty or failure to provide the services of the studio
in performance of the contract. Any person claiming against
the bond may maintain an action at law against the dance stu-
dio and the surety.
   The aggregate liability of the surety to all persons for all
breaches of the conditions of the bonds provided herein shall
in no event exceed the amount of the bond.
3194               STATUTES OB' CALIFORNIA             [Qfo 1 5 7 1

   1812.66. In lieu of furnishing the bond required by Sec-
tion 1812.64 the dance studio may deposit with the Attorney
General a cash deposit in a like amount. This cash deposit may
be satisfied by any of the following:
   (1) Certificates of deposit payable to the Attorney General
issued by banks doing business in this state and insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
   (2) Investment certificates or share accounts assigned to
the Attorney General and issued by a savings and loan associ-
ation doing business in this state and insured by the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
   (3) Bearer bonds issued by the United States government
or by this state.
   (4) Cash deposited with the Attorney General.
   1812.67. Sections 1812.64 to 1812.66, inclusive, do not apply
to any dance studio which does not require prepayment for
lessons or other services.
   1812.68. If any provision of this title or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held unconstitu-
tional, the remainder of the title and the application of such
provision to other persons and circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.
   SEC. 2. The heading of Title 2.5 (commencing with Sec-
tion 1812.80) of Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code is
amended to read:

        TITLE 2.5.     CONTEACTS F O E H E A L T H
                     STUDIO SERVICES
   SEC. 3. Section 1812.80 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.80. (a) The Legislature finds that there exists in con-
nection with a substantial number of contracts for health
studio services, sales practices and business and financing
methods which have worked a fraud, deceit, imposition, and
financial hardship upon the people of this state; that existing
legal remedies are inadequate to correct these abuses; that
the health studio industry has a significant impact upon the
economy and well-being of this state and its local commu-
nities; and that the provisions of this title relating to such
contracts are necessary for the public welfare.
   (b) The Legislature declares that the purpose of this title
is to safeguard the public against fraud, deceit, imposition and
financial hardship, and to foster and encourage competition,
fair dealing, and prosperity in the field of health studio
services by prohibiting or restricting false or misleading ad-
vertising, onerous contract terms, harmful financial practices,
and other unfair, dishonest, deceptive, destructive, unscrupu-
lous, fraudulent and discriminatory practices by which the
public has been injured in connection with contracts for health
studio services.
                    1969
Ch 15711                   REGULAR SESSION                 3195

   SEC. 4. Section 1812.81 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.81. As used in this title, "contract for health studio
services" means a contract for instruction, training or as-
sistance in physical culture, bodybuilding, exercising, reduc-
ing, figure development, or any other such physical skill, or
for the use by an individual patron of the facilities of a
health studio, gymnasium or other facility used for any of the
above purposes, or for membership in any group, club, asso-
ciation or organization formed for any of the above purposes;
but does not include contracts for professional services ren-
dered or furnished by a person licensed under the provisions
of Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business
and Professions Code or contracts for instruction at schools
operating pursuant to the provisions of the Education Code.
   SEC. 5. Section 1812.82 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.82. Every contract for health studio services shall
be in writing and shall be subject to the provisions of this
title. A copy of the written contract shall be given to the cus-
tomer at the time he signs the contract.
   SEC. 6. Section 1812.83 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.83. All contracts for health studio services, which
may be in effect between the same seller and the same buyer,
the terms of which overlap for any period, shall be con-
sidered as one contract for the purposes of this title.
   SEC. 7. Section 1812.84 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.84. No contract for health studio services shall re-
quire payments or financing by the buyer over a period
in excess of two years from the date the contract is entered
into, nor shall the term of any such contract be measured by
the life of the buyer; provided, however, that the services to
be rendered to the buyer under the contract may extend over
a period not to exceed seven years from the date the contract
is entered into.
   SEC. 8. Section 1812.85 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
    1812.85. Every contract for health studio services shall
provide that performance of the agreed-upon services will
begin within six months from the date the contract is entered
into.
   SEC. 9. Section 1812.86 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.86. No contract for health studio services shall require
payment by the person receiving the services or the use of
the facilities of a total amount in excess of five hundred dol-
lars ($500).
   SEC. 10. Section 1812.87 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
3196              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r ^ J571

   1812.87. No contract for health studio services shall re-
quire or entail the execution of any note or series of notes
by the buyer which when separately negotiated will cut off
as to third parties any right of action or defense which the
buyer may have against the seller.
   SEC. 11. Section 1812.88 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.88. No right of action or defense arising out of a
contract for health studio services which the buyer has
against the seller, and which would be cut off by assign-
ment, shall be cut off by assignment of the contract to any
third party whether or not he acquires the contract in good
faith and for value unless the assignee gives notice of the
assignment to the buyer as provided in this section and within
30 days of the mailing of notice receives no written notice
of the facts giving rise to the claim or defense of the buyer.
A notice of assignment shall be in writing addressed to the
buyer at the address shown on the contract and shall identify
the contract and inform the buyer that he must, within 30
days of the date of mailing of the notice, notify the assignee
in writing of any facts giving rise to a claim or defense which
he may have. The notice of assignment shall state the name
of the seller and buyer, a description of the services, the con-
tract balance and the number and amount of the installments.
   SEC. 12. Section 1812.89 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.89. (a) Every contract for health studio services
shall contain a clause providing that if, by reason of death
or disability, the person agreeing to receive services is un-
able to receive all services for which he has contracted, he
and his estate shall be relieved from the obligation of making
payment for services other than those received prior to death
or the onset of disability, and that if he has prepaid any sum
for services, so much of such sum as is allocable to services he
has not taken shall be promptly refunded to him or his repre-
sentative.
   (b) In every case in which a person has prepaid a sum for
services under a contract for health studio services, and, by
reason of death or disability, is unable to receive all such
services, the party agreeing to furnish such services shall,
on request, immediately refund to such person or his personal
representative such amount of the sum prepaid as is propor-
tionate to the amount of services not received.
   (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of any contract to the
contrary, whenever the contract price is payable in install-
ments and the buyer is relieved from making further payments
or entitled to a refund under this section, the amount of the
contract price allocable to services not received shall represent
at least as great a proportion of the total contract price as the
sum of the periodic monthly balances not yet due bears to the
sum of all the periodic monthly balances under the schedule of
installments in the contract.
                        1969
Ch. 15721                      REGULAR SESSION                    3197

   SEC. 13. Section 1812.91 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.91. Any contract for health studio services which does
not comply with the applicable provisions of this title shall
be void and unenforceable as contrary to public policy.
   SEC. 14. Section 1812.92 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   1812.92. Any contract for health studio services entered
into in reliance upon any willful and false, fraudulent, or
misleading information, representation, notice or advertise-
ment of the seller shall be void and unenforceable.
   SEC. 15. Section 1812.96 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 1812.97 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 17. Section 1812.98 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 18. Section 1812.99 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 19. Section 1812.995 of the Civil Code is repealed.


                           CHAPTER 1572
An act to add Article 14 (commencing with Section 53940) to
  Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Govern-
  ment Code, relating to a privilege tax on the maintenance
  of livestock animals for pleasure riding and trail use.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 14 (commencing with Section 53940)
is added to Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the
Government Code, to read:

                  Article 14. Pleasure Riding Tax
    53940. This article shall be known and may be cited as the
'' Pleasure Riding Tax Law.''
    53941. The Legislature finds and declares that the owners
of pleasure riding animals receive special benefit from the use
of public areas designated for use by such animals. I t is the
purpose of this article to provide for the acquisition and de-
velopment of further public areas, including public riding and
hiking trails, by a tax on those persons who receive special
benefit from such public areas.
    53942. Pursuant to the provisions of this article, a county
or regional park district may levy a countywide or district-
wide tax, respectively, on horses, mules, or other animals used
substantially for pleasure riding or trail use, not to exceed ten
dollars ($10) per animal per year, for the privilege of access
to and use of public areas designated for use by such animals.
3198               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      rQ}j_ 1 5 7 3

    53944. For the purposes of this article, the following ani-
 mals shall be deemed not to be used substantially for pleasure
riding or trail use and shall be exempt from the pleasure
 riding tax, except that any stock animal so exempted shall be
 subject to the provisions of Section 53946:
    (a) Any head of stock ridden or used by the owner, his
family or his employee primarily in the carrying on of a busi-
 ness or ranch operation;
    (b) Any head of stock used by the owner for rental use en-
 tirely upon private lands under the jurisdiction of the owner;
    (c) Any head of stock used by the owner for rental use pri-
marily upon a parcel of land belonging to the federal govern-
 ment if the taxing agency does not use the proceeds of a tax
 under this article for improvements within that parcel of land;
 and
    (d) Any other class of animal specifically exempted by the
taxing agency.
    53945. , Revenue derived from a tax imposed under this ar-
ticle shall be deposited in a special fund in the county
treasury or district treasury. Such fund may be expended
only for the acquisition and construction of trails for horse-
back riders and hikers, but moneys in the fund may be used
as local matching moneys for any federal or state grant for
such purposes or for matching funds in the acquisition and
development of a federal or state trails project.
    53946. As a method of collecting a tax imposed under this
article, the taxing agency may make payment of the tax a con-
dition precedent to utilization of riders and hikers' trails by
any stock animal except that evidence of payment of such tax
in any other county or district shall fulfill such condition.
   53947. The taxing agency shall provide to the owner of
such animal a record of payment, on durable material, for
each animal for which a tax is paid under this article.


                         CHAPTER 1573
An act to amend Section 18252.3 of, and to repeal Section
  18252.5 of, the Education Code, relating to automooile
  driver training.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 18252.3 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  18252.3. A course of instruction in automobile driver edu-
cation shall:
   (a) Be of at least 2-J semester periods and shall be taught
by a qualified instructor;
                        1969
Ch. 1574]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3199

    (b) Provide the opportunity for students to take driver
education within the regular schoolday, and within the regu-
lar academic year, as defined in Section 5554. Additional
classes may be offered at the discretion of the local school dis-
trict governing board, the county superintendent of schools,
California Youth Authority, and the State Department of Edu-
cation, to accommodate those who have failed or those who
cannot otherwise enroll in the regular schoolday program. For
purposes of this section, the regular schoolday shall be that
time during which classes are maintained in the courses of
instruction provided for in Division 7 (commencing with Sec-
tion 7501) of this code; and
    (c) Be completed by the student within the academic year
or summer session in which it was begun.
   SEC. 2. Section 18252.5 of the Education Code is repealed.


                           CHAPTER 1574
     An act to amend Sections 10163.5 and 10489.2 of the
            Insurance Code, relating to insurance.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 10163.5 of the Insurance Code is
amended to read:
   10163.5. (a) In the case of ordinary policies issued on or
after the operative date of this subdivision as defined herein,
all adjusted premiums and present values referred to in this
article shall be calculated on the basis of the Commissioners
1958 Standard Ordinary Mortality Table and the rate of
interest, not exceeding 3 | percent per annum except that
4 percent may be used for all policies issued from January 1,
1970, through December 31, 1975, specified in the policy for
calculating cash surrender values and paid-up nonforfeiture
benefits ,• provided, that for any category of ordinary insurance
issued on female risks, adjusted premiums and present values
may be calculated according to an age not more than three
years younger than the actual age of the insured; provided,
however, that in calculating the present value of any paid-up
term insurance with accompanying pure endowment, if any,
offered as a nonforfeiture benefit, the rates of mortality as-
sumed may be not more than those shown in the Commissioners
1958 Extended Term Insurance Table; provided further, that
for insurance issued on a substandard basis, the calculation of
any such adjusted premiums and present values may be based
on such other table of mortality as may be specified by the
company and approved by the commissioner.

   101—1954
3200               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [ Q k I574

    On or after January 1, 1961, any company may file with the
 commissioner a written notice of its election to comply with the
 provisions of this subdivision after a specified date before
 January 1, 1966. After the filing of such notice, then upon
 such specified date (which shall be the operative date of this
 subdivision for such company), this subdivision shall become
 operative with respect to the ordinary policies thereafter issued
 by such company. If a company makes no such election, the
 operative date of this subdivision for such company shall be
 January 1,1966.
    (b) In the case of industrial policies issued on or after the
 operative date of this subdivision as defined herein, all ad-
 justed premiums and present values referred to in this article
 shall be calculated on the basis of the Commissioners 1961
 Standard Industrial Mortality Table and the rate of interest,
 not exceeding 3 | percent per annum except that 4 percent
 may be used for all policies issued from January 1, 1970,
 through December 31,1975, specified in the policy for calculat-
 ing cash surrender values and paid-up nonforfeiture benefits.
 Provided, however, that in calculating the present value of any
 paid-up term insurance with accompanying pure endowment, if
 any, offered as a nonforfeiture benefit, the rates of mortality
 assumed may be not more than those shown in the Commis-
 sioners 1961 Industrial Extended Term Insurance Table. Pro-
 vided, further, that for insurance issued on a substandard
 basis, the calculation of any such adjusted premiums and
 present values may be based on such other table of mortality
 as may be specified by the company and approved by the com-
 missioner.
   After the effective date of this amendatory act, any com-
 pany may file with the commissioner a written notice of its
 election to comply with the provisions of this subdivision after
 a specified date before January 1, 1968. After the filing of
such notice, then upon such specified date (which shall be the
 operative date of this subdivision for such company), this sub-
 division shall become operative with respect to the industrial
policies thereafter issued by such company. If a company
makes no such election, the operative date of this subdivision
for such company shall be January 1, 1968.
   SEC. 2. Section 10489.2 of the Insurance Code is amended
to read :
   10489.2. The minimum standard for the valuation of all
such policies and contracts shall be the commissioners reserve
valuation method defined in Section 10489.3, 3-| percent inter-
est except that the interest specified in subdivisions (c) and
(d) of this section may be used for certain annuity and pure
endowment contracts and 4 percent may be used for all policies
issued and contracts entered into from January 1, 1970,
through December 31, 1975, and the following tables:
   (a) For all ordinary policies of life insurance issued on the
standard basis, excluding any disability and accidental death
                    1969   RE
Ch. 1574]                       G U L A R SESSION           3201

benefits in such policies—the Commissioners 1941 Standard
Ordinary Mortality Table for such policies issued prior to the
operative date of subdivision (a) of Section 10163.5, and the
 Commissioners 1958 Standard Ordinary Mortality Table for
such policies issued on or after such operative date; provided,
however, that for any category of such policies issued on
female risks modified net premiums and present values, re-
ferred to in Section 10489.3, may be calculated, at the option
of the insurer, according to an age not more than three years
younger than the actual age of the insured.
    (b) For all industrial life insurance policies issued on the
standard basis, excluding any disability and accidental death
benefits in such policies—the 1941 Standard Industrial Mor-
tality Table for such policies issued prior to the operative date
of subdivision (b) of Section 10163.5, and the Commissioners
1961 Standard Industrial Mortality Table for such policies
issued on or after such operative date.
    (c) For individual annuity and pure endowment contracts,
excluding any disability and accidental death benefits in such
policies—the 1937 Standard Annuity Mortality Table or, at
the option of the company, the Annuity Mortality Table for
1949, Ultimate, or any modification of either of these tables
approved by the commissioner; provided, however, that the
minimum standard for such contracts issued from January 1,
1968, through December 31, 1968, with commencement of bene-
fits deferred not more than one year from date of issue, may
be, at the option of the company, 4 percent interest, and for
contracts issued from January 1, 1969, through December 31,
1975, with commencement of benefits deferred not more than
10 years from date of issue and with premiums payable in one
sum may be, at the option of the company, 5 percent interest.
    (d) For group annuity and pure endowment contracts, ex-
cluding any disability and accidental death benefits in such
policies—the Group Annuity Mortality Table for 1951, any
modification of such table approved by the commissioner, or,
at the option of the company, any of the tables or modifica-
tions of tables specified for individual annuity and pure
endowment contracts; provided, however, that the minimum
standard for group annuities purchased or to be purchased
with considerations received on or after January 1, 1968,
through December 31, 1968, may be, at the option of the com-
pany, 4 percent interest, and for group annuities purchased
or to be purchased with considerations received from January
 1, 1969, through December 31, 1975, may be, at the option of
the company, 5 percent interest.
    (e) For total and permanent disability benefits in or sup-
plementary to ordinary policies or contracts—for policies or
contracts issued on or after January 1, 1966, the tables of
Period 2 disablement rates and the 1930 to 1950 termination
rates of the 1952 Disability Study of the Society of Actuaries,
3202               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qfo ^575

with due regard to the type of benefit; for policies or contracts
issued on or after January 1, 1961, and prior to January 1,
1966, either such tables or, at the option of the company, the
Class (3) Disability Table (1926); and for policies issued
prior to January 1, 1961, the Class (3) Disability Table
 (1926). Any such table shall, for active lives, be combined with
a mortality table permitted for calculating the reserves for
life insurance policies.
   (f) For accidental death benefits in or supplementary to
policies—for policies issued on or after January 1, 19,66, the
1959 Accidental Death Benefits Table; for policies issued on
or after January 1, 1961, and prior to January 1, 1966, either
such table or, at the option of the company, the Inter-Com-
pany Double Indemnity Mortality Table; and for policies is-
sued prior to January 1, 1961, the Inter-Company Double In-
demnity Mortality Table. Either table shall be combined with
a mortality table permitted for calculating the reserves for
life insurance policies.
   (g) For group life insurance, life insurance issued on the
substandard basis and other special benefits—such tables as
may be approved by the commissioner.


                        CHAPTER 1575
        An act to amend Section 7.6 of the Government
            Code, relating to government officers.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 7.6 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   7.6. Whenever, by any law, any officer whose office is
created by the Constitution is made a member of a state board,
commission, or committee, or of the governing body of any
state agency or authority, such officer may designate a deputy
of his office holding a position made exempt from civil service
by operation of the Constitution to act as such member in his
place and stead, to all intents and purposes as though he were
personally present, including the right of the deputy to be
counted in constituting a quorum, to participate in the pro-
ceedings of the board, commission, committee or other govern-
ing body, and to vote upon any and all matters. Not more
than one such officer shall be represented by such a deputy
at any meeting or session of a board, commission, committee
or other governing body. The constitutional officer so designat-
ing a deputy shall be responsible for the acts of the deputy
acting under such designation in the same manner and to
the same extent that the constitutional officer is responsible
                        1969
Ch. 1576]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3203

for the acts of the deputy performing his official duties as a
deputy of the office of the constitutional officer.
   The Lieutenant Governor may designate any person in his
office holding a position made exempt from civil service by
operation of the Constitution to act as a deputy for the pur-
poses of this section only, provided that the Lieutenant Gov-
ernor may not appoint a person to act as a deputy for him
at meetings of the Senate, or the State Lands Commission, or
of the Eegents of the University of California, or of the
Trustees of the California State Colleges.
   The Superintendent of Public Instruction may designate
any person in his office holding a position made exempt from
civil service by operation of the Constitution to act as a deputy
for the purposes of this section, provided that the Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction may not appoint a person to
act as a deputy for him at meetings of the Trustees of the
California State Colleges, the Eegents of the University of
California, or the Reapportionment Commission.


                           CHAPTER 1576
An act to add Sections 6506.5, 7852.5,^ 7890.5, 8042.5, 8044.5,
  8045.5, 8254.5, and 8306.5, to the Fish and Game Code, re-
  lating to fish and game license fees and privilege taxes.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6506.5 is added to the Pish and Game
Code, to read:
   6506.5. In addition to the fees provided for in this article,
every person operating under an allotment shall pay a privi-
lege tax of two cents ($0.02) per packed gallon or fraction
thereof of shucked shellfish harvested by him from his allot-
ment. If the shellfish are marketed in the shell, the tax shall
be based on the equivalent yield of shucked shellfish meat.
   In determining the yield of Pacific oysters it shall be deemed
that one hundred (100) oysters will yield one packed gallon
of shucked oyster meat.
   This section shall be operative July 1, 1970, and shall remain
in effect only until July 1, 1972, and shall have no force or
effect after that date. Section 6506 shall be inoperative until
July 1,1972.
   SEC. 2. Section 7852.5 is added to the Fish and Game Code,
to read:
   7852.5. A commercial fishing license entitles the holder to
take fish from April 1st to March 31st of the year following,
or, if issued after the beginning of such term, for the re-
mainder thereof. The license fee is twenty-five dollars ($26).
3204               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Q^ J57g

    This section shall be operative April 1, 1970, and shall re-
 main in effect only until April 1, 1972, and shall have no force
 or effect after that date. Section 7852 shall be inoperative until
 April 1,1972.
    SEC. 3. Section 7890.5 is added to the Fish and Game Code,
 to read:
   7890.5. Upon payment of a fee of fifty dollars ($50) and
filing of the required statement by the owner or operator
 of the vessel, the department shall issue a certificate of boat
registration which is valid for the period April 1st to March
 31st of the year following, or, if issued after the beginning
of such term, for the remainder thereof. This certificate shall
be carried aboard the vessel at all times posted in a conspicu-
 ous place.
    This section shall be operative April 1, 1970, and shall re-
main in effect only until April 1, 1972, and shall have no force
 or effect after that date. Section 7890 shall be inoperative until
April 1,1972.
    SEC. 4. Section 8042.5 is added to the Fish and Game Code,
 to read:
    8042.5. The annual fees for licenses issued pursuant to this
article are:
    (a) For a fish canners and processors license issued to any
person engaged in canning fish, except frozen or coldpack
crustaceans, or manufacturing fish scraps, fishmeal, fish oil,
chickenfeed, fertilizer, or other products from fish or fish
offal, one hundred fifty dollars ($150).
    (b) For a wholesale fish dealers and preservers license
issued to any person preserving fish by the common methods
of freezing, coldpacking, drying, salting, pickling, or smoking,
or dealing by wholesale in fish taken from the waters of this
state or brought into this state in a fresh condition, fifty dol-
lars ($50).
   Any person engaged in activities covered by both subdivi-
sion (a) and subdivision (b) is required to hold only the
license designated in subdivision (a).
   This section shall be operative July 1, 1970, and shall re-
main in effect only until July 1, 1972, and shall have no force
or effect after that date. Section 8042 shall be inoperative
until July 1, 1972.
   SEC. 5. Section 8044.5 is added to the Fish and Game
Code, to read:
   8044.5. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this arti-
cle, every broker or importer of fish, mollusks or crustaceans
who (a) sells to other brokers, importers or wholesalers only,
(b) who buys from other brokers, importers or wholesalers
only, (c) who does not receive fish from fishermen except fish-
ermen who are also wholesalers, and (d) who is not required
by Section 8045.5 or 8046 to pay a privilege tax, shall procure
a fish broker and importer's license for each place of business.
                     1969
Ch 1576]                    REGULAR SESSION                    3205

   Any person qualifying under the provisions of this section
may procure a fish broker and importer's license in lieu of a
license under Section 8040 and, upon doing so, shall not be
required to comply with the provisions of Section 8045.5 and
8046.
   The annual fee for the license issued pursuant to this sec-
tion is one hundred dollars ($100). The license year shall be
from July 1 to June 30 of the year following, or, if issued
after the beginning of such term, for the remainder thereof.
   This section shall be operative July 1, 1970, and shall re-
main in effect only until July 1, 1972, and shall have no force
or effect after that date. Section 8044 shall be inoperative
until July 1,1972.
   SEC. 6. Section 8045.5 is added to the Fish and Game
Code, to read:
   8045.5. Every person operating under a license issued pur-
suant to this article shall, in addition to the license fee, pay
a privilege tax for each pound, or fraction thereof, of fish
purchased, received, or taken by him in accordance with the
following schedule:
                                                 Rate per pound
 (a) Mollusks and crustaceans irrespective of use,
     excluding squid and crab                          $0.01
 (b) Salmon, based on the weight in the round, ir-
     respective of use                                  0.02
(c) Crab, irrespective of use                           0.0015
(d) Rockfish (family Scorpaenidae) and flatfish
     (order Heterosomata), except for halibut, ir-
     respective of use                                  0.0005
 (e) Other fish, including halibut and squid, for bait
     or for human consumption except for canning 0.005
 (f) All other fish, including squid, which are
     canned, or reduced, or for other than bait or
     human consumption                                  0.0005

    This section shall be operative July 1, 1970, and shall remain
 in effect only until July 1, 1972, and shall have no force or
 effect after that date. Section 8045 shall be inoperative until
 July 1,1972.
    SEC. 7. Section 8254.5 is added to the Fish and Game Code,
to read:
    8254.5. Lobsters may not be taken for commercial purposes
except in Districts 18, 19, 20A and that part of District 20
southerly of Santa Catalina Island between Southeast Rock
and China Point under a revocable, nontransferable permit
subject to such regulations as the commission shall prescribe.
    Every person who takes, assists in taking, possesses or trans-
ports lobsters while on any boat, barge or vessel, or who uses
or operates or assists in using or operating any boat, net, t r a p ,
line or other appliance to take lobsters, must have a valid
lobster permit issued to him and must be in possession of said
permit while engaged in any of such activities.
3206                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Qh   1577

    Such permits may be issued annually by the department and
 shall be for the period of the commercial lobster season. The
 permit fee is one hundred dollars ($100). However, any per-
son who has had such a permit revoked may be required by
the commission to appear before it and no new permit may
be issued to such person unless the commission finds that such
 issuance will be in the best interests of lobster fishing.
    This section shall be operative July 1, 1970, and shall re-
 main in effect only until July 1, 1972, and shall have no force
 or effect after that date. Section 8254 shall be inoperative until
 July 1, 1972.
    SEC. 8. Section 8306.5 is added to the Fish and Game
 Code, to read:
    8306.5. Abalones may not be taken for commercial pur-
poses except under a revocable permit issued by the depart-
ment under such regulations as the commission shall prescribe.
The permit fee is one hundred dollars ($100).
    Diving apparatus may be used to take abalones in water
not less than 20 feet in depth in those portions of District 20
lying on the southerly side of Catalina Island between South-
east Rock and China Point, and in Districts 18, 19, and 20A,
and in District 10 only in the waters lying south of Point
Lobos. It is unlawful to take black abalones for commercial
purposes, along the mainland coast, except as otherwise spe-
cifically authorized by this article.
    This section shall be operative March 1, 1970, and shall
remain in effect only until March 1, 1972, and shall have no
force or effect after that date. Section 8306 shall be inoperative
until March 1, 1972.
    SEC. 9. The department shall report to the Legislature by
January 1, 1971, commercial fishing program income and
expenditures for fiscal year 1969-1970, and the proposed and
actual commercial fishing program income and expenditures
for the fiscal year, 1970-1971, identifying to the extent prac-
ticable those additional expenditures made possible by this
act.

                      CHAPTER 1577
An act to add Article 6 (commencing with Section 18801) to
  Chapter 4 of Division 14 of the Education Code, relating to
  free or reduced-price meals for children, and making an
  appropriation therefor.
           [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
  I object to the $5,000,000 appropriation in Senate Bill No. 1393, and I
hereby reduce said appropriation from $5,000,000 to $500,000.
  With this reduction, I approve the bill.
                                           RONALD REAGAN, Governor
                    1S69
Ch. 1577]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3207

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Article 6 (commencing with Section 18801) is
added to Chapter 4 of Division 14 of the Education Code, to
read:

      Article 6.   School Breakfast and Lunch Programs
   18801. The Legislature finds and declares that hunger
and malnutrition among children from low-income families con-
stitute one of the most critical child health problems in the
state; that federal programs to meet child nutrition needs are
providing nourishing meals to thousands of the state's poverty
area children who previously could not participate in school
lunch programs; that federal funds allocated for child nutri-
tion to California are inadequate to meet critical needs; that
the state and local communities bear a responsibility towards
meeting these needs; and that the physical well-being of all of
the children of the state is a matter of public concern and
expenditures to secure such well-being serves a public purpose.
   18802. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall al-
locate funds to each school district or any other public or
private nonprofit school or agency approved by the Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction which provides free or reduced-
price meals to eligible children. Such allocation shall be at
the rate of one dollar ($1) for each one dollar ($1) expended
by the district or other public or private nonprofit school or
agency during the preceding fiscal year in providing free or
reduced-price meals to eligible children, and the money so
allocated shall be used exclusively for such purpose.
   No amount received by a school district or other public or
private nonprofit school or agency pursuant to this article may
be included in the computation of expenditures of the district,
school, or agency for free or reduced-price meals.
   18803. Each school district or other public or private non-
profit school or agency receiving reimbursement pursuant to
the provisions of this article shall meet standards adopted by
the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the following:
   (a) The definition of a " m e a l " and at what price a given
meal may be considered to be a " reduced-price meal.''
   (b) Standards for the eligibility of children to receive free
or reduced-price meals.
   (c) Standards for the protection of the identity of children
for whom reimbursement is made pursuant to this article.
   18804. No allocation or reimbursement of funds shall be
made pursuant to this article to any public or private nonprofit
school or agency in behalf of any child who resides on the
premises of such school or agency.
   SEO. 2. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund to the Superintendent of Public Instruction the sum of
five million dollars ($5,000,000) to be allocated by him pursu-
ant to Article 6 (commencing with Section 18801) of Chapter
4 of Division 14 of the Education Code.
3208                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  rQ]j_ I 5 7 3

                         CHAPTER 1578
An act to amend Sections 6484, 6490, 6491, 6492, 6495, 6497,
  and 6498 of, and to add Section 6473.5 to, the Education
  Code, and to repeal Section 6 of Chapter 106 of the Statutes
  of 1966, First Extraordinary Session, relating to compen-
  satory education, making an appropriation therefor, and
  declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
  I object to the $9,500,000 appropriation in Senate Bill No. 531 and I
hereby eliminate this appropriation from the bill.
  With this deletion, I approve the bill.
                                          RONALD REAGAN, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 6473.5 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
    6473.5. The Director of Compensatory Education shall not
recommend, and the State Board of Education shall not ap-
prove, a project or program in compensatory education with-
out assurance that the teacher in the class in which the project
 or program is to be conducted and other certificated personnel
required to provide services under the project or program hold
a credential authorizing such service.
    SEC. 1.5. Section 6484 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    6484. Apportionments to a school district shall be in the
form of grants, no part of which shall be required to be
matched by a district as a condition to receiving state aid
under this article.
    In making allocations pursuant to this article the Director
of Compensatory Education shall use an allocation factor
 equivalent to the average statewide teacher salary per full-
time equivalent classroom teacher.
    SEC. 2. Section 6490 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
    6490. I t is the intent and purpose of the Legislature that
exemplary programs be established for intensive instruction
in reading and mathematics to serve as demonstration projects
aimed solely at developing, within pupils, above-average com-
petence in these basic skill subjects. The program shall be
developed to serve pupils in grade 7, 8, or 9 who attend school
in designated areas of disadvantage, and who otherwise would
find difficulty in achieving complete success in high school.
    I t is the further intent of the Legislature that these pro-
grams in intensive instruction in reading and mathematics be
operated by school districts directly, or by school districts
through contract for partial or complete operation with any
competent public or private agency, foundation or corporation.
I t is also the intent of the Legislature that authority be granted
                    1969
Ch. 1578]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3209

to permit the waiver of any provision of the Education Code
by the program approving agency, if such is necessary for
the development of model demonstration programs in the in-
tensive instruction in reading and mathematics.
   SEC. 3. Section 6491 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   6491. From the funds appropriated therefor by the Legis-
lature to the Department of Education for the purposes of
this article, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, upon
recommendation of the Director of Compensatory Education,
with the approval of the State Board of Education, shall ad-
minister this article and make apportionments to school dis-
tricts to meet the total approved expense of the school districts
incurred in establishing demonstration programs in the inten-
sive instruction in reading and mathematics for pupils in
grades 7, 8, or 9.
   SEC. 4. Section 6492 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   6492. The governing board of any district which maintains
grades 7, 8, or 9 on account of any school or schools located in
any area designated by the Director of Compensatory Educa-
tion pursuant to the provisions of Education Code Section
6482, may make application to establish and operate a pro-
gram under this article. The application shall be in the form
and shall contain such data and information as the director
shall specify.
   SEC. 5. Section 6495 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   6495. The State Board of Education shall adopt regula-
tions setting forth the standards and criteria to be used in
the evaluation of applications submitted by school districts.
The standards and criteria adopted by the State Board of
Education, among other items, shall include a statement of
specific goals to be sought in the program both in terms of
pupil achievement and for the purpose of establishing a model
program, and the requirements for evaluation of the program.
   Projects shall be approved only if it can be shown that, if
successful, the cost effectiveness of the project will be such as
to be adaptable within the budgets of other similar school dis-
tricts throughout the state.
   Projects shall be continually reviewed regarding their effec-
tiveness in improving the achievement levels of pupils in read-
ing and mathematics. Projects which are least cost effective
shall be terminated and shall be replaced with ones of proven
 effectiveness or by new projects which hold promise of in-
creased effectiveness.
    SEC. 6. Section 6497 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
    6497. No later than the fifth legislative day of each regular
session of the Legislature, the Superintendent of Public
 Instruction, upon recommendation of the Director of Com-
3210                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     rQJ1_ ^ 5 7 9

 pensatory Education, with approval of the State Board of
 Education, shall submit a report to the Legislature on the
 implementation and evaluation of demonstration programs
 under this article, including the achievement of pupils, an
 analysis of the costs of each project detailed in terms of the
 costs of design, implementation and continuing operational
 expenses, including the degree of cost effectiveness of each
 project. The report shall also include recommendations con-
 cerning improvement, retention, extension or other aspects of
 the program.
    SEC. 7. Section 6498 of the Education Code is amended to
 read:
    6498. This article shall have no force or effect after the 91st
 day following the adjournment of the 1972 Regular Session
 of the Legislature.
    SEC. 8. Section 6 of Chapter 106 of the Statutes of 1966,
 First Extraordinary Session, is repealed.
    SEC. 9. The sum of nine million five hundred thousand
 dollars ($9,500,000) is hereby appropriated from the General
 F u n d in the State Treasury to the Superintendent of Public
 Instruction, to be allocated as follows:
    (a) For the reduction of the teacher-pupil ratio
         in classes conducted pursuant to the McAteer
         Act (Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section
          6450) of Division 6 of the Education Code) $6,500,000
    (b) For the conduct of demonstration programs
         in intensive instruction in reading and math-
         ematics for low-achieving pupils pursuant to
         Article 5 (commencing with Section 6490) of
         Chapter 6.5 of Division 6 of the Education
         Code                                           $3,000,000
    SEC. 10. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   I n order that the urgently needed programs provided by
this act may be fully effectuated and continued through the
1971-1972 school year and that planning and procedural steps
to continue these programs may be commenced as soon as pos-
sible, it is necessary that this act go into immediate effect.


                        CHAPTER 1579
An act to add Article 4 (commencing with Section 25524) to
  Chapter 3 of Division 18.5 of the Education Code, relating
  to community colleges, and declaring the urgency thereof, to
  take effect immediately.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
                         1969
Ch. 1579]                       REGULAR SESSION                   3211

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 4 (commencing with Section 25524)
is added to Chapter 3 of Division 18.5 of the Education Code,
to read:

            Article 4.    Extended Opportunity Programs
                              and Services
    25524. I t is the intent of the Legislature that the Califor-
nia Community Colleges recognize the need and accept the
responsibility for extending the opportunities for community
 college education to all who may profit therefrom regardless
 of economic, social and educational status. I t is the intent and
purpose of the Legislature to encourage local community col-
leges to establish and develop programs directed to identify-
ing those students affected by language, social, and economic
handicaps to establish and develop services, techniques, and
activities directed to the recruitment of such students to and
their retention in community colleges and to the stimulation
of their interest in intellectual, educational and vocational at-
tainment.
   The Legislature finds that the establishment and develop-
ment of extended opportunity programs and services are es-
sential to the conservation and development of the cultural,
social, economic, intellectual and vocational resources of the
state.
   25524.3. An "extended opportunity program or service" is
an undertaking by a community college, to be taught by in-
structors approved by the governing board, in the form and in
accordance with procedures prescribed by this article, which is
over, above, and in addition to, the regular educational pro-
grams of the college, having as its purpose the provision of
positive encouragement directed to the enrollment of students
handicapped by language, social, and economic disadvantages,
and to the facilitation of their successful participation in the
educational pursuits of the college. Participation in an ex-
tended opportunity program or service shall not preclude par-
ticipation in any other program which may be offered in the
college.
   25524.7. Definitions:
   (a) " B o a r d " means the Board of Governors of the Cali-
fornia Community Colleges as created by Chapter 1,5 (com-
mencing with Section 185) of Division 2.
   (b) " D i s t r i c t " means any school district in California that
maintains one or more community colleges.
   (c) "College" means a community college established by
the governing board of a school district authorized to provide
junior college instruction.
    (d) "Extended opportunity p r o g r a m " means a special pro-
gram or method of instruction designed to facilitate the Ian-
3212              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [Q^ 1579

 guage, educational or social development of a student and in-
 crease his potential for success in the college.
    (e) "Extended opportunity services" means a program of
 assistance designed to aid students with socioeconomic handi-
 caps to permit them to enroll in and participate in the educa-
tional activities of the college.
    25525. There is in the state government the Advisory Com-
mittee on Extended Opportunity Programs and Services. It
 shall be comprised of nine members appointed by the board,
 two members appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly and
 two members appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules.
 The nine members appointed by the board shall serve for
 four-year terms, except the first term of each shall be de-
 termined by lot at the first meeting of the board. Three shall
 serve for four years, three shall serve for three years, and
 three shall serve for two years. The two members appointed by
 the Speaker of the Assembly and the two members appointed,
 by the Senate Committee on Eules shall serve at the pleasure
 of the respective appointing powers.
    25525.3. The chairman and vice chairman of the commit-
 tee shall be designated by the board from among the members
 appointed by the board.
    25525.7. The members of the committee shall serve with-
 out compensation, but shall be reimbursed for necessary trav-
 eling and other expenses incurred in performing their duties
 and responsibilities.
    25526. The committee shall serve as an advisory body to
 the board, shall formulate and present such policy recom-
 mendations as it determines will effect statewide establishment
 and conduct of community college programs of extended op-
portunities and services, shall review annually and report to
the board the progress made under this article with the Cali-
fornia Community Colleges toward the extension of educa-
tional opportunities for all students who may profit from in-
struction, and make other recommendations to implement the
provisions of this article. The Chancellor of the Community
Colleges shall be executive secretary of the committee, shall
report to the board on the actions of the committee, and at the
recommendation of the committee and its direction shall make
recommendations to the board pursuant to this article.
   25526.3. All meetings of the committee shall be open and
public, and all persons shall be permitted to attend any meet-
ing of the committee.
   25526.7. The board shall adopt rules and regulations nec-
essary to implement the provisions of this article including
rules and regulations which :
   (a) Prescribe the procedure by which a district shall iden-
tify a student eligible for extended opportunity programs or
services.
   (b) Establish minimum standards for the establishment and
conduct of extended opportunity programs and services.
                    1969
Ch. 15791                  REGULAR SESSION                   3213

    (c) Require the submission of such reports by districts as
will permit the evaluation of the program and services of-
 fered.
    25527. The governing board of any district may, with the
 approval of the board, establish an extended opportunity
program. Such program may include, but need not be limited
 to:
    (a) The provision of tutorial services.
    (b) The establishment of remedial and developmental
courses.
    (c) The establishment of a program of multicultural
 studies.
    (d) The provision of counseling services.
    (e) The provision of recruitment services.
    25527.3. The governing board of any district may, with
 the approval of the board, establish extended opportunity
services. Such services may include, but need not be limited t o :
    (a) Loans or grants to meet living costs or a portion
 thereof.
    (b) Loans or grants to meet the cost of student fees.
    (c) Loans or grants to meet cost of transportation between
home and college.
    (d) The provision of scholarships.
    (e) Work-experience programs.
    (f) Job placement programs.
   25527.7. The governing board of any district may use any
funds under its control not specified to be used for another
particular purpose for the programs and services authorized
by Sections 25527 and 25527.3, the administrative costs of such
programs and services, and may use such funds to meet the
matching requirements to receive federal funds, or funds
granted by nonprofit foundations, designated for the same pur-
poses.
   25528. The governing board of any district may apply to
the board for an allowance to meet all or a portion of the
cost of establishing and operating extended opportunity pro-
grams or services authorized by this article. The application
shall contain a detailed plan or plans for use of the allowance.
The plan or plans shall be submitted in accordance with rules
and regulations adopted by the board. The board may also
adopt rules and regulations relating to the form and content
of applications and procedures for review, evaluation, and
approval thereof.
   25528.3. Applications shall be subject to the approval of
the board. Upon approval by the board, it shall certify an
apportionment or apportionments to the Controller. The Con-
troller shall draw warrants on the State Treasury in the
amounts certified in favor of the county treasurer of the
county which has jurisdiction over the applicant district in
accordance with a schedule of payments established by the
board and approved by the Department of Finance. The
3214               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qfa   l^gQ

 county treasurer shall immediately credit the general fund
of the applicant school district exactly as apportioned by the
 board.
   25528.7. The board shall review the need for state funds to
carry out the purposes of this article and shall include an esti-
mate of such need in its budget for 1970-1971 and for each
subsequent year.
   SEC. 2. From any funds appropriated for the purposes of
this act, not more than the sum of one hundred thirty thousand
dollars ($130,000) may be used by the Board of Governors
of the California Community Colleges for the purpose of ad-
ministering extended opportunity programs and services pur-
suant to Article 4 (commencing with Section 25524) of Chap-
ter 3 of Division 18.5 of the Education Code and for the
purpose of participating in a study identifying the character-
istics of the withdrawal student and the continuing student,
and of developing, testing, and refining methods of predicting
the potential withdrawal student based on those characteristics
identified. All relevant state agencies shall participate in such
study.
   SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   In order that the urgently needed extended opportunity
programs and services in the community colleges may be put
into effect as early as possible in the 1969-1970 school year, it
is necessary that this act take effect immediately.


                        CHAPTEE 1580
    An act to amend Section 8901 of the Government Code,
              relating to the salary of legislators.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8901 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   8901. Commencing at noon on January 2, 1967, each Mem-
ber of the Legislature shall receive as compensation for his
services sixteen thousand dollars ($16,000) per year, during
the term for which he was elected, payable in equal monthly
amounts.
  Commencing at noon on January 4,1971, the annual compen-
sation provided by this section shall be increased to nineteen
thousand two hundred dollars ($19,200).
                        1969
Ch. 1582]                      REGULAR SESSION                       3215

                           CHAPTER 1581
  An act to amend Section 12001 of the Government                 Code,
           relating to salaries of Governor's aides.
            [Approved by Governor September 3, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12001 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   12001. The Governor may appoint and fix the salaries of
such secretaries and other personnel as he deems necessary
for his office. No salary fixed under this section shall exceed
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) annually, except the salary
of the Executive Secretary to the Governor shall not exceed
thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) annually, and the sal-
aries of eight secretaries to the Governor, including not more
than two legislative secretaries, shall not exceed twenty-seven
thousand five hundred dollars ($27,500) annually.


                           C H A P T E R 1582
An act to amend Sections 9359.01 and 9360.7 of the Govern-
  ment Code, relating to the Legislators' Retirement  Sys-
  tem.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 9359.01 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   9359.01. A Member of the Senate or Assembly who is not
returned to office, or who chooses not to run, when the bound-
aries of the Senate or Assembly district, respectively, in
which he was resident, when last elected to the Senate or
Assembly, respectively, are altered pursuant to a reappor-
tionment of legislative districts, or who resigns his office upon
election or appointment to another public office during the
term in which the boundaries of the Senate or Assembly dis-
trict, respectively, in which he was resident, when last elected
to the Senate or Assembly, respectively, are altered pursuant
to a reapportionment of legislative districts, may be retired,
upon his written application to the board, at the conclusion
of his current term provided the member is credited with a
minimum of four years service.
   A written application for retirement may be filed at any
time during the term of office of the member, or within thirty
(30) days after the expiration of his term of office. Any ap-
3216                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Ch. 1583

plication which does not specify a different date as the effec-
tive date of retirement applied for shall be deemed to be an
application for retirement as of the day following the expira-
tion of the term of office of the member.
   This section shall not apply to persons first elected to the
Senate or Assembly after December 31, 1969.
   SEC. 2. Section 9360.7 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   9360.7. Any Member of the Senate or Assembly who after
the effective date of this section retires for service or disability
shall receive the retirement allowance provided by this chapter
unmodified by any optional settlement elected pursuant to
Article 7 (commencing with Section 9361) of this chapter.
   The surviving spouse of such a member who dies after re-
tirement may elect to receive an allowance under this section.
Any surviving spouse making such election shall receive an
allowance equal to one-half of the retirement allowance, un-
modified by any optional settlement which would be payable
to the member were he living and retired under this chapter.
   The surviving spouse of a member who is a Member of the
Senate or Assembly and who dies before retirement but after
becoming eligible for retirement may elect to receive an allow-
ance under this section. Any surviving spouse making such
election shall receive an allowance equal to one-half of the
amount of the retirement allowance, unmodified by any op-
tional settlement, that would be payable to the member were he
living and retired under this chapter. This paragraph shall
also apply to the surviving spouse of any Member of the Sen-
ate or Assembly who dies before becoming eligible to retire and
who would have been eligible to retire under the provisions of
Section 9359.01 of this code had he chosen not to run following
the reapportionment of his district.
   The election provided for in this section shall be made by
a writing filed with the board within 60 days after the death
of the member.
   The allowance to a surviving spouse provided by this section
is payable commencing upon the death of the member and
continuing until the death or remarriage of the surviving
spouse. If pursuant to this section, an allowance is paid to a
surviving spouse, no payment shall be made pursuant to Sec-
tion 9359.8 or pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section
9361) of this chapter.

                         CHAPTBE 1583
An act to amend Sections 7028, 7028.3, 7151, 7156, 7157,
  and 7158 of, and to add Sections 7026,2, 7026.8, 7026.9,
  7028.1, 7028.2, 7028.4, 7116.2, 7151.2, and 7159 to, the Busi-
  ness and Professions Code, relating to contractors.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
                    1969
Ch. 1583]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3217

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 7026.2 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read :
   7026.2. "Contractor" includes any person engaged in the
business of home improvement as defined in Section 7151.
   SEC. 2. Section 7026.8 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7026.8. It shall be a misdemeanor to commit any of the
following acts:
   (a) For any salesman to fail to account for or to remit to
his contractor any payment received in connection with any
home improvement transaction or any other transaction in-
volving a work of improvement.
   (b) For any person to use a contract form in connection
with any home improvement transaction or any other transac-
tion involving a work of improvement if such form fails to
disclose the name of the contractor principal by whom he is
employed.
   SEC. 3. Section 7026.9 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7026.9. (a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision
 (b), as a part of or in connection with the inducement to
enter into any home improvement contract or other contract,
which may be performed by a contractor, no person shall
promise or offer to pay, credit, or allow to any owner, com-
pensation or reward for the procurement or placing of home
improvement business with others.
   (b) A contractor or his agent or salesman may give tangible
items to prospective customers for advertising or sales promo-
tion purposes where the gift is not conditioned upon obtaining
a contract for home improvement work if such gift does not
exceed a value of five dollars ($5) and only one such gift is
given in connection with any one transaction.
   (c) No salesman or contractor's agent shall accept any
compensation of any kind, for or on account of a home im-
provement transaction, or any other transaction involving
a work of improvement, from any person other than the con-
tractor whom he represents with respect to the transaction,
nor shall such salesman or agent make any payment to any
person other than his employer on account of such sales trans-
action.
   (d) No contractor shall pay, credit, or allow any considera-
tion or compensation of any kind to any other contractor or
salesman other than a licensee for or on account of the per-
formance of any work of improvement or services, including,
but not limited to, home improvement work or services, ex-
cept: (1) where the person to or from whom the considera-
tion is to be paid is not subject to or is exempted from the
licensing requirements of this chapter, or (2) where the trans-
action is not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
3218                 STATUTES OF CALIFOENIA                   [Ch. 1583

   As used in this section " o w n e r " shall also mean " t e n a n t . "
   Violation of any act prohibited by this section is a misde-
meanor and constitutes a cause for disciplinary action.
   SEC. 4. Section 7028 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   7028. I t is a misdemeanor for any person to engage in the
business or act in the capacity of a contractor within this state
without having a license therefor, unless such person is par-
ticularly exempted from the provisions of this chapter. If such
a person has been previously convicted of the offense described
in this section, the court shall impose a fine of not more than
two thousand dollars ($2,000), or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than six months, or both.
   SEC. 5. Section 7028.1 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7028.1. Any person who shall accept or receive a comple-
tion certificate or other evidence that performance of a con-
tract for a work of improvement, including but not limited to
a home improvement, is complete or satisfactorily concluded,
with knowledge that such document is false and that the per-
formance is not substantially completed, and who shall utter,
offer, or use such document in connection with the making or
accepting of any assignment or negotiation of the right to re-
ceive any payment from the owner, under or in connection with
such a contract, or for the purpose of obtaining or granting
any credit or loan on the security of the right to receive any
payment shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a
fine not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) or to impris-
onment in the county jail for a term not to exceed one year,
or both.
   SEC. 6. Section 7028.2 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7028.2. Any person who is induced to contract for a work
of improvement, including but not limited to a home improve-
ment, in reliance on false or fraudulent representations or
false statements knowingly made, may sue and recover from
such contractor or solicitor a penalty of five hundred dollars
 ($500), plus reasonable attorney's fees, in addition to any
damages sustained by him by reason of such statements or
representations made by the contractor or solicitor.
   SEC. 7. Section 7028.3 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   7028.3. In addition to all other remedies, when it appears
to the registrar, either upon complaint or otherwise, that a
licensee has engaged in, or is engaging in, any act, practice,
or transaction which constitutes a violation of this chapter
whereby another person may be substantially injured, or that
any person, who does not hold a state contractor's license in
any classification, has engaged in, or is engaging in, any act,
practice, or transaction which constitutes a violation of this
chapter, whether or not there is substantial injury, the regis-
                    1969
Ch. 15831                  REGULAR SESSION                   3219

trar may, either through the Attorney General or through the
district attorney of the county in which the act, practice, or
transaction is alleged to have been committed, apply to the
superior court of that county or any other county in which
such person maintains a place of business or resides, for an
injunction restraining such person from acting in the capacity
of a contractor without a license in violation of this chapter,
or from acting in violation of this chapter when another person
may be substantially injured, and, upon a proper showing, a
temporary restraining order, a preliminary injunction, or a
permanent injunction shall be granted without bond.
   SEC. 8. Section 7028.4 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7028.4. In addition to the remedies set forth in Section
7028.3, on proper showing by (1) a licensed contractor, (2) a
consumer affected by the violation, (3) a district attorney, or
 (4) the Attorney General, of a continuing violation of this
chapter by a person who does not hold a state contractor's
license in any classification, an injunction shall issue by a court
specified in Section 7028.3 at the request of any such party,
prohibiting such violation. The plaintiff in any such action
shall not be required to prove irreparable injury.
   SEC. 9. Section 7116.2 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7116.2. It is a misdemeanor for any person to engage in any
of the following acts, the commission of which shall be cause
for disciplinary action against any licensee or applicant:
   (a) Using false, misleading, or deceptive advertising as an
inducement to enter into any contract for a work of improve-
ment, including, but not limited to, any home improvement
contract, whereby any member of the public may be misled or
injured.
   (b) Making any substantial misrepresentation in the pro-
curement of a contract for a home improvement or other work
of improvement or making any false promise of character
likely to influence, persuade or, induce any person to enter
into such a contract.
    (c) Any fraud in the execution of, or in the material alter-
ation of any contract, trust deed, mortgage, promissory note,
or other document incident to a home improvement transaction
or other transaction involving a work of improvement.
    (d) Preparing or accepting any trust deed, mortgage, prom-
issory note, or other evidence of indebtedness upon the obliga-
tions of a home improvement transaction or other transaction
for a work of improvement with knowledge that it specifies a
greater monetary obligation than the consideration for such
improvement work, which consideration may be a time sale
price.
    (e) Directly or indirectly publishing any advertisement re-
lating to home improvements or other works of improvement
which contains an assertion, representation or statement of fact
3220              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              TQJ1_ J 5 8 3

which is false, deceptive, or misleading, or by any means ad-
vertising or purporting to offer to the general public any
such improvement work with the intent not to accept contracts
for the particular work or at the price which is advertised or
offered to the public, except that any advertisement which is
subject to and complies with the existing rules, regulations or
guides of the Federal Trade Commission shall not be deemed
false, deceptive or misleading.
   SEC. 10. Section 7151 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read •.
   7151. "Home improvement" means the repairing, remodel-
ing, altering, converting, or modernizing of, or adding to,
residential property and shall include, but not be limited to,
the construction, erection, replacement, or improvement of
driveways, swimming pools, terraces, patios, landscaping,
fences, porches, garages, fallout shelters, basements, and other
improvements of the structures or land which is adjacent to
a dwelling house.
   SEC. 11. Section 7151.2 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7151.2. "Home improvement contract" means an agree-
ment, whether oral or written, or contained in one or more
 documents, between a contractor and an owner or contractor
and a tenant, regardless of the number of residence or dwell-
ing units contained in the building in which the tenant re-
sides, if the work is to be performed in, to, or upon the resi-
dence or dwelling unit of such tenant, for the performance of
a home improvement and includes all labor, services, and ma-
terials to be furnished and performed thereunder.
   SEC. 12. Section 7156 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   7156. Any person failing to file any bond or cash deposit
required by this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   SEC. 13. Section 7157 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   7157. The bonding or depositing under this article may be
required notwithstanding the fact that the person may also
be subject to the bonding or depositing requirements of another
law.
   SEC. 14. Section 7158 of the Business and Professions Code
is amended to read:
   7158. The provisions of this article shall not apply to any
work or operation that is exempt from the provisions of this
chapter pursuant to Section 7048.
   SEC. 15. Section 7159 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   7159. This section shall apply only to home improvement
contracts between a prime contractor who is licensed or subject
to be licensed pursuant to this chapter with regard to such
transaction and the owner or tenant for work upon one-, two-,
or three-family dwelling places, where (1) as security for such
                        19d9
Ch. 1584]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3221

contract, the contractor obtains a lien agreement or other
security agreement other than a mechanic's lien or material-
man's lien created by operation of law, or (2) the aggregate
contract price exceeds one hundred dollars ($100) and some
consideration is payable by the owner or tenant prior to com-
pletion of the work, or (3) the aggregate contract price ex-
ceeds six hundred dollars ($600) and no consideration is pay-
able prior to completion. Contracts which fail to comply with
the provisions of this section shall not be deemed to be invalid
solely because of noncompliance.
   Every home improvement contract and any changes in the
contract subject to the provisions of this section shall be evi-
denced by a writing and shall be signed by all the parties to
the contract thereto. The writing shall contain the following:
   (a) The name, address, and license number of the con-
tractor, and the names of the salesmen who solicited or ne-
gotiated the contract.
   (b) The approximate dates when the work will begin and
be substantially completed.
   (c) A description of the work to be done and description of
the materials to be used and the agreed consideration for the
work.
   (d) The number and due date of payments and the amount
of each such payment stated as a sum in dollars which shall
include all finance charges.
   (e) A description of any collateral security taken or to be
taken for the owner's obligation under the contract.
   The writing may also contain other matters agreed to by
the parties to the contract.
   The writing shall be legible and shall be in such form as to
clearly describe any other document which is to be incorpo-
rated into the contract, and before any work is done, the
owner shall be furnished a copy of the written agreement,
signed by the contractor.
   The provisions of this section are not exclusive and do not
relieve the contractor or any contract subject to it from com-
pliance with all other applicable provisions of law.
   Violation of any act prohibited by this section is a mis-
demeanor, and constitutes cause for disciplinary action.


                               CHAPTEE 1584
                An act to add Section 3434 to the Civil
                     Code, relating to creditors.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION      1.   Section 3434 is added to the Civil Code, to
read:
3222               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   rQn_   1^85

   3434. A lender who makes a loan of money, the proceeds of
which are used or may be used by the borrower to finance the
design, manufacture, construction, repair, modification or im-
provement of real or personal property for sale or lease to
others, shall not be held liable to third persons for any loss
or damage occasioned by any defect in the real or personal
property so designed, manufactured, constructed, repaired,
modified or improved or for any loss or damage resulting from
the failure of the borrower to use due care in the design, man-
ufacture, construction, repair, modification or improvement of
such real or personal property, unless such loss or damage is
a result of an act of the lender outside the scope of the activi-
ties of a lender of money or unless the lender has been a party
to misrepresentations with respect to such real or personal
property.

                         CHAPTER 1585
An act to add Sections 21669, 21669.1, 21669.2, 21669.3, and
  21669.4 to the Public Utilities Code, relating to airports and
  making an appropriation therefor, and declaring the urgency
  thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 21669 is added to the Public Utilities
Code, to read:
   21669. The department shall adopt noise standards gov-
erning the operation of aircraft and aircraft engines for
airports operating under a valid permit issued by the depart-
ment to an extent not prohibited by federal law. The standards
shall be based upon the level of noise acceptable to a reasonable
person residing in the vicinity of the airport.
   SEC. 2. Section 21669.1 is added to the Public Utilities
Code, to read:
   21669.1. There is hereby established an advisory committee
to assist the department in the adoption of noise standards.
The committee shall be composed of seven members appointed
by the Governor as follows:
   (a) Two members, one of whom shall be representative of
homeowners concerned with aircraft noise.
   (b) One member each from the Department of Public
Health, the League of California Cities, the County Supervi-
sors Association, the Department of Education, and the Air
Transport Association.
   The existence of the committee shall terminate on January
1, 1971.
   SEC. 3. Section 21669.2 is added to the Public Utilities
Code, to read:
                     1969
Ch. 1585]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3223

   21669.2. In its deliberations the department and the advi-
sory committee shall be governed by the following guidelines:
    (a) Statewide uniformity in standards of acceptable airport
 noise need not be required, and the maximum amount of local
 control and enforcement shall be permitted.
   (b) Due consideration shall be given to the economic and
technological feasibility of complying with the standards
promulgated by the department.
   SEC. 4. Section 21669.3 is added to the Public Utilities
 Code, to read:
   21669.3. The department shall submit a comprehensive
 report of the noise regulations adopted pursuant to Sections
 21669, 21669.1 and 21669.2 to the Legislature on or prior to
April 1, 1970, and the regulations shall go into effect on
January 1, 1971 in the absence of legislative action adopting
different standards.
   SEC. 5. Section 21669.4 is added to the Public Utilities
Code, to read:
   21669.4. (a) The violation of the noise standards by any
aircraft shall be deemed a misdemeanor and the operator
thereof shall be punished by a fine of one thousand dollars
 ($1,000) for each infraction.
   (b) I t shall be the function of the county wherein an air-
port is situated to enforce the noise regulations established by
the department. To this end, the operator of an airport shall
furnish to the enforcement authority designated by the county
the information required by the department's regulations to
permit the efficient enforcement thereof.
   (c) Penalties assessed for the violation of the noise regula-
tions shall be used first to reimburse the General F u n d for the
amount of any money appropriated to carry out the purposes
for which the noise regulations are established, and second be
used in the enforcement of the noise regulations at participat-
ing airports.
   SEC. 6. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund in the State Treasury to the Airport Assistance Revolv-
ing Fund, as a loan, the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,-
000) to be used in carrying out the purposes of Sections 21669,
21669.1 and 21669.2 of the Public Utilities Code as added by
this act, and to be repaid as follows:
   (a) Any penalties assessed for the violation of noise regula-
tions pursuant to this act shall first be used to reimburse the
General F u n d until such loan is repaid; and
   (b) If legislation is enacted to impose a tax on aircraft j e t
fuel, the revenues from which are to be deposited in the Air-
port Assistance Revolving Fund, such revenues shall first be
used to reimburse the General F u n d until such loan is repaid.
   (e) From any federal grants that may be obtained by the
department for the purpose of promulgating the standards
called for by his act.
3224               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   r Q}1_ J 5 g g

   SEC. 7. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   Noise from airport operations is a serious environmental
pollutant and is a burden borne by many throughout Cali-
fornia.
    School districts are finding that aircraft noise increases the
cost of education in the vicinity of airports. In the Los An-
geles area, approximately 40 schools are subjected to aircraft
noise. One elementary school was closed in Los Angeles because
of aircraft noise, and the Los Angeles Board of Education
estimates that it would cost $3.5 million to soundproof seven
of the schools presently subjected to aircraft noise.
    The physical and emotional well-being of residents adjacent
to airports are endangered because of constant exposure to
aircraft noise. Aircraft noise prohibits the full enjoyment of
their homes and at time reduces the value of property to a
homeowner.
    For these reasons, it is necessary that this act take immediate
 effect so that the Department of Aeronautics may establish the
aircraft noise regulations required by this legislation.


                         CHAPTEE 1586
An act to add Article 2.7 (commencing with Section 13250)
  to Chapter 2 of Division 10 of the Education Code, relating
  to teachers.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 2.7 (commencing with Section 13250)
is added to Chapter 2 of Division 10 of the Education Code,
to read:
              Article 2.7. Teacher Preparation
   13250. On and after July 1, 1974, each school with a sub-
stantial population of students of diverse ethnic backgrounds
shall provide an in-service preparation program designed to
prepare teachers and other professional school service person-
nel to understand and effectively relate to the history, culture,
and current problems of these students and their environment.
For purposes of this article a school shall be considered to have
a substantial population of students of diverse ethnic back-
grounds where 25 percent or more of all the students in the
school are of diverse ethnic backgrounds.
                     1969
Ch. 1587]                   EEGDLAB SESSION                    3225

   13250.1. The Department of Education shall develop a list
of approved courses which shall be considered acceptable for
meeting the requirements of this article. The department shall
cause a list of approved courses to be published and distributed
to interested teachers, administrators, and governing boards
of school districts. The department shall be responsible for
coordinating the efforts of school districts and colleges to
develop adequate course offerings to satisfy the requirements
of this article.
   13250.2. In-service programs designed to fulfill the require-
ments of this article may include, but need not be limited to,
courses offered by community colleges and colleges and uni-
versities approved by the State Board of Education. A district
may provide an in-service program consisting in whole or in
part of preparation other than college courses.
   Such a program shall be developed cooperatively with the
Department of Education and shall have prior approval of
the Department of Education. An in-service program which
meets the intent of this article shall encompass the history,
culture, and current problems of the students of diverse ethnic
background.
   All college courses approved by the Department of Educa-
tion for the purposes of this article shall be considered accept-
able for salary credit purposes by any school district. District
in-service programs shall specify an amount of equivalent
credit which shall be acceptable for salary credit purposes
in the school district providing the in-service program.
   13250.3. The Department of Education shall provide in its
budget for the necessary funds to employ appropriate staff
to implement the intent of this article.
   13250.4. The Department of Education shall make a prog-
ress report to the Legislature not later than the fifth legisla-
tive day of the 1972 Eegular Session. The department shall
further report not later than the fifth legislative day of the
1974 Eegular Session the number of districts to which this
article is applicable at that time and the extent to which
implementation has been achieved. The department shall con-
tinually evaluate the results of this article.


                        C H A P T E E 1587
An act to amend Section 6357 of, and to add Chapter 2.5
  (commencing with Section 7370) to Part 2 of Division 2 of,
  the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to taxation.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 6357 of the Eevenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
3226              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                rQn< ^537

  6357. There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this
part the gross receipts from the distributions of and the stor-
age, use, or other consumption in this state of motor vehicle
fuel, except aircraft jet fuel, the distributions of which in this
state are subject to the tax imposed by Part 2 (commencing at
Section 7301) of this division and liquefied petroleum gas the
use of which is subject to the tax imposed by P a r t 3 of this
division, and not subject to refund.
   The Controller shall collect the sales tax upon sales of motor
vehicle fuel which are subject to tax and refund under Part 2
of this division and the use tax when applicable to the storage,
use or other consumption of such fuel by way of deduction
from refunds otherwise allowable under that part. He shall
transfer the amount of the deductions from the Motor Vehicle
Fuel Fund to the Retail Sales Tax Fund.
   SEC. 2. Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 7370) is
added to Part 2 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:

           CHAPTER 2.5.    AIRCRAFT J E T F U E L TAX

                     Article 1.   Definitions
   7370. Except where the context otherwise requires, the
definitions given in this chapter govern the construction of
this chapter.
   7371. " A i r c r a f t " means any powered contrivance designed
for navigation in the air except a rocket or missile.
   7372. "Aircraft jet fuel" means any inflammable liquid
which is used or sold for use in propelling aircraft operated
by the jet or turbine type of engine.
   7373. "Aircraft jet fuel dealer" means any person who
sells to an aircraft jet fuel user, aircraft jet fuel delivered in
this state into the fuel tanks of aircraft or into a storage
facility from which the fuel is withdrawn for use in aircraft.
   7374. "Aircraft jet fuel u s e r " means any person who uses
aircraft jet fuel for the propulsion of an aircraft in this state
except the following:
   (a) A common carrier by air engaged in the business of
transporting persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the authority of the laws of this state, of the
United States or of any foreign government.
   (b) A person engaged in the business of constructing or re-
constructing by manufacture or assembly of completed aircraft
or modifying, overhauling, repairing, maintaining or servicing
of aircraft.
    (e) The armed forces of the United States.
   7375. " F u e l t a n k " means any receptacle on an aircraft
from which fuel is supplied for the propulsion of the aircraft.
   7376. " U s e " means the placing of aircraft jet fuel into the
fuel tank of an aircraft in this state.
                       1969
Ch. 1588]                     REGULAR SESSION                     3227

                   Article 2.    Imposition of Tax
   7380. For the privilege of using or selling aircraft jet fuel
a license tax is imposed upon every aircraft jet fuel dealer at
the rate of two cents ($0.02) for each gallon of such fuel sold
to an aircraft jet fuel user or used by the dealer as an aircraft
jet fuel user.
   7381. The aircraft jet fuel dealer shall make a return of
the tax due under Section 7380 as required of distributors
under Section 7651. All of the provisions of this part relating
to the collection of the tax shall be applicable to the collection
of the tax imposed by Section 7380.

        Article 3. Permit—Aircraft Jet Fuel Dealer
   7390. Every person desiring to become an aircraft jet fuel
dealer shall first secure from the board an aircraft jet fuel
dealer permit. Applications for permits shall be made to the
board on forms prescribed by the board. Before issuing the per-
mit the board may require the applicant to furnish the bond or
security as required under Chapter 4 (commencing with Sec-
tion 7451) of this part.
   7391. Upon receipt of the application and after the deposit
of such security as the board may require, the board shall issue
to the applicant an aircraft jet fuel dealer permit authorizing
him to become a dealer in aircraft jet fuel. The permit is valid
until canceled, suspended or revoked.

               Article 4.     Administrative Provisions
  7395. All of the administrative provisions of this part not
inconsistent with this chapter shall be applicable to the ad-
ministration of the tax imposed by Section 7380.

                Article 5. Disposition of Proceeds
  7396. All money received in payment of the tax imposed by
this chapter shall be deposited in the State Treasury to the
credit of the Motor Vehicle Fuel Fund, and after the payment
of any refunds authorized by this part, the balance remaining
shall be transferred to the Aeronautics F u n d for allocation
pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 8352.
   SEC. 3. The provisions of this act shall become operative
on the first day of the month following the month in which it
becomes effective.

                            CHAPTER 1588
       An act to amend Section 18251.4 of the Education
               Code, relating to driver education.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3228              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA                   [Q n _ 15gg

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 18251.4 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  18251.4. The Superintendent of Public Instruction may
promote and direct the establishment and maintenance of
courses of instruction in automobile driver education and
driver training in the public schools. For this purpose, he may
employ such professional and other personnel as are necessary
to give full effect to this article. All necessary costs and ex-
penses incurred for purposes of this section shall be provided
for from such funds as may be appropriated by the Legisla-
ture from the Driver Training Penalty Assessment Fund.


                        C H A P T E E 1589
An act to amend Sections 12259, 12305, and 12704 of, and
  to repeal Section 12705 of, the Education Code, and to
  amend Sections 1299 and 1304 of the Labor Code, relating
  to the employment of minors.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Seeretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 12259 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   12259. The person authorized to issue permits to work
may also issue to any minor over the age of 14 years a permit
to work outside of school hours for a period of time not to
exceed four hours in any day in which he is required by law
to attend school.
   .The person issuing any permit to work outside of school
hours shall immediately notify, in writing, the principal of
the school which the minor is attending, and if at any time the
teacher of the minor shows to the satisfaction of the person
issuing the permit that the school work or the health of the
minor is being impaired by the employment, the authority is-
suing the permit may revoke it.
   SEC. 2. Section 12305 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   12305. Every person, firm, corporation, or agent or officer
of a firm or corporation, employing minors under the age
of 16 years shall keep on file all permits to employ, or vaca-
tion permits for minors under the age of 16 years. The files
shall be open at all times to the inspection of school attendance
and probation officers and the officers of the Division of Labor
Law Enforcement, of the Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion, and of the State Board of Education.
                     1969
Oh. 1590]                   REGULAR SESSION                    3229

   SEC. 3. Section 12704 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   12704. Except in agricultural and homemaking occupations
and approved work experience education programs, no em-
ployer shall employ a minor under 18 years of age for more
than four hours in any day in which such minor is required
by law to attend school.
   SEC. 4. Section 12705 of the Education Code is repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 1299 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   1299. Every person, or agent or officer thereof, employing
either directly or indirectly through third persons minors
under the age of 18 years, shall keep on file all permits and
certificates, either to work or to employ, issued under the pro-
visions of this article or of Division 9 (commencing with Sec-
tion 10501) of the Education Code. Such files shall be open
at all times to the inspection of the school attendance and
probation officers, the State Board of Education, and the offi-
cers of the Division of Labor Statistics and Law Enforcement.
   SEC. 6. Section 1304 of the Labor Code is amended to read:
   1304. Failure to produce any permit or certificate either
to work or to employ is prima facie evidence of the illegal
employment of any minor whose permit or certificate is not
so produced. Proof that any person was the manager or super-
intendent of any place of employment subject to the provisions
of this article at the time any minor is alleged to have been
employed therein in violation thereof, is prima facie evidence
that the person employed, or permitted the minor so to work.
The sworn statement of the Labor Commissioner or his deputy
or agents as to the age of any child affected by this article is
prima facie evidence of the age of such child.


                            CHAPTER 1590
An act to amend Section 13525 of, and to add Section 18252.6
  to, the Education Code, relating to automobile driver in-
  struction.
                                                                 i
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 13525 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
  13525. The governing board of each school district shall
pay to each person employed in a day school of the district for
full time in a position requiring certification qualifications and
serving under other than an emergency or provisional cre-
dential an annual salary of not less than six thousand dollars
($6,000).
3230               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   [Ch.   1591

   The governing board of each school district shall pay to
each person employed for less than full time in a position re-
quiring certification qualifications and serving under other
than an emergency or provisional credential an annual salary
of not less than an amount which bears the same ratio to
six thousand dollars ($6,000) as the time required of the per-
son bears to the time required of a person employed full time.
   " F u l l t i m e " means not less than the minimum schoolday
for each day the schools of the district are maintained during
the school year.
   The provisions of this section shall not be construed as ap-
plying to substitute employees of a school district or to per-
sons employed exclusively to teach driver training who possess
only a standard designated subjects teaching credential in pub-
lic safety and accident prevention.
   SEC. 2. Section 18252.6 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   18252.6. The governing board of any school district em-
ploying persons exclusively to teach driver training shall adopt
and make public a salary schedule setting the daily or pay
period rate or rates for such persons. Salary amounts and
criteria for advancement contained in any salary schedule
adopted pursuant to this section shall be established at the sole
discretion of the governing board.


                         CHAPTEE 1591
An act to amend Section 987.16 of, and to add Section 987.16a
  to, the Military and Veterans Code, relating to veterans'
  farm and home purchases.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 987.16 of the Military and Veterans
Code is amended to read:
  987.16. Any veteran for whom a home or farm is pur-
chased under this article may be granted a subsequent op-
portunity to purchase another home or farm in any of the
following cases:
   (a) The home or farm has been taken by a public agency in
condemnation proceedings brought by the agency or pur-
chased by such agency in lieu of condemnation.
   (b) The veteran is compelled to change the location of his
employment and residence and sells the home or farm, pays
his purchase contract in full, moves into another home or farm
within six months from the date of change in location, and
pays into the purchase of the new home or farm the net equity
received from the sale of the former home or farm.
                        1969
Ch. 1592]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3231

   (c) A sale of the home or farm is necessitated because of the
health of the veteran or because of the health of a member of
his immediate family and the purchase contract is paid in
full, another home or farm is purchased within six months of
the sale, and the net equity received from the sale of the former
home or farm is applied toward the new purchase.
   (d) The veteran has two or more eligibilities arising from
two or more separate periods of service as described in Section
980 of this code, or the veteran and the veteran's spouse each
qualify as a veteran as described in Section 980.
   Only one home or farm purchased under this article shall be
owned by a veteran or a veteran and the veteran's spouse at
any one time under the provisions of this article.
   SEC. 2. Section 987.16a is added to the Military and Vet-
erans Code, to read:
   987.16a. Any veteran for whom a home or farm was pur-
chased under this article who, after November 12, 1968, and
prior to the effective date of this section, sold such home or
farm because he was compelled to change the location of his
employment and residence or because of the health of the
veteran or the health of a member of his immediate family,
and who would otherwise meet all of the other requirements
of subdivisions (b) and (c) of Section 987.16, shall be exempt
from the six-month time limit in subdivisions (b) and (c) of
Section 987.16 and may be granted a subsequent opportunity
to purchase another home or farm, if his application for the
purchase of another home or farm under this article is filed
within six months of the effective date of this section.


                           CHAPTER 1592
An act to add Article 10 (commencing with Section 710) to
  Chapter 1 of Division 2 of, and Section 2736.5 to the Busi-
  ness and Professions Code, relating to registered nurses.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 10 (commencing with Section 710) is
added to Chapter 1 of Division 2 of the Business and Profes-
sions Code, to read:

                   Article 10. Military Personnel
   710. I t is the policy of the State of California that, con-
sistent with high quality health care services, persons with
skills, knowledge and experience obtained in the armed serv-
ices of the United States should be permitted to apply such
learning and contribute to the health manpower needs of the

   102—1954
3232               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [(JJj. 1593

state at the maximum level of responsibility and skill for which
they are qualified.
   To this end, the rules and regulations of boards under this
division shall provide for methods of evaluating education,
training, and experience obtained in military service if such
training is applicable to the requirements of that profession.
   SEC. 2. Section 2736.5 is added to the Business and Pro-
fessions Code, to read:
   2736.5. (a) Any person who has served on active duty in
the medical corps of any of the armed forces of the United
States and who has successfully completed the course of in-
struction required to qualify him for rating as a medical serv-
ice technician—independent duty, or other equivalent rating in
his particular branch of the armed forces, and whose service
in the armed forces has been under honorable conditions, may
submit the record of such training to the board for evaluation.
   (b) If such person meets the qualifications of paragraphs (1)
and (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 2736, and if the board
determines that his education and experience would give rea-
sonable assurance of competence to practice as a registered
nurse in this state, he shall be granted a license upon passing
the standard examination for such licensure.
    (c) The board shall, by regulation, establish criteria for
 evaluating the education and experience of applicants under
this section.
    (d) The board shall maintain records of the following cate-
 gories of applicants under this section:
    (1) Applicants who are rejected for examination, and the
 areas of such applicants' preparation which are the causes of
rejection.
    (2) Applicants who are qualified by their military education
and experience alone to take the examination, and the results
of their examinations.
    (3) Applicants who are qualified to take the examination
by their military education and experience plus supplementary
education, and the results of their examinations.
    (e) The board shall report to the Legislature its findings
and recommendations relating to applicants under the pro-
visions of this section not later than the fifth legislative day of
the 1971 and 1973 Eegular Sessions of the Legislature.


                         CHAPTEK 1593
An act to add Section 732 to the Fish and Game Code, and to
  add Section 6301.2 to the Public Resources Code, relating
  to government reorganization, and declaring the urgency
  thereof, to take effect immediately.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary o£ State September 6, 1969.]
                     1969
 Ch. 1593]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3233

 The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

     SECTION 1. Section 732 is added to the Fish and Game
  Code, to read:
     732. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Gover-
  nor's Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969 for the Reorganiza-
  tion of the Executive Branch of California State Government,
  if such reorganization plan becomes effective pursuant to Sec-
  tion 12080.5 of the Government Code, it shall have no effect
 whatever upon the Marine Research Committee. The Legisla-
 tive Counsel shall exclude any provisions affecting the Marine
 Research Committee in preparing the bill required pursuant
 to Section 12081 of the Government Code.
     SEC. 2. Section 6301.2 is added to the Public Resources
 Code, to read:
     6301.2. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Gov-
 ernor's Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969 for the Reorganiza-
 tion of the Executive Branch of California State Government,
 if such reorganization plan becomes effective pursuant to Sec-
 tion 12080.5 of the Government Code, it shall have no effect
 whatever upon the nonmineral management functions, au-
 thorities, and responsibilities of state tidelands and submerged
lands lying below such tidelands, and swamp and overflow
 lands affected by tides, including any such lands granted to
 a local agency (including, but not limited to, any of the tide-
lands and submerged lands which have been granted in trust
to the City of Long Beach), currently within the jurisdiction
 of the commission. The Legislative Counsel shall include the
exclusion of such functions, authorities, and responsibilities of
the commission from the transfers of functions provided for
by Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969 in preparing the bill
required pursuant to Section 12081 of the Government Code.
    SEC. 3. Section 1 of this act shall become operative on
the effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969, and
Section 2 of this act shall become operative on the effective
date of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969.
    SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
    The abolition of the Marine Research Committee has been
proposed by Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969. If Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 1 of 1969 should become effective and the Marine
Research Committee is to be continued in existence it is neces-
sary for this act to take effect at the same time Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 1 becomes effective. Furthermore, the transfer
to another state agency of certain administrative functions of
the State Lands Commission with respect to state tidelands
and submerged lands lying below such tidelands, and swamp
and overflow lands affected by tides, including any such lands
3234               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qfo £594

granted to a local agency, has been proposed by Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 2 of 1969. If Keorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969
should become effective and the State Lands Commission is to
continue to exercise such functions, it is necessary for this
act to take effect at the same time Reorganization Plan No. 2
becomes effective.

                         CHAPTER 1594
An act to amend the heading of Article 7.5 (commencing with
  Section 415) of Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1 of, to add
  Division 25 (commencing with Section 38000) to, and to re-
  peal Sections 415, 415.1, 415.2, 415.3, 415.4, 415.5, 415.6,
  416.2, 416.3, 416.4 and 416.24 of, and Division 25 (commenc-
  ing with Section 38000) of, the Health and Safety Code, and
  to amend Sections 6500 and 7511 of the Welfare and Insti-
  tutions Code, relating to mental retardation.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1909. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. The heading of Article 7.5 (commencing with
Section 415) of Chapter 2 of P a r t 1 of Division 1 of the
Health and Safety Code is amended to read:

Article 7.5.   Conservatorship and Guardianship for Mentally
                       Retarded Persons
   SEC. 2. Section 415 of the Health and Safety Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 415.1 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 415.2 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
   SEC. 5. Section 415.3 of the Health and Safety Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 6. Section 415.4 of the Health and Safety Code is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 415.5 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 8. Section 415.6 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 9. Section 416.2 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 10. Section 416.3 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 11. Section 416.4 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
  SEC. 12. Section 416.24 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
                      1969
Ch. 1594]                    REGULAR SESSION                    3235

  SEC. 13. Division 25 (commencing with Section 38000) of
the Health and Safety Code is repealed.
  SEC. 14. Division 25 (commencing with Section 38000) is
added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:

            DIVISION 25. SEEVICBS FOR T H E
                 MENTALLY RETARDED
                CHAPTER 1.      GENERAL PROVISIONS

    38000. This division shall be known and may be cited as
 the Lanterman Mental Retardation Services Act of 1969.
    38001. The State of California accepts a responsibility for
its mentally retarded citizens and an obligation to them which
 it must discharge. Affecting hundreds of thousands of children
and adults directly, and having an important impact on the
lives of their families, neighbors, and whole communities, men-
tal retardation presents social, medical, economic, and legal
problems of extreme importance.
    The complexities of mental retardation require the services
of many state departments as well as the community. Fre-
quently there are gaps beyond the present duties and powers
of departments in the development of state and community
services.
    Services should be planned and provided as a part of a con-
tinuum. A pattern of facilities and eligibility should be estab-
lished which is so complete as to meet the needs of each re-
tarded person, regardless of age or degree of handicap, and at
each stage of his life's development.
    38002. After July 1, 1971, mental retardation alone shall
no longer constitute sufficient justification for judicial com-
mitment. Instead mentally retarded persons shall receive serv-
ices pursuant to this division. Mentally retarded persons who
constitute a danger to themselves or others may be judicially
committed if evidence of such danger is proven in court.
    Unless otherwise indicated, the provisions of this division
shall not be construed to apply retroactively to terminate court
commitments of mentally retarded persons.
    38003. As used in this division:
    (a) "Regional center" means a regional diagnostic, coun-
seling and service center for mentally retarded persons and
their families.
    (b) " D i r e c t o r " means the Director of Public Health.
    (c) " D e p a r t m e n t " means the Department of Public Health.
    (d) " S e c r e t a r y " means the Secretary of the Human Rela-
tions Agency.
    (e) "State b o a r d " means the State Mental Retardation
Program Advisory Board.
    (f) " A r e a board" means an areawide mental retardation
program board.
    (g) " A r e a p l a n " means an areawide mental retardation
plan.
3236              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Q^ 1594

   38004. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, men-
tally retarded persons shall not be released from state hospi-
tals on leaves of absence after July 1, 1971, except for short
home visits, but shall be referred to a regional center for serv-
ices pursuant to this division.

                  CHAPTER 2.    AREA BOARDS

   38050. By January 1, 1970, the secretary shall divide the
state into areas for the purpose of planning and coordinating
services for the mentally retarded. To the extent feasible, the
areas shall correspond to comprehensive health planning
regions.
   38051. By July 1, 1970, an areawide mental retardation
program board shall be appointed in each area to act as a
planning and coordinating body for mental retardation serv-
ices.
   38052. Area boards shall be comprised, as follows:
   (a) For areas consisting of one to four counties, the area
board shall consist of a total of 12 members appointed by the
governing bodies of the counties, each county appointing an
equal number of members, and five members appointed by the
 Governor.
   (b) For areas consisting of five to seven counties, the area
board shall consist of two members appointed by the govern-
ing body of each county, and five members appointed by the
 Governor.
   (c) For areas consisting of eight or more counties, the area
board shall consist of one member appointed by the governing
body of each county, and five members appointed by the Gov-
ernor.
   38053. Of the members first appointed, five shall serve for
one year, five shall serve for two years, and the remaining
members shall serve for three years. Subsequent members shall
serve for three years.
   38054. The governing bodies of the counties in each area
and the Governor shall select their appointees from among
the following groups, and, to the extent feasible, in the follow-
ing proportions:
   (a) Parents of the mentally retarded—25 percent.
   (b) Professional disciplines serving the mentally retarded—
50 percent.
   (c) The general public and county supervisors—25 percent.
   38054.1. The Governor shall give consideration to the rela-
tive populations of the counties within the area in selecting
his appointees to the area boards.
   38054.2. The governing bodies of the counties in each area
and the Governor shall request recommendations for persons
to be appointed to the area boards from:
   (a) Organizations representing parents of the retarded;
   (b) Professional organizations representing the various pro-
fessional disciplines to be included on the board; and
                    1969
Ch. 1594]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3237

   (c) Such mental retardation coordinating councils as may
exist.
   38055. All members of the area board shall be residents of
the area.
   38056. No member of an area board may be an employee of
a regional center, the State Department of Public Health, the
State Department of Mental Hygiene, or the State Depart-
ment of Social Welfare.
  38057. An area board shall have the following duties:
   (a) I t shall be the mental retardation planning body for the
area, and shall develop and submit the area plan.
   (b) It shall have the responsibility for coordinating and en-
couraging the development of services.
   38058. Each area board shall adopt an areawide mental
retardation plan.
   The purpose of an area plan shall be to ensure the provi-
sion of services as specified in this division in such a manner
as to avoid duplication, fragmentation of services, and un-
necessary expenditures. To achieve this purpose, an area plan
shall provide for the most appropriate and economical use
of all existing public and private mental retardation agen-
cies and professional personnel. An area plan must include
the fullest possible participation by Short-Doyle agencies, state
hospitals and clinics, public and private hospitals, county and
state health and welfare agencies, and all such other public
and private agencies and professional personnel as are re-
quired to, or may agree to, participate in the area plan.
   38059. An area plan shall provide for the orderly and
economic development of mental retardation services in the
area.
   Each area board shall submit its area plan at such time and
in such form as required by the secretary. The area plan shall
designate the region or regions within the area for the pur-
pose of the regional center or centers, and the agency or agen-
cies which will provide regional center services. The area plan
shall also indicate the services required by the mentally re-
tarded in the area, the number of persons needing such services,
the available service resources, and the anticipated costs and
revenues. The area plan may include individual county plans
which have been submitted to the area board.
   38060. Area plans shall be submitted to the Areawide Com-
prehensive Health Planning Agency for review, and to the
secretary for approval and transmission to the Health Plan-
ning Council.
   38061. The members of an area board shall serve without
compensation, but shall be reimbursed for any actual and nec-
essary expenses incurred in connection with the performance
of their duties under this division.
   Each area board shall meet at least quarterly, and on call of
the board chairman, as often as necessary to fulfill its duties.
All meetings and records of the area board shall be open to
the public.
3238              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1594

   38062. Each area board shall, by majority vote of the vot-
ing members, elect its own chairman from among the appointed
members, and shall establish such committees as it deems nec-
essary or desirable. The board chairman shall appoint all mem-
bers of committees of the area board.
   An area board may appoint such advisory committees com-
posed of professional persons serving the mentally retarded as
necessary for technical assistance.
   38063. Each area board may appoint an executive secre-
tary who may appoint persons to such staff positions as the
area board may authorize within available funds. The affirma-
tive votes of a majority of the members of the area board
shall be necessary for the appointment or removal of an execu-
tive secretary.

           CHAPTER 3. EEGIONAL CENTERS FOR THE
                    MENTALLY KETARDED

   38100. In order to provide fixed points of referral in the
community for the mentally retarded and their families; es-
tablish ongoing points of contact with the mentally retarded
and their families so that they may have a place of entry for
services and return as the need may appear; provide a link
between the mentally retarded and services in the community,
including state-operated services, to the end that the mentally
retarded and their families may have access to the facilities
best suited to them throughout the life of the retarded person;
offer alternatives to state hospital placement; and encourage
the placement of persons from the state hospital, it is the
intent of this division that a network of regional diagnostic,
counseling, and service centers for mentally retarded persons
and their families, easily accessible to every family, be estab-
lished throughout the state.
   The Legislature finds that the services required of a regional
center are of such a special and unique nature that they can-
not be satisfactorily provided by state agencies. Therefore,
private nonprofit community and local public agencies shall
be utilized for the purpose of operating regional centers to the
end that the unique relationship which these agencies enjoy
with both the mentally retarded and their families and the
providers of services in the community may enable the men-
tally retarded to receive service in the most direct, efficient
and effective manner possible.
   38101. The State Department of Public Health, within the
limitations of funds appropriated, shall contract with appro-
priate agencies, either public or private nonprofit corporations,
for the establishment of regional centers.
   38102. Eegional centers shall be near centers of population
where most needed and wherever possible connected to or in
close proximity to institutions of higher learning and research.
   38103. A regional center shall investigate every appropri-
ate and economically feasible alternative for care of a mentally
                    1969
Ch. 1594]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3239

retarded person available within the region. If suitable care
cannot be found within the region, care may be obtained in
facilities outside of the region.
    After July 1, 1971, except for those mentally retarded per-
sons placed in state hospitals pursuant to the Lanterman-
Petris-Short Act, no mentally retarded person shall be ad-
mitted to a state hospital except upon the referral of a regional
center. Upon discharge from a state hospital, a mentally re-
tarded person shall be referred to an appropriate regional
center. The department may contract with appropriate agencies
for regional center services in those regions where a regional
center is not yet fully operative.
    38104. Any person suspected of mental retardation shall
be eligible for initial intake and for diagnostic and counseling
services in the regional centers.
    38105. A regional center may purchase required out-of-
home prehospital and posthospital care for mentally retarded
persons. In locating appropriate placement alternatives for
mentally retarded children, regional centers shall encourage
maximum participation by parents in the decisionmaking
process.
    Regional centers may contract or enter into agreements with
appropriate agencies for the provision of out-of-home place-
ment services and case management.
    38106. The regional centers shall provide and perform or
cause to be performed services including, but not limited to,
 the following:
    (a) Diagnosis.
    (b) Counseling on a continuing basis. Counseling shall in-
 clude advice and guidance to any mentally retarded person
 and his family, to assist them in locating and using suitable
facilities, including, but not limited to: special medical serv-
 ices ; nursery and preschool training; public education; recrea-
tion; vocational rehabilitation; suitable residential facilities;
 and state hospital facilities.
     (c) Provide state funds to vendors of service to the re-
 tarded.
     (d) Maintain a registry and individual case records.
     (e) Systematic followup of the mentally retarded and re-
 activation of cases as indicated.
     (f) Call public attention to unmet needs in community
 care and services, defining and interpreting standards of com-
 munity care and services as used by the regional center, and
 stimulating the community to develop such services as needed.
     (g) Maintain a staff according to standards set by the sec-
  retary.
     (h) Report as required to the area board and the secretary
  on services provided and unmet needs in the region.
     (i) Develop a plan for mental retardation services in the
  region to be submitted to the area board at such time and in
  such form as required by the area board or the secretary.
3240                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ch. 1594

  38107. A regional center may make use of the services of
volunteers.
       CHAPTER 4.    GUARDIANSHIP AND CONSERVATORSHIP

   38150. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
Department of Mental Hygiene shall not be appointed as
guardian of any mentally retarded person after July 1, 1971.
This chapter shall not be construed to terminate any appoint-
ment of the Department of Mental Hygiene as guardian of a
mentally retarded person prior to July 1, 1971.
   It is the intent of this section that the Director of Public
Health be appointed as guardian or conservator of a mentally
retarded person as provided, pursuant to the provisions of
Article 7.5 (commencing with Section 416) of Chapter 2 of
Part 1 of Division 1 of this code, in any case in which the
Director of Mental Hygiene would otherwise have been so
appointed.
   Notwithstanding Section 6000 of the Welfare and Institu-
tions Code, the admission of an adult mentally retarded per-
son to a state hospital or private institution shall be upon the
application of the person's parent or guardian.

       CHAPTER 5.    STATE MENTAL EETARDATION PROGRAM
                        ADVISORY BOARD

   38200. There is in the Human Relations Agency the State
Mental Retardation Program Advisory Board.
   The state board shall consist of 11 appointed voting mem-
bers. Two members shall represent the general public; one
member shall be the parent of a mentally retarded child who
is not a patient in a state hospital; one member shall be the
parent of a mentally retarded child who is a patient in a state
hospital; one member shall be a county supervisor and the
remaining six members shall each represent one of the fol-
lowing professions: medicine, psychology, social work, nursing,
education, and law.
   The Governor shall appoint the following seven members
of the board: a county supervisor, and the six members repre-
senting the professions of medicine, psychology, social work,
nursing, education, and law. The Chairman of the Senate
Rules Committee shall appoint the following two members of
the board: a representative of the general public, and the
parent of a mentally retarded child who is a patient in a state
hospital. The Speaker of the Assembly shall appoint the fol-
lowing two members of the board: a representative of the
general public, and the parent of a mentally retarded child
who is not a patient in a state hospital.
   Of the members first appointed by the Governor, one shall
hold office for three years, three shall hold office for two years,
and three shall hold office for one year. The members ap-
pointed by the Chairman of the Senate Rules Committee and
                     1969
 Ch. 1594]                  REGULAR SESSION                  324I

  by the Speaker of the Assembly each shall hold office for three
  years. Thereafter, each member shall hold office for three
  years.
     38201. The members of the state board shall serve without
  compensation but shall be reimbursed for any actual and
  necessary expenses incurred in connection with the perform-
  ance of their duties under this division.
     The state board shall meet at least quarterly, and on call
 of the board chairman as often as necessary to fulfill its
  duties. All meetings and records of the board shall be open
  to the public.
     The state board shall, by majority vote of the voting mem-
 bers, elect its own chairman from among the 11 appointed
 members, and shall establish such committees as it deems neces-
 sary or desirable. The board chairman shall appoint all mem-
 bers of committees of the state board. The chairman may
 appoint such advisory committees composed of professional
 persons serving the mentally retarded as necessary for techni-
 cal assistance.
     38202. The state board shall advise the Health Planning
 Council, the secretary, the Governor and the Legislature on
 the initiation, coordination, and implementation of programs
 and projects for the mentally retarded, including, but not
 limited to, the following:
     (a) Present and proposed programs of service for the men-
tally retarded of state, local governmental, and voluntary
 agencies.
     (b) The development by the secretary of a state plan for
 mental retardation services and the system of priorities con-
 tained in a program budget to be developed by the secretary.
     (c) The development by the Health Planning Council of the
mental retardation portion of the state plan for all health
 services.
     (d) Standards for services in various facilities that are now
 being operated or which will hereafter be created.
     (e) Standards and rates of state payment for any services
 purchased for mentally retarded persons through the regional
centers.
     (f) The development of uniform recordkeeping in all serv-
ices for the mentally retarded.
     (g) The coordination of services and research activities in
the field of mental retardation, including the evaluation of
services and programs, studies of the prevalence of mental
retardation, and the development of experimental programs.
    (h) The stimulation of planning for professional training
in the state universities and colleges.
    38203. The state board shall prepare and render annually
a written report of its activities and its recommendations to
the Health Planning Council, the Secretary of the Human
Relations Agency, the Governor and the Legislature.
3242               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ}j_ 1 5 9 4

   38204. To the extent feasible, the departments of state gov-
ernment shall cooperate with and furnish such information,
records, and documents, as the state board may request, except
for confidential patient records.
   38205. The state board may appoint an executive secretary
who may appoint persons to svich staff positions as the board
may authorize within available funds. The affirmative votes of
a majority of the members of the board shall be necessary for
the appointment or removal of the executive secretary.

              CHAPTER 6.    FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

   38250. I t is the intent of this division that by July 1, 1971,
state funds previously allocated to other agencies for the pro-
vision of out-of-home prehospital, hospital and posthospital
care be allocated, to the fullest extent feasible, to regional cen-
ters to contract with appropriate agencies for the provision of
out-of-home placements.
   I n the event either the Governor or the Legislature should
obtain federal approval to transfer programs for the mentally
retarded from other state departments to the Department of
Public Health under the provisions of Public Law 90-577 (In-
tergovernmental Cooperation Act of 3968), the State Control-
ler shall, upon approval of the Director of Finance, transfer
to the Department of Public Health such parts of the appro-
priation of the other departments that are related to mental
retardation programs; provided further, that such transfer
shall enable the state to make maximum utilization of available
state and federal funds.
   It is the intent of this division that the regional center pro-
gram be funded by the state on a regional basis using the maxi-
mum of federal funds available, and that all funds be trans-
mitted through the department to each regional center.
   38251. When appropriated by the Legislature, the secre-
tary may receive and expend all funds made available by the
federal government, the state, its political subdivisions, and
other sources, and, within the limitation of the funds made
available, shall act as an agent for the transmittal of such
funds for services through the regional centers. The secretary
may use any funds received under Article 2 (commencing with
Section 249) of Chapter 2 of Part 1 of Division 1 of the
Health and Safety Code for the purposes of this division.
   38252. The secretary may accept and expend grants, gifts,
and legacies of money and, with the consent of the Depart-
ment of Finance, may accept, manage and expend grants, gifts
and legacies of other property, in furtherance of the purposes
of this division.
   The secretary may enter into agreements with any person,
agency, corporation, foundation, or other legal entity to carry
out the purposes of this division.
   38253. The secretary, in the same manner and subject to
the same conditions as other state agencies, shall submit a
                    1960
Ch. 1594]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3243

program budget annually to the Department of Finance, in-
cluding not only expenditures proposed to be made under
this division, but also expenditures proposed to be made under
any related program or by any other state agency, designed to
provide services incidental to the functions to which this divi-
sion relates. The secretary may require state departments to
contract with it for services to carry out the provisions of
this division.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, authorized
services to eligible persons, as defined in this division, pro-
vided by all state agencies, including, but not limited to, the
Departments of Education, Mental Hygiene, Public Health,
Rehabilitation and Social Welfare shall, to the fullest extent
permitted by federal law, by contract or otherwise, be made
available upon request of the director, and the approval of
the secretary, to the department for services to eligible persons.
   The secretary shall consult with the departments involved
in developing the statewide plan and program budget, and
shall seek the advice of the state board.
   38254. The secretary shall adopt rules and regulations
to carry out the provisions of this division and to prescribe
standards of service which shall be satisfied and maintained
as a condition to the payment of state funds by a regional
center.
   The secretary shall provide regional centers with current
lists of approved facilities and services. Regional centers may
not expend state funds for services which are not approved by
the secretary, notwithstanding any other certification, li-
censing, or approval of the facility or service.
   The secretary shall not adopt standards which are in conflict
with those governing services under the jurisdiction of the
State Superintendent of Public Instruction.
   38255. The secretary shall establish rates of state payment
for services purchased by regional centers for mentally re-
tarded persons. An equitable system of rates shall be developed
prior to July 1,1971.
   38256. The secretary shall coordinate all mental retarda-
tion services and related programs, conducted by state agen-
cies, with the federal government and ensure that there is no
duplication of such programs among state agencies and that
all agreements, contracts, plans or programs conform to the
provisions of this division. Any plan proposed to be sub-
mitted by any such agency to the federal government in rela-
tion to a mental retardation or related program shall first be
submitted to the secretary for his review. The secretary may
require state departments to contract with it for services to
carry out the provisions of this division.
   38257. After July 1, 1971, parents of children under the
age of 18 who are receiving services purchased by the regional
center may be required to contribute to the cost of services
depending upon their ability to pay, but not to exceed the
3244               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              tQ^   15^4

cost of caring for a normal child at home, as determined
by the secretary. Parental contributions shall be made only to
the regional center and the method of determination of the
amount of the contribution shall be the same, whether the child
is placed in the state hospital or in a public or private commu-
nity facility. In no event, however, shall parents be charged
for diagnosis or counseling services received through the
regional centers. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent parental contributions to regional centers prior to
July 1,1971.
   38258. The secretary shall propose a schedule for parental
fees for services received through the regional centers to be
submitted to the Legislature no later than the fifth legislative
day of the 1970 Eegular Session of the Legislature.
   I n establishing the amount parents will contribute, the sec-
retary shall take into account such factors as:
    (a) Medical expenses incurred prior to regional center care;
    (b) "Whether the child is living at home;
    (c) Parental contributions for medical expenses, clothing,
incidentals, and other items considered necessary to the normal
rearing of a child; and
    (d) Transportation expenses incurred in visiting a child
placed in a facility outside the region.
   All parental contributions shall be utilized for the provision
of additional direct services to the retarded.
   38259. Counties shall pay to the regional centers, for each
person receiving purchased out-of-home care through a regional
center in a state hospital, such amount as established by the
director, but not to exceed twenty dollars ($20) per month.
Such amount shall be reduced by the amount paid to the
regional center by the parent.
   38260. State funds appropriated for the purposes of this
division shall not be used to supplant city or county matching
funds required under the Budget Act of 1969.
   For purposes of this section, city or county matching funds
required under the Budget Act of 1969 for services specified
in Section 38106 which are provided under the Short-Doyle
Act shall be deemed to be the amount of matching funds
specified for such services in the city or county Short-Doyle
plan as approved by the Director of Mental Hygiene for the
1969-70 fiscal year.
   For the purposes of this section, the Secretary, with the
approval of the Department of Finance, shall determine the
amount of city or county matching funds with respect to each
city or county.
   38261. Any services specified in Section 38106 which are
provided by cities or counties in accordance with the area plan
approved by the secretary and not, as determined by the sec-
retary with the approval of the Department of Finance, pro-
vided for in the Budget Act of 1969, including, but not limited
                     1969
Ch. 1595]                   REGULAR SESSION                    3245

to, services under the Short-Doyle Act, shall be eligible for
funding on the same basis as services provided for in this
division.
                   CHAPTER 7.      EVALUATION

   38300. The secretary shall by January 1, 1973, make provi-
sion for an evaluation of all aspects of the program provided
for by this division, including, but not limited t o : the number,
age and type of clients served; the kind of services provided;
the effectiveness of the service; the equity of the fees charged
to parents; the effectiveness and quality of state and area
planning; and the range and availability of services.
   SEC. 15. Section 6500 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   6500. As used in this code, "mentally retarded persons"
means those persons who are so mentally retarded from in-
fancy or before reaching maturity that they are incapable of
managing themselves and their affairs independently, with
ordinary prudence, or of being taught to do so, and who re-
quire supervision, control, and care, because they are a danger
to themselves or others.
   Wherever in this code or in any provision of statute here-
tofore or hereafter enacted the terms "feebleminded" and
"feeblemindedness" are used, they shall be construed to refer
to and mean "mentally retarded" and "mental retardation,"
respectively, as defined in this section. All persons heretofore
committed or admitted as feebleminded to any state hospital
for the mentally retarded, or committed to the Department of
Mental Hygiene for placement therein, shall be deemed to
have been committed or admitted thereto as mentally retarded
persons.
   SEC. 16. Section 7511 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code is amended to read:
   7511. The portion of the cost of such care payable by the
county for mentally retarded persons placed in state hospitals
prior to July 1, 1971, shall be determined by the Department
of Mental Hygiene from time to time, subject to the approval
of the Department of Finance, but in no case shall it exceed
the rate of twenty dollars ($20) per month.
   SEC. 17. Section 15 of this act shall become operative on
July 1,1971.

                        C H A P T E E 1595
An act to amend Section 9942 of the Business and Professions
           Code, relating to employment agencies.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3246               STATUTES OF CALtFOKNIA                [Ch. 1595

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 9942 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   9942. A written application for an employment agency li-
cense shall be made to the bureau in the form prescribed by the
bureau and shall include:
       (a) The name and address of the applicant. The names
   and addresses of each partner, from applicant partnerships,
   and each officer, from applicant corporations, shall be stated.
       (b) The full address of the place where the business of
   the employment agency is to be conducted.
       (c) The business or occupation engaged in by the appli-
   cant for at least two years immediately preceding the date
   of application.
       (d) The proposed name of the agency. The bureau shall
   reject any proposed name which is the same or similar to
   that of a licensed employment agency. If, however, the ap-
   plicant is a member of an employment agency system hav-
   ing other enfranchised members, the bureau shall accept a
   proposed name which utilizes the name of the system to-
   gether with a designation not already licensed to another
    agency which the bureau determines will reasonably serve
   to identify the applicant. In such case the applicant shall
    have the right to continue to use such name only so long as
    job positions advertised by it are made available to persons
    inquiring about such job positions at offices of other mem-
   bers of the system.
       Notwithstanding the provisions of this subdivision, the
    bureau shall approve as the proposed name, except where a
    different name is applied for, the name of an applicant as
   it appears on a valid, current employment agency license
    issued on or before June 30, 1967. When such name is used
   on any sign, advertising, or promotional material, the entire
    name as shown on the license shall be used.
       (e) Such questions and information as will assure the
    bureau of the applicant's eligibility to hold license, as estab-
    lished in Section 9944.
        (f) The names and addresses of all persons, except bona
    fide employees on commission or stated salaries, financially
    interested, either as partners, associates or profit sharers or
    anyone who receives any part of the income directly, in the
    operation of the agency in question, together with the amount
    of their respective interests.
        (g) The name and address of the candidate, or candidates,
    for examination. The candidate for examination shall be one
    of the persons named in subdivision (a) above. In the event
    of partnerships or corporations, each partner, or officer, may
    be a candidate for examination.
        (h) Such other information as the bureau may require.
 The application shall be accompanied by affidavits of at least
 two reputable residents of the city or county in which the
                     1969
Ch. 15961                   REGULAR SESSION                    3247

employment agency is to be conducted that the applicant is a
person of good moral character.


                        CHAPTER 1596
An act to amend Sections 6484, 6490, 6491, 6492, 6495, 6497,
  and 6498 of, and to add Section 6473.5 to, the Education
  Code, and to repeal Section 6 of Chapter 106 of the Statutes
  of 1966, First Extraordinary    Session, relating to special
  educational programs, making an appropriation       therefor,
  and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immedi-
  ately.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6473.5 is added to the Education Code,
to read:
   6473.5. The Director of Compensatory Education shall not
recommend, and the State Board of Education shall not ap-
prove, a project or program in compensatory education with-
out assurance that the teacher in the class in which the project
or program is to be conducted and other certificated personnel
required to provide services under the project or program hold
a regular credential.
   SEC. 1.5. Section 6484 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6484. Apportionments to a school district shall be in the
form of grants, no part of which shall be required to be
matched by a district as a condition to receiving state aid
under this article.
   I n making allocations pursuant to this article the Director
of Compensatory Education shall use an allocation factor
equivalent to the average statewide teacher salary per full-
time equivalent classroom teacher.
   SEC. 2. Section 6490 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
   6490. It is the intent and purpose of the Legislature that
exemplary programs be established for intensive instruction
in reading and mathematics to serve as demonstration projects
aimed solely at developing, within pupils, above-average com-
petence in these basic skill subjects. The program shall be
developed to serve pupils in grade 7, 8, or 9 who attend school
in designated areas of disadvantage, and who otherwise would
find difficulty in achieving complete success in high school.
   I t is the further intent of the Legislature that these pro-
grams in intensive instruction in reading and mathematics be
3248               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              r Q ^ l^QQ

 operated by school districts directly, or by school districts
 through contract for partial or complete operation with any
 competent public or private agency, foundation or corporation.
 I t is also the intent of the Legislature that authority be
 granted to permit the waiver of any provision of the Education
 Code by the program approving agency, if such is necessary
 for the development of model demonstration programs in the
 intensive instruction in reading and mathematics.
    SEC. 3. Section 6491 of the Education Code is amended to
 read:
    6491. From the funds appropriated therefor by the Legisla-
 ture to the Department of Education for the purposes of this
 article, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, upon recom-
mendation of the Director of Compensatory Education, with
 the approval of the State Board of Education, shall administer
 this article and make apportionments to school districts to meet
 the total approved expense of the school districts incurred in
 establishing demonstration programs in the intensive instruc-
 tion in reading and mathematics for pupils in grades 7, 8, or 9.
    SEC. 4. Section 6492 of the Education Code is amended to
  read:
    6492. The governing board of any district which maintains
 grades 7, 8, or 9 on account of any school or schools located
 in any area designated by the Director of Compensatory Edu-
 cation pursuant to the provisions of Education Code Section
 6482, may make application to establish and operate a program
 under this article. The application shall be in the form and
 shall contain such data and information as the director shall
 specify.
    SEC. 4.5. Section 6495 of the Education Code is amended
to read:
    6495. The State Board of Education shall adopt regulations
setting forth the standards and criteria to be used in the evalu-
ation of applications submitted by school districts. The stand-
ards and criteria adopted by the State Board of Education,
among other items, shall include a statement of specific goals
to be sought in the program both in terms of pupil achieve-
ment and for the purpose of establishing a model program, and
the requirements for evaluation of the program.
    Projects shall be approved only if it can be shown that, if
successful, the cost effectiveness of the project will be such as
to be adaptable within the budgets of other similar school dis-
tricts throughout the state.
    Projects shall be continually reviewed regarding their effec-
tiveness in improving the achievement levels of pupils in read-
ing and mathematics. Projects which are least cost effective
shall be terminated and shall be replaced with ones of proven
effectiveness or by new projects which hold promise of in-
creased effectiveness.
                     1969
Ch 15971                    REGULAR SESSION                    3249

   SEC. 5. Section 6497 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   6497. No later than the fifth legislative day of each regular
session of the Legislature, the Superintendent of Public
 Instruction, upon recommendation of the Director of Com-
pensatory Education, with approval of the State Board of
 Education, shall submit a report to the Legislature on the
implementation and evaluation of demonstration programs
under this article, including the achievement of pupils, an
analysis of the costs of each project detailed in terms of the
costs of design, implementation and continuing operational
expenses, including the degree of cost effectiveness of each
project. The report shall also include recommendations con-
cerning improvement, retention, extension or other aspects of
the program.
   SEC. 6. Section 6498 of the Education Code is amended to
read:
   6498. This article shall have no force or effect after the
91st day following the adjournment of the 1972 Eegular Ses-
sion of the Legislature.
   SEC. 7. Section 6 of Chapter 106 of the Statutes of 1966,
First Extraordinary Session, is repealed.
   SEC. 8. The sum of nine million five hundred thousand
dollars ($9,500,000) is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund to the Department of Education for the purposes of
this act.
   SEC. 9. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   In order for the programs continued in effect by this act to
be available at the beginning of the 1969-1970 school year, this
act must become effective immediately.


                        CHAPTER 1597
An act to amend Section 8170 of the Government Code and
  Sections 2, 4, 4.5, 5, and 7 of Chapter 1242, 1963 Statutes,
  relating to the Capitol Area Plan.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 8170 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  8170. Following the adoption of the official master plan by
the Legislature, the commission shall report to that body at
each of its sessions. The report shall list the state building
3250              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfa   ^597

construction projects initiated or completed since the last re-
port, shall set forth the commission's appraisal of the degree
to which such projects conform to the official master plan and
shall incorporate the report made to it by the Director of
General Services relating to his acquisition and improvement
of real property in the City of Sacramento. The commission
may include in its report such recommendations for revisions
of the plan as from time to time become necessary or desirable
for the orderly development of the Capitol area.
    SEC. 2. Section 2 of Chapter 1242 of the Statutes of 1963
is amended to read:
    Sec. 2. There is hereby appropriated the sum of thirteen
million dollars ($13,000,000), or so much thereof as may be
necessary, from the School Land Fund for the acquisition and
improvement of real property in the City of Sacramento and
within the boundaries of the Capitol Area Plan as approved
 and adopted by the Legislature for use as parking lots and as
sites for state buildings and other improvements consistent
with the Capitol Area Plan. The real property shall be acquired
under the provisions of the Property Acquisition Law except
that the Department of General Services shall have jurisdic-
 tion and control of the real property free of any trust or other
obligations. Improvements constructed under this section shall
be limited to the construction of parking facilities and the re-
pair and alteration of improvements existing on the land at the
time of purchase by the state.
    SEC. 3. Section 4 of Chapter 1242 of the Statutes of 1963
is amended to read:
    Sec. 4. The Director of General Services may lease all or
 any portion of the real property on such terms and conditions
as he may determine and shall maintain, improve, and care for
such property in order to secure rent therefrom. The director
may sell, remove, or demolish buildings or other structures on
the property when he deems it desirable to do so. If the direc-
tor leases all or any portion of the real property to any private
person for other than parking, twenty-four percent (24%) of
the money received as rental under any such lease shall be de-
posited in the "State Properties Rental F u n d " created by
 Section 4.5. Except for any money required to be deposited in
the "State Properties Rental F u n d , " all moneys collected pur-
suant to this section shall be deposited in the General Fund
 as provided by Section 15863 of the Government Code and all
moneys now or hereafter so deposited shall be available for
the purposes set forth in Section 15863 and for the purposes
set forth in Section 5 of this act. Upon the effective date of
the amendment to this section made at the 1969 Regular Ses-
 sion, any unencumbered balance available under the provisions
of Section 15863, after the above deposit is made, which is in
 excess of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) shall be
transferred by the Controller on order of the Director of Gen-
eral Services to the unappropriated balance of the General
                     1969
Ch. 1597]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3251

Fund. A similar transfer shall be made at the end of each fiscal
year. The Director of General Services shall report expendi-
tures for the past fiscal year, estimate expenditures for the
current fiscal year, and project proposed expenditures for the
budget year in the budget document each fiscal year.
   Notwithstanding anything contained herein the director may
designate portions of the real property as parking facilities
under the provisions of Government Code Section 14678, in
which case revenues from parking shall be deposited as therein
provided.
    SEC. 4. Section 4.5 of Chapter 1242 of the Statutes of 1963
is amended to read:
    Sec. 4.5. There is hereby created in the State Treasury
the '' State Properties Eental F u n d . ' '
    The Director of General Services shall, not later than the
first day of November next following the close of any fiscal
year after the effective date of this act, pay the rents deposited
in the " S t a t e Properties Eental F u n d " to the County of Sac-
ramento. The director shall notify the county of the rental and
location of each piece of rental property for which rents are
deposited in the fund.
    The county shall distribute any payment received by it
pursuant to this section to itself, to each revenue district for
which the county assesses and collects real property taxes or
assessments, and to every other taxing agency within the
county in which the property is situated. The amount dis-
tributable to the county and each such revenue district or
other taxing agency shall be proportionate to the ratio which
the amount of the taxes and assessments of each on similar
real property similarly situated within that part of the county
embracing the smallest in area of the revenue districts or other
taxing agencies other than the county, levied for the fiscal
year next preceding, bears to the combined amount of the
 taxes and assessments of all such districts and agencies, in-
eluding the county, on such property levied for that year.
 The county auditor shall determine and certify the amounts
 distributable to the board of supervisors, which shall thereupon
 order the making of the distribution.
    Any money distributed pursuant to this section to the
 county, or revenue district or other taxing agency shall be
 deposited to the credit of the same fund as any taxes or assess-
 ments on any taxable similar real property similarly situated.
    Where the county receives a payment pursuant to this sec-
 tion in an amount of twenty-five dollars ($25) or less in
 respect to any parcel of leased property, all of such payment
 shall be distributed to the county for deposit in the county
 general fund.
    As used in this section, the terms "taxing agency" and
  "revenue district" have the same meanings given them in the
 Kevenue and Taxation Code.
 3252               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Q}^ ^593

   The money received by the respective jurisdictions under
this section may be expended by them for any proper state
purpose not prohibited by the State Constitution.
   SEC. 5. Section 5 of Chapter 1242 of the Statutes of 1963
is amended to read:
   Sec. 5. All costs or expenses, including administrative
costs, incurred in maintaining, improving and caring for such
real property or in demolishing, selling, or removing improve-
ments therefrom, may be reimbursed or paid from moneys
available under the provisions of Section 15863 of the Govern-
ment Code.
   SEC. 6. Section 7 of Chapter 1242 of the Statutes of 1963
is amended to read:
   Sec. 7. The Director of General Services shall submit an
annual report to the Capitol Building and Planning Commis-
sion which shall fully report all the acquisitions, prices paid,
improvements made and revenues received on account of the
activities authorized by this act. Such report shall also include
a statement of all costs and expenses, including administrative
costs, incurred under this act. The director's report shall be
made a part of the annual report submitted to the Legislature
by the commission.

                         CHAPTER 1598
        An act to amend Sections 35711 and, 35712 of the
           Vehicle Code, relating to vehicle weights.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 35711 of the Vehicle Code is amended
to read:
   35711. No ordinance adopted pursuant to Section 35706
 or 35707 or 35712 shall prohibit any commercial vehicle from
using any county highway by direct route to or from a state
highway for the purpose of delivering or loading for trans-
portation goods, wares, or merchandise.
   SEC. 2. Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   35712. (a) Any county may by ordinance prohibit the use
of any highway located in an unincorporated residential or
subdivision area by any commercial vehicle exceeding a gross
weight of 14,000 pounds.
   (b) Any county of the third class as denned by Section
28024 of the Government Code or of the ninth elass as denned
by Section 28030 of the Government Code may, by ordinance,
prohibit the use of any highway located in an unincorporated
residential or subdivision area by any commercial vehicle ex-
ceeding a gross weight of 5,000 pounds.
                       1969
Ch. 15991                     REGULAR SESSION                     3253

   (c) This section does not apply to a vehicle operated by or
on behalf of a public utility in connection with the installation,
operation, maintenance, or repair of its facilities.
   SBO. 3. Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code is amended to
read:
   35712. (a) Any county may by ordinance prohibit the use
of any highway located in an unincorporated residential or
subdivision area by any commercial vehicle exceeding a gross
weight of 14,000 pounds.
   (b) Any county of the third class as denned by Section
28024 of the Government Code or of the ninth class as denned
by Section 28030 of the Government Code may, by ordinance,
prohibit the use of any highway located in an unincorporated
residential or subdivision are by any commercial vehicle ex-
ceeding a gross weight of 5,000 pounds.
   (c) This section does not apply to a vehicle operated by or
on behalf of a public utility in connection with the installation,
operation, maintenance, or repair of its facilities.
   (d) No ordinance which is adopted pursuant to this section
after the effective date of the amendments to this section
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature shall
apply to any state highway which is included in the national
system of interstate and defense highways, except an ordinance
which has been approved by the California Highway Commis-
sion by a four-fifths vote.
   SEC. 4. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code proposed by both this
bill and S.B. 1075 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 35712 in the form set forth
in Section 3 of this act. Therefore, in the event S.B. 1075 is
enacted and amends Section 35712, Section 3 of this act shall
become operative at the same time that Section 35712 as
amended by S.B. 1075 becomes operative, and at that time,
Section 35712 of the Vehicle Code as amended by Section 2
of this act is repealed.

                           CHAPTER 1599
An act to amend Sections 12000, 12500, and 68204 of, to add
  Article 1 (commencing with Section 11550) and Article 3
  (commencing with Section 11675) to Chapter 6 of Part 1
  of Division 3 of Title 2 of, and to repeal Article 1 (com-
  mencing with Section 11550) of Chapter 6 of Part 1 of Di-
  vision 3 of Title 2 of, and Section 12505 of, the Government
  Code, relating to salaries of state officials.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
3254              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Gh. 1599

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 1 (commencing with Section 11550), of
Chapter 6, Part 1, Division 3, Title 2 of the Government Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Article 1 (commencing with Section 11550) is
added to Chapter 6, Part 1, Division 3, Title 2 of the Govern-
ment Code, to read:

          Article 1.   Salaries of Specified Positions
   11550. An annual salary of thirty-five thousand dollars
 ($35,000) shall be paid to each of the following:
   (a) Director of Finance
   (b) Secretary of Business and Transportation Agency
   (c) Secretary of Eesources Agency
   (d) Secretary of Human Relations Agency
   (e) Secretary of Agriculture and Services Agency.
   11550.5. An annual salary of thirty-two thousand five
hundred dollars ($32,500) shall be paid to each of the follow-
ing:
   (a) Director of Mental Hygiene
   (b) Director of Public Health.
   11551. An annual salary of thirty-one thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($31,500) shall be paid to each of the following:
   (a) President of the Public Utilities Commission.
   11552. An annual salary of thirty thousand dollars ($30,
000) shall be paid to each of the following:
   (a) Superintendent of Banks
   (b) Commissioner of Corporations
   (c) Director of Employment
   (d) Insurance Commissioner
   (e) Director of Public Works
   (f) Eeal Estate Commissioner
   (g) Savings and Loan Commissioner
   (h) Director of Social "Welfare
   (i) Director of Water Resources
   (j) Director of Agriculture
   (k) Director of Corrections
   (I) Director of General Services
   (m) Director of Industrial Relations
   (n) Director of Motor Vehicles
   (o) Director of Youth Authority
   (p) Director of Health Care Services
   (q) Commissioner, California Highway Patrol
   (r) Members of the Public Utilities Commission
   (s) Director of Human Resources Development
   (t) Director of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   11552.5. Effective January 1, 1971 an annual salary of
thirty-five thousand dollars ($35,000) shall be paid to each of
the following:
                   1969
Ch. 1599]                 REGULAR SESSION                3255

    (a) Lieutenant Governor
    (b) Secretary of State
    (c) State Controller
   (d) State Treasurer
   (e) Superintendent of Public Instruction.
   11553. An annual salary of twenty-eight thousand eight
hundred seventy-five dollars ($28,875) will be paid to each
of the following:
   (a) Chairman of the Unemployment Insurance Appeals
Board.
   11554. An annual salary of twenty-seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($27,500) shall be paid to each of the follow-
ing:
    (a) Director of Conservation
    (b) Director of Fish and Game
    (c) Executive Officer, Franchise Tax Board
    (d) Director of Parks and Eeereation
   (e) Director of Eehabilitation
    (f) Director of Veterans Affairs
    (g) Director of Commerce
    (h) Director of Professional and Vocational Standards
   (i) Members of the Unemployment Insurance Appeals
Board
   (j) Deputy Director of the Department of Justice
   (k) State Architect.
   11555. An annual salary of twenty-six thousand two hun-
dred fifty dollars ($26,250) shall be paid to the following:
   (a) Chairman of the Adult Authority Board
    (b) Chairman of the Board of Equalization
    (c) Chairman of the State "Water Resources Control
Board
   (d) Chairman of the Youth Authority Board.
   11556. An annual salary of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000) shall be paid to each of the following:
    (a) Director of Harbors and Watercraft
    (b) Director, California Disaster Office
    (c) Director, Department of Housing and Community De-
velopment
    (d) Members of the Adult Authority
    (e) Members of the Board of Equalization
    (f) Members of the State "Water Resources Control Board
    (g) Members of the Youth Authority Board
    (h) State Fire Marshal
    (i) Deputy Director of Employment.
   11558. An annual salary of twenty-three thousand dollars
 ($23,000) shall be paid to each of the following:
    (a) State Planning Officer.
   11558.5. An annual salary of twenty-two thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($22,500) shall be paid to each of the following:
    (a) State Printer.
3256              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Q^   I599

   11559. An annual salary of twenty thousand dollars ($20,-
000) shall be paid to each of the following:
    (a) Commissioner of Economic Development.
   11560. An annual salary of eighteen thousand nine hun-
 dred dollars ($18,900) shall be paid to each of the following:
    (a) Presiding Officer of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Appeals Board.
   11560.1. An annual salary of eighteen thousand dollars
 ($18,000) shall be paid to each of the following:
    (a) Each member of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Ap-
peals Board
    (b) Consumer Counsel
    (c) Secretary of the California Horse Racing Board.
   11562.5. An annual salary of twelve thousand six hundred
 dollars ($12,600) shall be paid to each of the following:
   (a) Chairman, Narcotic Addict Evaluation Authority.
   11563.1. An annual salary of eleven thousand nine hun-
 dred seventy dollars ($11,970) shall be paid to each of the
following:
   (a) Members, Narcotic Addict Evaluation Authority.
   11563.2. An annual salary of eleven thousand three hun-
dred forty dollars ($11,340) shall be paid to each of the
following :
    (a) Chairman, California "Women's Board of Terms and
Paroles.
   11563.3. An annual salary of nine thousand three hundred
forty-five dollars ($9,345) shall be paid to each of the fol-
lowing :
   (a) Chairman, Board of Barber Examiners.
   11563.5. An annual salary of ten thousand seven hun-
dred ten dollars ($10,710) shall be paid to each of the fol-
lowing :
   (a) Member, California Women's Board of Terms and
Paroles.
   11563.6. An annual salary of eight thousand eight hundred
twenty dollars ($8,820) shall be paid to each of the following:
   (a) Member, Board of Barber Examiners.
   11563.7. An annual salary of ten thousand eighty dollars
 ($10,080) shall be paid to each of the following:
   (a) Member, State Personnel Board.
   11564. An annual salary of two thousand two hundred
sixty-eight dollars ($2,268) shall be paid to each of the fol-
lowing :
   (a) Commissioner-Secretary, Board of Harbor Commission-
ers for Humboldt Bay.
   11565. An annual salary of six hundred thirty dollars
 ($630) shall be paid to each of the following:
   (a) Commissioner, Board of Harbor Commissioners for
Humboldt Bay.
   SEC. 2.5. Section 12000 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
                      19G9
Ch. 15991                    REGULAR   SESSION             g25?

  12000. The annual salary of the Governor is forty-nine
thousand one hundred dollars ($49,100).
  SEC. 2.6. Section 12500 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  12500. An annual salary of forty-two thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($42,500) shall be paid to the Attorney General.
The annual salary of the Attorney General includes all services
rendered ex officio as member of any board or commission.
  SEC. 2.7. Section 12505 of the Government Code is re-
pealed.
  SEC. 3. Article 3 (commencing with Section 11675) is
added to Chapter 6, Part 1, Division 3, Title 2, of the Govern-
ment Code, to read:

         Article 3.    Committee on Executive Salaries
   11675. There is established a Committee on Executive
Salaries which shall consist of the following: (1) the Gover-
nor's Appointment Secretary, (2) two Members of the Senate
appointed by the Senate Eules Committee, (3) two Members
of the Assembly appointed by the Speaker thereof, (4) the
Chairman of the Commission on California State Government
Organization and Economy, (5) a member of the Commission
on California State Government Organization and Economy
appointed by the chairman of the commission, (6) a member
of the State Personnel Board, and (7) the Director of the De-
partment of Finance.
   11676. The members of the committee shall be appointed
biennially, starting January 30, 1970, for a period of one
year.
   11677. Staff assistance to the committee shall be supplied
jointly by the Department of Finance, the Legislative Ana-
lyst, and the State Personnel Board.
   11678. The committee shall investigate and study all perti-
nent data regarding salary changes of state personnel and
similar executive positions in private and other government
organizations. The committee will assist the Governor and the
Legislature in maintaining equitable salary relations inter-
nally among the various executives. It shall report at least once
every two years to the Legislature starting in January, 1971
and recommend statutory changes where appropriate.
   11679. The Members of the Legislature appointed to the
committee shall meet with and participate in the work of the
committee to the extent that such participation is not incom-
patible with their positions as Members of the Legislature. For
the purposes of this article, such Members of the Legislature
shall constitute a joint investigating committee on the subject
of this article, and. shall have the powers and duties imposed
on such committees by the Joint Rules of the Senate and As-
sembly.
3258                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                      TQ^ 1600

  SEC. 3.5. Section 68204 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  68204. The justices and judges named in Sections 68200 to
68202, inclusive, shall not be deemed state officers for the pur-
poses of Section 11569.
  SEC. 4. An annual salary of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000) shall be paid to each of the following:
  (a) Lieutenant Governor
  (b) Secretary of State
  (c) State Controller
  (d) State Treasurer
  (e) Superintendent of Public Instruction.
  This section shall be inoperative after January 1, 1971.


                          CHAPTBE 1600
An act to amend Sections 12500 and 68204 of, and to repeal
  Section 12505 of, the Government Code, relating to salary
  of the Attorney General.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 12500 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
   12500. An annual salary of forty-two thousand five hun-
dred dollars ($42,500) shall be paid to the Attorney General.
The annual salary of the Attorney General includes all serv-
ices rendered ex officio as member of any board or commission.
   SEC. 2. Section 12505 of the Government Code is repealed.
   SEC. 3. Section 68204 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   68204. The justices and judges named in Sections 68200
to 68202, inclusive, shall not be deemed to be state officers for
the purposes of Section 11569.
   SEC. 4. This act shall become operative January 1, 1971.


                         CHAPTER 1601
An act to amend Section 19428 of the Business and Profes-
  sions Code and Section 11560 of the Government Code,
  relating to state officers' salaries.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]
                       1969
Ch. 1602]                     REGULAR SESSION                     3259

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 19428 of the Business and Professions
Code is amended to read:
   19428. The board shall appoint a secretary who shall re-
ceive the annual salary established by the board and approved
by the Director of Finance.
   SEC. 2. Section 11560 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   11560. An annual salary of fourteen thousand dollars
 ($14,000) shall be paid to each member of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Appeals Board.


                           CHAPTBK 1602
An act to amend Section 72602 of, and to add Section 72602.14
    to, the Government Code, relating to municipal courts.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.)

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 72602 of the Government Code is
amended to read:
  72602. Each of the Los Angeles County municipal courts
established in judicial districts shall have the number of
judges set out below opposite the name of the judicial district
over which such court has jurisdiction:
  Whittier Municipal Court District                        3
   San Antonio Municipal Court District                    3
  East Los Angeles Municipal Court District                3
  Inglewood Municipal Court District                       2
   South Bay Municipal Court District                      3
   Compton Municipal Court District                        3
  Downey Municipal Court District                          2
   Los Angeles Municipal Court District                   49
   Santa Anita Municipal Court District                    1
   Alhambra Municipal Court District                       3
   Los Cerritos Municipal Court District                   2
  Long Beach Municipal Court District                      5
   Beverly Hills Municipal Court District                  3
   Santa Monica Municipal Court District                   2
   Burbank Municipal Court District                        2
   Glendale Municipal Court District                       2
  Pasadena Municipal Court District                        4
   El Monte Municipal Court District                       3
   Pomona Municipal Court District                         2
   South Gate Municipal Court District                      1
   Citrus Judicial District                                4
 3260             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             ["QJj^ l g Q 2

   Antelope Municipal Court District                         1
   Culver Municipal Court District                           1
   Newhall Municipal Court District                          2
   SEC. 2. Section 72602 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   72602. Each of the Los Angeles County municipal courts
established in judicial districts shall have the number of
judges set out below opposite the name of the judicial district
over which such court has jurisdiction:
  Whittier Municipal Court District                        3
  San Antonio Municipal Court District                     3
  East Los Angeles Municipal Court District                3
  Inglewood Municipal Court District                       2
  South Bay Municipal Court District                       3
  Compton Municipal Court District                         3
  Downey Municipal Court District                          2
  Los Angeles Municipal Court District                   49
  Santa Anita Municipal Court District                     1
  Alhambra Municipal Court District                        3
  Los Cerritos Municipal Court District                    2
  Long Beach Municipal Court District                      5
  Beverly Hills Municipal Court District                   3
  Santa Monica Municipal Court District                    3
  Burbank Municipal Court District                         2
  Glendale Municipal Court District                        2
  Pasadena Municipal Court District                        4
  El Monte Municipal Court District                        3
  Pomona Municipal Court District                          3
  South Gate Municipal Court District                      1
  Citrus Judicial District                                4
  Antelope Municipal Court District                       1
  Culver Municipal Court District                         1
  Newhall Municipal Court District                        2

   SEC. 3. Section 72602.14 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   72602.14. Upon the appointment of a second judge to the
Newhall Municipal Court District, the office of commissioner
in such district will become vacant, and, thereafter shall not
be filled without the specific consent of the Legislature upon
the recommendation of the Judicial Council, pursuant to a
statute, and the approval of the county board of supervisors.
   SEC. 4. It is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 72602 of the Government Code proposed by both
this bill and Assembly Bill No. 1194 are enacted, that, opera-
tive January 1, 1970, both amendments be given effect and
incorporated in Section 72602 in the form set forth in Section
2 of this act. Therefore, in the event Assembly Bill No. 1194
is enacted and amends Section 72602. Section 1 of this act
shall not take effect, and Section 2 of this act shall become
                        1969
Ch. 16031                      REGuiiAR SESSION                   3261

operative on January 1, 1970. I t is the intent of the Legis-
lature that if Assembly Bill No. 1194 is enacted, Section 72602
of the Government Code as amended by that bill remain in
effect until January 1, 1970. If Assembly Bill No. 1194 is not
enacted, Section 2 of this act shall not take effect.
   SEC. 5. Sections 1 and 3 of this act shall become operative
on January 1,1970.

                           CHAPTER 1603
An act to amend Sections 21683 and 21685 of the Public
  Utilities Code, relating to the Airport Assistance Revolving
  Fund.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 21683 of the Public Utilities Code is
amended to read:
   21683. (a) No payment shall be made to a public entity
pursuant to Section 21682 unless the public entity has estab-
lished a special aviation fund and deposits in such fund each
year, for expenditure solely for airport and aviation purposes,
a sum at least equal to the amount to be paid by the division
pursuant to Section 21682. Payments received by a public
entity shall be deposited in its special aviation fund.
    (b) No payment shall be made for any airport to the Uni-
versity of California pursuant to Section 21682 unless the
university has established a special aviation fund and
 deposits in such fund each year, for expenditures solely for
 airport and aviation purposes, a sum at least equal to the
 amount to be paid by the Department of Aeronautics pursuant
 to Section 21682. University matching funds deposited pur-
 suant to this section shall not include state or federal appro-
 priated funds. Payments received by the university shall be
 deposited in its special aviation fund.
     (c) Allocated and matching funds under this program may
 be accrued for a period of not more than three years. Ex-
 tension of time for accrual of these funds for major projects
 must be obtained from the Department of Aeronautics.
     (d) Payments made to public entities from the Airport As-
 sistance Fund and matching funds must be expended upon the
 airport for which funds are requested. If a public entity owns
 more than one airport, allocated and matching funds for other
 airports cannot be expended or accrued for expenditure on one
 selected airport, provided, however, that the division may
 grant a waiver of the provisions of this subdivision in extenu-
 ating circumstances.
     (e) No allocation shall be made to any public entity or to
 the University of California from the Airport Assistance Re-
3262              STATUTES OB1 CALIFORNIA             TQh. 1604

volving F u n d for expenditure upon any airport which is not
open to use by the general public.
  SEC. 2. Section 21685 of the Public Utilities Code is
amended to read:
   21685. Any public entity and the University of California
may apply to the Department of Aeronautics during the first
six months of the year for the allocation of funds for the
acquisition and development of airports. The Department of
Aeronautics may make an allocation to a public entity and the
University of California if it determines that the proposed
acquisition and development is feasible and in accordance with
the policies and standards established by the Department of
Aeronautics.
  No allocation shall be made to a public entity unless it has
established a special aviation fund and has deposited in such
fund, for expenditure solely for acquisition and development
of airports, a sum at least equal to the allocation which the
Department of Aeronautics is to make. All moneys re-
ceived by a public entity pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in its special aviation fund and shall be expended
solely for the acquisition and development of airports. No
money allocated under Section 21684 or money appropriated
by the public entity for matching this allocation shall be
expended for operation or maintenance of an airport.
  No allocation shall be made to the University of Cali-
fornia unless it has established a special aviation fund
and has deposited in such fund, for expenditure solely for
acquisition and development of airports, a sum at least equal
to the allocation which the Department of Aeronautics is to
make. University matching funds deposited pursuant to this
section shall not include state or federal appropriated funds.
All money received by the university pursuant to this section
shall be deposited in its special aviation fund and shall be ex-
pended solely for the acquisition and development of airports
to be used by the general public. No money allocated under
Section 21684 or money deposited by the university to match
this allocation shall be expended for operation or maintenance
of an airport.
  No allocation shall be made to any public entity or to the
University of California from the Airport Assistance Revolv-
ing F u n d for expenditure upon any airport which is not open
to use by the general public.


                       CHAPTER 1604
An act to add Article 4 (commencing with Section 21680) to
  Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 9 of, and to repeal Article 4
  (commencing with Section 21680) of Chapter 4 of Part 1
                        1969
Ch. 1604]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3263

  of Division 9 of, the Public Utilities Code, relating to the
  Airport Assistance Revolving Fund.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Article 4 (commencing with Section 21680) of
Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 9 of the Public Utilities Code
is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Article 4 (commencing with Section 21680) is
added to Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 9 of the Public
Utilities Code, to read:

        Article 4. Airport Assistance Kevolving F u n d
  21680. The Airport Assistance Eevolving F u n d is hereby
continued in the State Treasury. The moneys in the fund
are continuously appropriated for expenditure by the board
and the department as provided in this article.
  21681. For the purposes of this article:
     (a) "Own and operate" means that the public entity
  must own property in fee simple or by a long-term lease of
  a minimum of 20 years, unless otherwise approved by the
  department, and must maintain dominion and control of
  the property. Operations of the airport will be for and
  on behalf of the public entity. All leases to the public
  entity of property must be approved by the department. A
  lease of the property to an agent or agency other than the
  public entity does not meet the criteria for participation in
  airport assistance funds.
     (b) "Matching f u n d s " means new moneys that must be
  provided each year by the public entity. Previous fund
  balances, previous matching funds, and funds received
  from state and federal agencies shall not constitute matching
  funds.
      (c) "General aviation" means all aviation with the ex-
   ception of air carrier and military aviation.
      (d) "Public agency" means any city, county, airport
   district, airport authority, port district, port authority,
   public district, public authority, political subdivision or
   public corporation.
      (e) "Public e n t i t y " means public agencies and the Uni-
   versity of California.
      (f) "Airport and aviation purposes" means expendi-
   tures of a capital improvement nature for any of the follow-
   ing purposes:
      (1) Land acquisition for development and improve-
   ment of general aviation aircraft landing facilities.
      (2) Grading and drainage necessary for the construction
   or reconstruction of runways or taxiways.

    103—1954
3264                STATUTES Of CALIFORNIA                j"Q}1< XQ04-

       (3) Construction or reconstruction of runways or taxi-
    ways.
       (4) Acquisition of "runway clear zones" as defined in
    current regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration.
       (5) Acquisition of easements through, or other interests
    in, airspace as may be reasonably required for safeguarding
    aircraft operations in the vicinity of an aircraft landing
    facility.
       (6) Bemoval of natural obstructions from runway clear
    zones.
       (7) Original installation of "segmented circle airport
    marker systems" as denned in current regulations of the
    Federal Aviation Administration.
       (8) Original installation of runway, taxiway, boundary,
    or obstruction lights, together with directly related electrical
    equipment.
       (9) Original erection of minimum security fencing around
    the perimeter of an aircraft landing facility.
       (10) Grading and drainage necessary to provide for park-
    ing of transient general aviation aircraft.
       (11) Servicing of revenue or general obligation bonds
    issued to finance capital improvements for airport and avia-
    tion purposes.
       (12) Such other capital improvements as may from time
   to time be designated in rules and regulations promulgated
   by the department.
 Expenditures which cannot be clearly identified as capital
 improvements must be submitted to the department for con-
 sideration and approval.
    (g) "Operation and maintenance" means expenditures for
wages or salaries, utilities, service vehicles, and all other non-
capital expenditures which are included in insurance, profes-
sional services, supplies, construction equipment, upkeep and
landscaping, and such other items of expenditure which may
be designated as "operation and maintenance" in rules and
regulations promulgated by the department.
   21682. (a) The department shall, subject to the provisions
of Section 21684, pay from the fund to each public agency
owning and operating an airport or airports under a valid
permit issued by the department the sum of two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500) annually for each such airport,
to be expended solely for airport and aviation purposes.
   (b) The department shall, subject to the provisions of Sec-
tion 21684, pay from the fund to the University of California
the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) annually
for each airport used by the general public and owned and
operated by the university under a valid permit issued by the
department, to be expended solely for the airport and for
aviation purposes related to such airport.
   (c) If, in any year, there is insufficient money in the fund
to make the payments specified in subdivisions (a) and (b),
                     1969
 Ch. 1604]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3265

  the department shall, subject to the provisions of Section
  21684, pay to each such public entity an amount which is
  equal to the total amount of money in the fund multiplied by
  a percentage equivalent to the proportion which the airport
  or airports of the public entity for which payment is required
  to be made pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b) bear to the
  total number of airports for which payment is required to
  be made pursuant to subdivisions (a) and (b).
     (d) No moneys paid under this section shall be expended
  for operation and maintenance.
     (e) No payment shall be made under this section to any
  public entity for any airport on which general or commercial
  aviation activities are substantially restricted if the airport
 is licensed to conduct such activities by the department. The
 department shall determine whether or not general or com-
 mercial aviation activities are restricted.
     21683. Any balance remaining in the fund after the pay-
 ments made under Section 21682 shall be used at the discre-
 tion of the board for airport and aviation purposes, subject to
 the provisions of Section 21684.
    Any public entity may apply to the department prior to
 January 31 in each year for the allocation of funds for the
 acquisition or development of airports. The board may, pur-
 suant to rules and regulations promulgated by the depart-
 ment, make an allocation to such public entity if it determines
 that the proposed acquisition or development is feasible and
in accordance with the policies and standards established by
the department. The department shall make recommendations
to the board on all applications. Such allocations will be rep-
 resented as subventions in the department budget in accord-
 ance with Section 21206.
    Payments made to public entities from the Airport Assist-
ance Revolving Fund, and matching funds, must be expended
for airport and aviation purposes upon the airport for which
funds are requested; provided, however, that the department
may grant a waiver in extenuating circumstances. No moneys
paid under this section shall be expended for operation and
maintenance. No payment shall be made under this section to
any public entity for any airport on which general or com-
mercial aviation activities are substantially restricted if the
airport is licensed to conduct such activities by the depart-
ment. The department shall determine whether or not general
or commercial aviation activities are restricted.
    21684. (a) No payment shall be made to a public agency
pursuant to this article unless the public agency has estab-
lished a special aviation fund in which all payments received
by a public agency under this article shall be deposited for
expenditure solely for airport and aviation purposes. No pay-
ment shall be made to a public agency pursuant to Section
21682 or 21683 unless the public agency deposits in its spe-
cial aviation fund each year, for expenditures solely for
 3266               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ J 6 0 4

  airport and aviation purposes, a sum at least equal to the
  amount to be paid by the board or the department pursuant to
  these sections. Notwithstanding the provisions of this sub-
  division inasmuch as they require matching funds, the de-
  partment shall pay a sum of two thousand five hundred dol-
  lars ($2,500) annually to a county with a population of under
  1,000, as determined by the last federal decennial census, for
 the purpose of constructing and maintaining an airport.
     (b) No payment shall be made for any airport to the Uni-
 versity of California pursuant to this article unless the uni-
 versity has established a special aviation fund in which all
 payments received by the university under this article shall be
  deposited for expenditure solely for airport and aviation pur-
 poses. No payment shall be made for any airport to the Uni-
 versity of California pursuant to Section 21682 or
  21683 unless the university deposits in its special aviation fund
 each year, for expenditure solely for airport and aviation pur-
 poses, a sum from nonstate or nonfederal funds at least equal
 to the amount to be paid by the board or the department pur-
 suant to these sections, or unless a city located within 10 miles
 of the airport or the county within which the airport is lo-
 cated pays to the university a sum at least equal to the amount
 to be paid by the board or the department pursuant to these
 sections; provided, however, that any such sums deposited by
 the university or paid by such city or county may be considered
 jointly as meeting the requirements of this section. The pay-
 ments received from a city or county pursuant to these sec-
 tions are to be expended solely for the airport and for avia-
 tion purposes related to such airport. All payments received
 by the university shall be deposited in its special aviation fund.
     (c) Allocated and matching funds under this article may
 be accrued for a period of not more than three years. Exten-
 sion of time for accrual of these funds for major projects must
be obtained from the department.
    21685. Any public agency may pay any part of the money
in its special aviation fund to a state college or branch of the
University of California located within its boundaries to be
expended for the same purposes as the public agency may
expend such money. Any money paid to a state college or
branch of the University of California shall be expended
within the public agency paying the money.
    21686. I t shall be the duty of the State Controller to make
such audit or audits of the books and records of public en-
tities receiving payments or allocations under this article as
he may deem necessary from time to time for the purpose of
determining that the money received by such public entities
as payments or allocations hereunder has been expended for
the purposes and under the conditions authorized by this
article.
    21687. Whenever any airport, for which payments have
been made from the Airport Assistance Kevolving Fund,
Ch. 1604]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                     3267

ceases to be used as an airport open to the general public
for a period in excess of one year, the public entity to which
such payments were made shall pay to the state, which pay-
ments shall be deposited in the Airport Assistance Revolving
Fund, an amount computed by the State Controller. The
amount shall equal the total of all payments made for such
airport from the Airport Assistance Revolving F u n d during
the preceding 20 years less 5 percent of the amount of a
particular payment multiplied by the number of years since
the payment was made. The provisions of this section shall
not be applicable to an airport that is replaced by a com-
parable facility, as determined by the department, within a
period of one year.
   21688. (a) Effective July 1, 1967, no payments shall be
made from the Airport Assistance Revolving F u n d for ex-
penditure on any airport or for the acquisition or develop-
ment of any airport if the department determines that the
air space control and height restrictions in any airport hazard
area of the airport are inadequate to provide reasonable as-
surance that the landing and taking off of aircraft at the
airport will be conducted without obstruction or will be other-
wise free from hazards.
   The airspace control provisions shall not be considered
adequate unless as a minimum they comply with the require-
ments of Part 77 of the Federal Aviation Regulations of the
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transporta-
tion, or any corresponding rules or regulations of the Federal
Aviation Administration are met.
   (b) This section shall not prevent or prohibit the depart-
ment from assisting any city, county or airport district in
planning airport development or in planning the zoning needs
around an airport.
   SEC. 3. Section 21680 of the Public Utilities Code, as pro-
posed by Section 2 of this act, is amended to read:
   21680. The Airport Assistance Revolving F u n d is hereby
continued in existence as the Airport Assistance Revolving
Account in the State Transportation Fund. The moneys de-
posited to the credit of the account are continuously appropri-
ated for expenditure by the board and the department as
provided in this article.
   Any reference in any law or regulation to the Airport As-
sistance Revolving F u n d or to the Airport Assistance F u n d
shall be deemed to refer to the Airport Assistance Revolving
Account in the State Transportation Fund. As used in this
article, " f u n d " shall be deemed to refer to the Airport Assist-
ance Revolving Account in the Transportation Fund.
   SEC. 4. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if amendments
to Section 21680 of the Public Utilities Code proposed by A.B.
461 are enacted, that such amendments be given effect and
incorporated in Section 21680 in the form set forth in Section
3 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 461 is enacted and
3268                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Qh. 1605

amends Section 21680, Section 3 of this act shall become oper-
ative at the same time that Section 21680 as amended by A.B.
461 becomes operative, and at that time, Section 21680 of the
Public Utilities Code as proposed by Section 2 of this act is
repealed.

                         C H A P T E E 1605
An act to amend Section 23754 of, and to add Section 23754.2
     to, the Education Code, relating to the state colleges.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

    SECTION 1. Section 23754 of the Education Code is
 amended to read:
    23754. Except as otherwise specially provided, an admis-
 sion fee and rate of tuition fixed by the trustees shall be re-
 quired of each nonresident student. The rate of tuition to be
 paid by each nonresident student shall not be less than three
 hundred sixty dollars ($360) per year, except that the rate of
 tuition to be paid by each nonresident student who is a citizen
 and resident of a foreign country shall be two hundred fifty-
 five dollars ($255) per year through the 1969-70 academic
 year. Commencing with the 1970-71 academic year, the rate
 of tuition paid by each nonresident student who is a citizen
 and resident of a foreign country, except as otherwise spe-
 cifically provided, shall be fixed by the trustees and shall not
be less than three hundred sixty dollars ($360) per year. The
tuition fee for a nonresident student who is a citizen and resi-
 dent of a foreign country and who was in attendance at a state
college during the fall term of 1969, may be waived by the
trustees if they determine that the increased tuition fee will
cause a severe financial hardship on the student. Such waivers
may be granted through the spring term of 1973 or until the
student receives a baccalureate degree, whichever occurs first.
   No admission fee or tuition fee shall be required of any stu-
dent who is a citizen and resident of a foreign country and
who attends a state college under an agreement entered into by
a governmental agency formed under the Constitution or laws
of this state or a nonprofit corporation or organization so
formed, with a similar agency, or corporation or association,
domiciled in and organized under the laws of a foreign coun-
try, where a principal purpose of the agreement is to encourage
the exchange of students with the view of enhancing interna-
tional good will and understanding. The trustees shall, in each
instance, determine whether the conditions for such exemption
from fees exist and may prescribe appropriate procedures to
be complied with in obtaining the exemption.
                        1969
Ch. 1606]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3269

   No admission fee or tuition fee shall be required of any non-
resident student who is a full-time employee of the California
State Colleges or who is the child or spouse of an employee of
the California State Colleges.
   SEC. 2. Section 23754.2 is added to the Education Code, to
read:
   23754.2. The trustees have the power, on the basis of
demonstrated financial need and scholastic achievement, to
waive entirely, or to reduce below the rate, or the minimum
rate, fixed by Section 23754, the tuition fee of a nonresident
student who is a citizen and resident of a foreign country who
is an undergraduate student of exceptional scholastic ability
and prior scholastic achievement who is enrolled in a course
of study of no less than 10 semester units.
   The number of reductions and waivers granted by the
trustees under this section shall at no time exceed 7-J percent
of the nonresident undergraduate students who are citizens
and residents of a foreign country, then enrolled in the Cali-
fornia State Colleges.
   The provisions of this section shall become operative com-
mencing with the 1970-71 academic year.


                           CHAPTER 1606
An act to amend Sections 17053, 17461, 17462, 17535, 18211,
  23737, 24307, 24541, 24553, 24562 and 24563 of the Revenue
  and Taxation Code, relating to taxation.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary ot State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 17053 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
   17053. (a) In the case of an individual who has received
earned income before the beginning of the taxable year, there
shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this
part for the taxable year an amount equal to the amount re-
ceived by such individual as retirement income (as defined in
subdivision (c) and as limited by subdivision ( d ) ) , multiplied
by the rate provided in Section 17041 for the first two thou-
sand dollars ($2,000) of taxable income; but the credit pro-
vided by this section shall not exceed the tax imposed under
this part reduced by the credit allowable under Chapter 12
 (relating to taxes paid to other states) and the credit allow-
able under Section 17054 (relating to credits for personal ex-
emptions).
   (b) For purposes of subdivision (a), an individual shall
be considered to have received earned income if he has received,
in each of any 10 calendar years before the taxable year,
3270               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfa l g Q 6

 earned income, as denned in subdivision (g), in excess of six
hundred dollars ($600). A widow or widower whose spouse
had received such earned income shall be considered to have
received earned income.
    (c) For purposes of subdivision (a), the term "retirement
income" means—
    (1) In the case of an individual who has attained the age of
 65 before the close of the taxable year, income from—
    (A) Pensions and annuities,
    (B) Interest,
    (C) Eents, and
    (D) Dividends, or
    (2) In the case of an individual who has not attained the
 age of 65 before the close of the taxable year, income from
pensions and annuities under a public retirement system (as
defined in subdivision ( f ) ) , to the extent included in gross
income without reference to this section, but only to the extent
such income does not represent compensation for personal
services rendered during the taxable year.
    (d) For purposes of subdivision (a), the amount of retire-
ment income shall not exceed one thousand five hundred
twenty-four dollars ($1,524) less—
    (1) In the ease of any individual, any amount received by
the individual as a pension or annuity—
    (A) Under Title I I of the Social Security Act,
    (B) Under the Eailroad Retirement Acts of 1935 or 1937, or
    (C) Otherwise excluded from gross income, and
    (2) I n the case of any individual who has not attained the
age of 72 before the close of the taxable year—
    (A) If such individual has not attained age 62 before the
close of the taxable year, any amount of earned income (as
defined in subdivision (g)) in excess of nine hundred dollars
 ($900) received by the individual in the taxable year—
    (B) If such individual has attained age 62 before the close
of the taxable year, the sum of (i) one-half the amount of
earned income received by such individual in the taxable year
in excess of one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200) but not
in excess of one thousand seven hundred dollars ($1,700), and
 (ii) the amount of earned income so received in excess of one
thousand seven hundred dollars ($1,700).
    (e) Subdivision (d) (1) shall not apply to any amount
excluded from gross income under Sections 17101 to 17112,
inclusive (relating to annuities), 17131 to 17135, inclusive
(relating to life insurance proceeds), 17138 (relating to com-
pensation for injuries or sickness), 17139 (relating to amounts
received under accident and health plans), 17503 to 17507,
inclusive, (relating to taxability of beneficiary of employees'
trust), or 17511 and 17512 (relating to taxation of employee
annuities).
    (f) For purposes of subdivision ( c ) ( 2 ) , the term "public
retirement system" means a pension, annuity, retirement, or
                    1969   RE
Ch. 16061                       G U L A R SESSION            3271

similar fund or system established by the United States, a state,
a territory, a possession of the United States, any political sub-
division of any of the foregoing, or the District of Columbia.
    (g) For purposes of subdivision (b) and ( d ) ( 2 ) , the term
"earned income" has the meaning assigned to such term in
Section 911(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, except
that such term does not include any amount received as a pen-
sion or annuity.
   (h) (1) A husband and wife who make a joint return for
the taxable year and both of whom have attained the age of 65
before the close of the taxable year may elect (at such time and
in such manner as the Franchise Tax Board by regulations
prescribes) to determine the amount of the credit allowed by
subdivision (a) by applying the provisions of paragraph ( 2 ) .
    (2) If an election is made under paragraph (1) for the tax-
able year, for purposes of subdivision (a) —
   (A) If either spouse is an individual who has received
earned income within the meaning of subdivision (b), the other
spouse shall be considered to be an individual who has re-
ceived earned income within the meaning of such subdivision;
and
   (B) Subdivision (d) shall be considered as providing that
the amount of the combined retirement income of both spouses
shall not exceed two thousand two hundred eighty-six dollars
 ($2,286), less the sum of the amounts specified in paragraphs
 (1) and (2) of subdivision (d) for each spouse.
    (i) No credit shall be allowed under subdivision (a) to any
nonresident.
   SEC. 2. Section 17461 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   17461. (a) For the purposes of Article 1 (commencing
with Section 17321) to Article 7 (commencing with Section
17431), inclusive, of this chapter, the term "reorganization"
means—
    (1) A statutory merger or consolidation;
    (2) The acquisition by one corporation, in exchange solely
for all or a part of its voting stock (or in exchange solely for
all or a part of the voting stock of a corporation which is in
 control of the acquiring corporation), of stock of another
 corporation if, immediately after the acquisition, the acquiring
 corporation has control of such other corporation (whether or
 not such acquiring corporation had control immediately before
 the acquisition) ;
     (3) The acquisition by one corporation, in exchange solely
 for all or a part of its voting stock (or in exchange solely for
 all or a part of the voting stock of a corporation which is in
 control of the acquiring corporation), of substantially all of
 the properties of another corporation, but in determining
 whether the exchange is solely for stock the assumption by the
 acquiring corporation of a liability of the other, or the fact
 that property acquired is subject to a liability, shall be disre-
 garded ;
 3272               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Ch. 1606

      (4) A transfer by a corporation of all or a part of its
  assets to another corporation if immediately after the transfer
   the transferor, or one or more of its shareholders (including
   persons who were shareholders immediately before the trans-
  fer), or any combination thereof, is in control of the corpora-
   tion to which the assets are transferred; but only if, in pur-
   suance of the plan, stock or securities of the corporation to
  which the assets are transferred are distributed in a transac-
  tion which qualifies under Sections 17432 to 17439, inclusive;
       (5) A recapitalization; or
      (6) A mere change in identity, form, or place of organiza-
  tion, however effected.
      (b) (1) If a transaction is described in both paragraph (3)
  and paragraph (4) of subdivision (a), then, for purposes of
  this chapter, such transactions shall be treated as described
  only in paragraph (4) of subdivision (a).
      (2) I f -
         (A) One corporation acquires substantially all of the
      properties of another corporation,
         (B) The acquisition would qualify under paragraph (3)
      of subdivision (a) but for the fact that the acquiring corpo-
     ration exchanges money or other property in addition to
     voting stock, and
         (C) The acquiring corporation acquires, solely for voting
     stock described in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), prop-
     erty of the other corporation having a fair market value
     which is at least 80 percent of the fair market value of all of
     the property of the other corporation,
 then such acquisition shall (subject to paragraph (1) of this
 subdivision) be treated as qualifying under paragraph (3)
 of subdivision (a). Solely for the purpose of determining
 whether subparagraph (C) of the preceding sentence applies,
 the amount of any liability assumed by the acquiring corpora-
 tion, and the amount of any liability to which any property
 acquired by the acquiring corporation is subject, shall be
 treated as money paid for the property.
     (3) A transaction otherwise qualifying under paragraph
 (1), paragraph (2) or paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) shall
not be disqualified by reason of the fact that part or all of the
assets which were acquired in the transaction are transferred
to a corporation controlled by the corporation acquiring such
assets.
     (4) The acquisition by one corporation, in exchange for
stock of a corporation (referred to in this paragraph as "con-
trolling corporation") which is in control of the acquiring cor-
poration, of substantially all of the properties of another cor-
poration which in the transaction is merged into the acquiring
corporation shall not disqualify a transaction under paragraph
 (1) of subdivision (a), if—
     (A) Such transaction would have qualified under paragraph
 (1) of subdivision (a) if the merger had been into the con-
trolling corporation, and
                    1969
Ch. 1606]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3273

    (B) No stock of the acquiring corporation is used in the
transaction.
   SEC. 3. Section 17462 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
    17462. For purposes of this article, the term ' ' a party to a
reorganization" includes—
    (a) A corporation resulting from a reorganization, and
    (b) Both corporations, in the case of a reorganization re-
sulting from the acquisition by one corporation of stock or
properties of another.
   In the case of a reorganization qualifying under paragraph
 (2) or paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 17461, if
the stock exchanged for the stock or properties is stock of a
corporation which is in control of the acquiring corporation,
the term " a party to reorganization" includes the corporation
so controlling the acquiring corporation. In the case of a re-
organization qualifying under paragraph (1), paragraph (2)
or paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 17461 by
reason of paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of Section 17461,
the term " a party to a reorganization" includes the corpora-
tion controlling the corporation to which the acquired assets
or stock are transferred. In the case of a reorganization quali-
fying under paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) by reason of
paragraph (4) of subdivision (b) of Section 17461, the term
" a party to a reorganization" includes the controlling corpo-
ration referred to in such subdivision (b) (4).
   SEC. 4. Section 17535 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
    17535. (a) For purposes of this article, the term "issuing
or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which Section
17535(a) applies" means a substitution of a new option for
the old option, or an assumption of the old option, by an
employer corporation, or a parent or subsidiary of such cor-
poration, by reason of a corporate merger, consolidation, ac-
quisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization, or
liquidation, if—
       (1) The excess of the aggregate fair market value of the
    shares subject to the option immediately after the substitu-
    tion or assumption over the aggregate option price of such
    shares is not more than the excess of the aggregate fair
    market value of all shares subject to the option immediately
    before such substitution or assumption over the aggregate
    option price of such shares, and
       (2) The new option or the assumption of the old option
    does not give the employee additional benefits which he did
    not have under the old option.
For purposes of this subdivision, the parent-subsidiary rela-
 tionship shall be determined at the time of any such trans-
 action under the subdivision.
     (b) For purposes of this article, if stock is received by an
 individual in a distribution to which Sections 17335, 17336.
 3274               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ C h . 1606

  17432 to 17439 inclusive, or 18102 (or so much of Section
  18081 as relates to Section 18102) apply, and such distribution
 was made with respect to stock transferred to him upon his
  exercise of the option, such stock shall be considered as having
 been transferred to him on his exercise of such option. A simi-
 lar rule shall be applied in the case of a series of such dis-
 tributions.
       (c) (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), for purposes
 of this article, the term "disposition" includes a sale, ex-
 change, gift, or a transfer of legal title, but does not include—
       (A) A transfer from a decedent to an estate or a transfer
 by bequest or inheritance;
      (B) An exchange to Sections 17432 to 17439 inclusive, or
 18102 (or so much of Section 18081 as relates to Section
 18102) apply; or
       (C) A mere pledge or hypothecation.
      (2) The acquisition of a share of stock in the name of the
 employee and another jointly with the right of survivorship
 or a subsequent transfer of a share of stock into such joint
 ownership shall not be deemed a disposition, but a termina-
 tion of such joint tenancy (except to the extent such employee
 acquires ownership of such stock) shall be treated as a dispo-
 sition by him occurring at the time such joint tenancy is
 terminated.
      (d) For purposes of this article, in applying the percent-
 age limitations of Sections 17532(b)(7), 17533(b)(3), and
 17534(b)(3)—
      (1) The individual with respect to whom such limitation is
 being determined shall be considered as owning the stock
 owned, directly or indirectly, by or for his brothers and sisters
 (whether by the whole or half blood), spouse, ancestors, and
lineal descendants; and
     (2) Stock owned, directly or indirectly, by or for a corpo-
ration, partnership, estate, or trust, shall be considered as
being owned proportionately by or for its shareholders, part-
ners, or beneficiaries.
     (e) For purposes of this article, the term " p a r e n t corpo-
r a t i o n " means any corporation (other than the employer
corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending
with the employer corporation if, at the time of the granting
of the option, each of the corporations other than the employer
corporation owns stock possessing 50 percent or more of the
total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of
the other corporations in such chain.
    (f) For purposes of this article, the term "subsidiary cor-
poration" means any corporation (other than the employer
corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning
with the employer corporation if, at the time of the granting
of the option, each of the corporations other than the last
corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50
                     1969
 Ch. 1606]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3275

  percent or more of the total combined voting power of all
 classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
     (g) In applying subdivisions (e) and (f) for purposes of
 Sections 17532(a) (2), 17533(a) (2), and 17534(a) (2), there
 shall be substituted for the term "employer corporation"
 wherever it appears in subdivisions (e) and (f) the term
 "grantor corporation," or the term "corporation issuing or
 assuming a stock option in a transaction to which Section
 17535(a) applies," as the case may be.
     (h) (1) For purposes of this article, if the terms of any
 option to purchase stock are modified, extended, or renewed,
 such modification, extension, or renewal shall be considered
 as the granting of a new option.
     (2) (A) In the case of the transfer of stock pursuant to the
 exercise of an option to which Section 17533 or 17534 applies
 and which has been so modified, extended, or renewed, then,
 except as provided in subparagraph (B), the fair market value
 of such stock at the time of the granting of such option shall
 be considered as whichever of the following is the highest:
    (i) The fair market value of such stock on the date of the
original granting of the option,
    (ii) The fair market value of such stock on the date of the
making of such modification, extension, or renewal, or
    (iii) The fair market value of such stock at the time of the
making of any intervening modification, extension, or renewal.
    (B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to a
modification, extension, or renewal of a restricted stock option
 before January 1, 1964 (or after December 31, 1963, if made
pursuant to a binding written contract entered into before
January 1, 1964), if the aggregate of the monthly average fair
market values of the stock subject to the option for the 12
consecutive calendar months before the date of the modifi-
cation, extension, or renewal, divided by 12, is an amount less
than 80 percent of the fair market value of such stock on the
date of the original granting of the option or the date of the
making of any intervening modification, extension, or renewal,
whichever is the highest.
    (3) The term "modification" means any change in the terms
of the option which gives the employee additional benefits
under the option, but such term shall not include a change
in the terms of the option—
       (A) Attributable to the issuance or assumption of an
   option under subdivision (a) ;
       (B) To permit the option to qualify under Sections 17532
    (b) (6), 17533(b) (9), and 17534(b) (2) ; or
       (C) In the ease of an option not immediately exercisable
   in full, to accelerate the time at which the option may be
   exercised.
If a restricted stock option is exercisable after the expiration
of 10 years from the date such option is granted, subparagraph
(B) shall not apply unless the terms of the option are also
3276              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              m j 1 > JgQg

changed to make it not exercisable after the expiration of such
period.
   (i) For purposes of this article, if the grant of an option
is subject to approval by stockholders, the date of grant of
the option shall be determined as if the option had not been
subject to such approval.
   SEC. 5. Section 18211 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   18211. (a) (1) Except as otherwise provided in this sec-
tion, if Section 18211 property is disposed of during a taxable
year beginning after December 31, 1962, the amount by which
the lower of—
      (A) The recomputed basis of the property, or
      (B) (i) In the case of a sale, exchange, or involuntary
   conversion, the amount realized, or
      (ii) In the case of any other disposition, the fair market
   value of such property,
exceeds the adjusted basis of such property shall be treated as
gain from the sale or exchange of property which is neither a
capital asset nor property described in Sections 18181 and
18182. Such gain shall be recognized notwithstanding any other
provision of this part.
   (2) For purposes of this section, the term 'recomputed
basis' means, with respect to any property, its adjusted basis
recomputed by adding thereto all adjustments, attributable to
periods after December 31, 1961, reflected in such adjusted
basis on account of deductions (whether in respect of the same
or other property) allowed or allowable to the taxpayer or to
any other person for depreciation, or for amortization under
Section 17212. For purposes of the preceding sentence, if the
taxpayer can establish by adequate records or other sufficient
evidence that the amount allowed for depreciation, or for
amortization under Section 17212, for any period was less than
the amount allowable, the amount added for such period shall
be the amount allowed.
   (3) For purposes of this section, the term 'Section 18211
property' means any property (other than livestock) which is
or has been property of a character subject to the allowance
for depreciation provided in Sections 17208 to 17211.5, in-
clusive, and is either—
   (A) Personal property, or
   (B) Other property (not including a building or its struc-
tural components) but only if such other property is tangible
and has an adjusted basis in which there are reflected adjust-
ments described in paragraph (2) for a period in which such
property (or other property)—
   (i) "Was used as an integral part of manufacturing, pro-
duction, or extraction or of furnishing transportation, com-
munications, electrical energy, gas, water, or sewage disposal
services, or
                     1969
Ch 16061                    REGULAR SESSION                  3277

    (ii) Constituted research or storage facilities used in con-
nection with any of the activities referred to in clause (i).
    (b) (1) Subdivision (a) shall not apply to a disposition by
gift.
    (2) Except as provided in Sections 17831 to 17837, inclu-
 sive, (relating to income in respect of a decedent), subdivision
  (a) shall not apply to a transfer at death.
     (3) If the basis of property in the hands of a transferee is
 determined by reference to its basis in the hands of the trans-
 feror by reason of the application of Section 17431, 17481,
 17881, 17891, or Section 24502, 24521, or 24551 of the Bank
 and Corporation Tax Law, then the amount of gain taken into
account by the transferor under subdivision (a) (1) shall not
exceed the amount of gain recognized to the transferor on the
transfer of such property (determined without regard to this
section). This paragraph shall not apply to a disposition to an
organization which is exempt from the tax imposed by this
part.
    (4) If property is disposed of and gain (determined with-
 out regard to this section) is not recognized in whole or in part
under Section 18081 or Sections 18082 to 18090.2, inclusive,
 then the amount of gain taken into account by the transferor
under subdivision (a) (1) shall not exceed the sum of—
    (A) The amotmt of gain recognized on such disposition
 (determined without regard to this section), plus
    (B) The fair market value of property acquired which is
not Section 18211 property and which is not taken into account
under subparagraph ( A ) .
    (5) Under regulations prescribed by the Franchise Tax
Board, rules consistent with paragraphs (3) and (4) of this
subdivision shall apply in the case of transactions described in
Section 18121 (relating to gain from sale or exchange to ef-
fectuate policies of FCC) or Sections 18131 to 18134, inclu-
sive, (relating to exchanges in obedience to SEC orders).
    (6) (A) For purposes of this section, the basis of Section
18211 property distributed by a partnership to a partner shall
be deemed to be determined by reference to the adjusted basis
of such property to the partnership.
    (B) In the case of any property described in subparagraph
 (A), for purposes of computing the recomputed basis of such
property the amount of the adjustments added back for peri-
ods before the distribution by the partnership shall be—
    (i) The amount of the gain to which subdivision (a) would
have applied if such property had been sold by the partnership
immediately before the distribution at its fair market value at
such time, reduced by
    (ii) The amount of such gain to which Section 17912 ap-
plied.
    (c) The Franchise Tax Board shall prescribe such regula-
tions as it may deem necessary to provide for adjustments to
3278              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQJ^ J 6 0 6

the basis of property to reflect gain recognized under subdivi-
sion (a).
   (d) This section shall apply notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of this part.
   SEC. 6. Section 23737 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read :
   23737. In the case of any organization described in Section
23701d to which this article is applicable, exemption under
Article 1 (commencing with Section 23701) shall be denied for
the income year if the amounts accumulated out of income
during the income year or any prior income year and not
actually paid out by the end of the income year—
    (a) Are unreasonable in amount or duration in order to
carry out the charitable, educational, or other purpose or func-
tion constituting the basis for such organization's exemption
under Section 23701d; or
    (b) Are used to a substantial degree for purposes or func-
tions other than those constituting the basis for such organi-
zation 's exemption under Section 23701d, or
    (c) Are invested in such a manner as to jeopardize the
carrying out of the charitable, educational, or other purpose
or function constituting the basis for such organization's
exemption under Section 23701d.
   SEC. 7. Section 24307 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
    24307. (a) No amount shall be included in gross income
by reason of the discharge, in whole or in part, within the in-
come year, of any indebtedness for which the taxpayer is
liable, or subject to which the taxpayer holds property, if—
    (1) The indebtedness was incurred or assumed by the tax-
payer ; and
    (2) Such taxpayer makes and files a consent to the regula-
tions prescribed under Section 24918 (relating to adjustment
 of basis) then in effect at such time and in such manner as the
Franchise Tax Board by regulations prescribes.
    In such case, the amount of any income of such taxpayer
 attributable to any unamortized premium (computed as of the
first day of the income year in which such discharge occurred)
with respect to such indebtedness shall not be included in
 gross income, and the amount of the deduction attributable
to any unamortized discount (computed as of the first day of
 the income year in which such discharge occurred) with
respect to such indebtedness shall not be allowed as a deduc-
tion.
    (b) No amount shall be included in gross income by reason
of the discharge, cancellation, or modification, in whole or in
part, within the income year, of any indebtedness of a railroad
corporation, as defined in Section 77 (m) of the Bankruptcy
Act (11 U.S.C. 205 ( m ) ) , if such discharge, cancellation, or
modification is effected pursuant to an order of a court in a
receivership proceeding or in a proceeding under Section 77
                    1969
Ch. 1606]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3279

of the Bankruptcy Act commenced before January 1, 1961. In
such cases, the amount of any income of the taxpayer attrib-
utable to any unamortized premium (computed as of the first
day of the income year in which such discharge occurred) with
respect to such indebtedness shall not be included in gross
income, and the amount of the deduction attributable to any
unamortized discount (computed as of the first day of the
income year in which such discharge occurred) with respect
to such indebtedness shall not be allowed as a deduction. Sub-
division (a) of this section shall not apply with respect to any
discharge of indebtedness to which this subdivision applies.
   SEC. 8. Section 24541 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   24541. (a) In the case of an exchange to which Section
24521, 24531, 24532, 24533, 24535, 24551, or 24572 applies—
   (1) The basis of the property permitted to be received under
such section without the recognition of gain or loss shall be the
same as that of the property exchanged—
   (A) Decreased by—
   (i) The fair market value of any other property (except
money) received by the bank or corporation;
   (ii) The amount of any money received by the bank or cor-
poration ; and
   (iii) The amount of loss to the bank or corporation which
was recognized on such exchange, and
   (B) Increased by—
   (i) The amount which was treated as a dividend; and
   (ii) The amount of gain to the bank or corporation which
was recognized on such exchange (not including any portion of
such gain which was treated as a dividend).
   (2) The basis of any other property (except money) re-
ceived by the bank or corporation shall be its fair market value.
   (b) (1) Under regulations prescribed by the Franchise Tax
Board, the basis determined under subsection (a) (1) shall be
allocated among the properties permitted to be received with-
out the recognition of gain or loss.
   (2) I n the case of an exchange to which Sections 24532 and
24533 (or so much of Section 24535 as relates to Section 24533)
apply, then in making the allocation under paragraph (1) of
this subsection, there shall be taken into account not only the
property so permitted to be received without the recognition
of gain or loss, but also the stock or securities (if any) of the
distributing bank or corporation which are retained, and the
allocation of basis shall be made among all such properties.
   (c) For purposes of this section, a distribution to which
Section 24533 (or so much of Section 24535 as relates to Sec-
tions 24532 and 24533) applies shall be treated as an exchange,
and for such purposes the stock and securities of the distribut-
ing bank or corporation which are retained shall be treated as
surrendered, and received back, in the exchange.
   (d) Where, as part of the consideration to the bank or
corporation, another party to the exchange assumed a liability
          •


3280               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               j"Cn_ 1606

  of the bank or corporation or acquired from the bank or cor-
 poration property subject to a liability, such assumption or ac-
 quisition (in the amount of the liability) shall, for purposes
 of this section, be treated as money received by the bank or
 corporation on the exchange.
     (e) This section shall not apply to property acquired by a
 bank or corporation by the exchange of its stock or securities
  (or the stock or securities of a corporation which is in control
 of the acquiring corporation) as consideration in whole or in
 part for the transfer of the property to it.
    SEC. 9. Section 24553 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code is
 amended to read:
    24553. If property was acquired by a corporation in con-
 nection with a reorganization to which this chapter applies,
 then the basis shall be the same as it would be in the hands
 of the transferor, increased in the amount of gain recognized
 to the transferor on such transfer. This section shall not apply
 if the property acquired consists of stock or securities in a
 corporation a party to the reorganization, unless acquired by
 the exchange of stock or securities of the transferee (or of a
 corporation which is in control of the transferee) as the con-
 sideration in whole or in part for the transfer.
    SEC. 10. Section 24562 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
 is amended to read:
    24562. (a) For purposes of Chapters 8 and 9 and this
 chapter, the term "reorganization" means—
    (1) A statutory merger or consolidation;
    (2) The acquisition by one corporation, in exchange solely
for all or a part of its voting stock (or in exchange solely for
all or a part of the voting stock of a corporation which is in
control of the acquiring corporation), of stock of another cor-
poration if, immediately after the acquisition, the acquiring
corporation has eontrol of such other corporation (whether or
not such acquiring corporation had control immediately before
the acquisition);
    (3) The acquisition by one corporation, in exchange solely
for all or a part of its voting stock (or in exchange solely for
all or a part of the voting stock of a corporation which is in
control of the acquiring corporation), of substantially all of
the properties of another corporation, but in determining
whether the exchange is solely for stock the assumption by the
acquiring corporation of a liability of the other, or the fact
that property acquired is subject to a liability, shall be dis-
regarded ;
    (4) A transfer by a corporation of all or a part of its assets
to another corporation if immediately after the transfer the
transferor, or one or more of its shareholders (including per-
sons who were shareholders immediately before the transfer),
or any combination thereof, is in control of the corporation to
which the assets are transferred; but only if, in pursuance of
the plan, stock or securities of the corporation to which the
                    1D69
Ch. 1606]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3281

assets are transferred are distributed in a transaction which
qualifies under Section 24531, 24533, or 24535;
   (5) A recapitalization; or
   (6) A mere change in identity, form, or place of organiza-
tion, however effected.
    (b) (1) If a transaction is described in both paragraph (3)
and paragraph (4) of subdivision (a), then, for purposes of
this chapter, such transaction shall be treated as described only
in paragraph (4) of subdivision (a).
   (2) I f -
      (A) One corporation acquires substantially all of the
   properties of another corporation;
      (B) The acquisition would qualify under subdivision
   (a) (3) but for the fact that the acquiring corporation ex-
   changes money or other property in addition to voting
   stock; and
      (C) The acquiring corporation acquires, solely for voting
   stock described in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), prop-
   erty of the other corporation having a fair market value
   which is at least 80 percent of the fair market value of all
   of the property of the other corporation;
then such acquisition shall (subject to paragraph (1) of this
subdivision) be treated as qualifying under paragraph (3) of
subdivision (a). Solely for the purpose of determining whether
subparagraph (C) of the preceding sentence applies, the
amount of any liability assumed by the acquiring corporation,
and the amount of any liability to which any property acquired
by the acquiring corporation is subject, shall be treated as
money paid for the property.
   (3) A transaction otherwise qualifying under paragraph
 (1), paragraph (2) or paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) shall
not be disqualified by reason of the fact that part or all of the
assets or stock which were acquired in the transaction are
transferred to a corporation controlled by the corporation
acquiring such assets or stock.
   (4) The acquisition by one corporation, in exchange for
stock of a corporation (referred to in this paragraph as "con-
trolling corporation") which is in control of the acquiring
corporation, of substantially all of the properties of another
corporation which in the transaction is merged into the acquir-
ing corporation shall not disqualify a transaction under
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), if—
    (A) Such transaction would, have qualified under paragraph
 (1) of subdivision (a) if the merger had been into the con-
trolling corporation, and
   (B) No stock of the acquiring corporation is used in the
transaction.
   SEC. 11. Section 24563 of the Kevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   24563. For purposes of this article, the term " a party to
a reorganization" includes—
3282               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [ Qh. 1607

   (a) A corporation resulting from a reorganization; and
   (b) Both corporations, in the case of a reorganization re-
sulting from the acquisition by one corporation of stock or
properties of another.
   In the case of a reorganization qualifying under paragraph
 (2) or paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 24562, if
the stock exchanged for the stock or properties is stock of a
corporation which is in control of the acquiring corporation,
the term " a party to a reorganization" includes the corpora-
tion so controlling the acquiring corporation. In the case of a
reorganization qualifying under paragraph (1), paragraph
 (2) or paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 24562 by
reason of paragraph (3) of subdivision (b) of Section 24562,
the term " a party to a reorganization" includes the corpora-
tion controlling the corporation to which the acquired assets or
stock are transferred.
   In the case of a reorganization qualifying under paragraph
 (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 24562 by reason of para-
graph (4) of subdivision (b) of Section 24562, the term " a
party to a reorganization" includes the controlling corpora-
tion referred to in such paragraph (4) of subdivision (b) of
Section 24562.
   SEC. 12. The provisions of this act effecting changes in
the Personal Income Tax Law shall be applied in the compu-
tation of taxes for taxable years beginning on and after Janu-
ary 1, 1969.
   SEC. 13. The provisions of this act effecting changes in the
Bank and Corporation Law shall be applied in the computa-
tion of taxes for income years beginning on or after January
1, 1969.

                        CHAPTER 1607
An act to amend Sections 17053, 17072, 17132, 17138, 17501,
  17503, 17511, 17513, and 17515 of, and to add Sections
  17112.5, 17112.7, 17502.2, 17502.3, 17502.4, 17502.5, 17502.6,
  17502.7, 17502.8, 17520.4, 17520.6, 17524, 17525, 17526,
  17529,17641, and 19267 to, the Revenue and Taxation Code,
  relating to self-employed individuals' retirement funds.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION 1. Section 17053 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
  17053. (a) In the case of an individual who has received
earned income before the beginning of the taxable year, there
shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this
part for the taxable year an amount equal to the amount re-
ceived by such individual as retirement income (as defined in
                    1969
Ch. 1607]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3283

subdivision (c) and as limited by subdivision ( d ) ) , multiplied
by the rate provided in Section 17041 for the first two thou-
sand dollars ($2,000) of taxable income; but the credit pro-
vided by this section shall not exceed the tax imposed under
this part reduced by the credit allowable under Chapter 12
 (relating to taxes paid to other states) and the credit allow-
able under Section 17054 (relating to credits for personal ex-
emptions).
    (b) For purposes of subdivision (a), an individual shall
be considered to have received earned income if he has re-
ceived, in each of any 10 calendar years before the taxable
year, earned income, as defined in subdivision (g), in excess
of six hundred dollars ($600). A widow or widower whose
spouse had received such earned income shall be considered
to have received earned income.
   (c) For purposes of subdivision (a), the term "retirement
income" means—
    (1) In the case of an individual who has attained the age of
65 before the close of the taxable year, income from—
   (A) Pensions and annuities, (including, in the case of an
individual who is, or has been, an employee within the mean-
ing of Section 17502.2(a), distributions by a trust described
in Section 17501 which is exempt from tax under Section
17631),
   (B) Interest,
   (C) Rents,
   (D) Dividends, and
   (B) Bonds described in Section 17526(b) which are re-
ceived under a qualified bond purchase plan described in Sec-
tion 17526(a) or in a distribution from a trust described
in Section 17501 which is exempt from tax under Section
17631, or
   (2) In the case of an individual who has not attained the
age of 65 before the close of the taxable year, income from
pensions and annuities under a public retirement system (as
defined in subdivision (f)), to the extent included in gross
income without reference to this section, but only to the extent
such income does not represent compensation for personal
services rendered during the taxable year.
    (d) For purposes of subdivision (a), the amount of retire-
ment income shall not exceed one thousand five hundred
twenty-four dollars ($1,524) less—
    (1) In the case of any individual, any amount received by
the individual as a pension or annuity—
    (A) Under Title I I of the Social Security Act,
    (B) Under the Railroad Retirement Acts of 1935 or 1937, or
    (C) Otherwise excluded from gross income, and
    (2) In the case of any individual who has not attained the
 age of 72 before the close of the taxable year—
    (A) If such individual has not attained age 62 before the
close of the taxable year, any amount of earned income (as
3284               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                TQJ^ JgQ7

 defined in subdivision (g)) in excess of nine hundred dollars
 ($900) received by the individual in the taxable year—
    (B) If such individual has attained age 62 before the close
 of the taxable year, the sum of (i) one-half the amount of
 earned income received by such individual in the taxable year
in excess of one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200) but not
 in excess of one thousand seven hundred dollars ($1,700), and
 (ii) the amount of earned income so received in excess of one
 thousand seven hundred dollars ($1,700).
    (e) Subdivision (d) (1) shall not apply to any amount
 excluded from gross income under Sections 17101 to 17108,
inclusive (relating to annuities), 17131 to 17135, inclusive (re-
lating to life insurance proceeds), 17138 (relating to compen-
sation for injuries or sickness), 17139 (relating to amounts re-
 ceived under accident and health plans), 17503 to 17507,
inclusive, (relating to taxability of beneficiary of employees'
trust), or 17511 and 17512 (relating to taxation of employee
annuities).
     (f) For purposes of subdivision ( c ) ( 2 ) , the term "public
retirement system" means a pension, annuity, retirement, or
similar fund or system established by the United States, a
 state, a territory, a possession of the United States, any po-
litical subdivision of any of the foregoing, or the District of
 Columbia.
    (g) For purposes of subdivision (b) and (d)(2), the term
"earned income" has the meaning assigned to such term in
 Section 911(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, except
that such term does not include any amount received as a pen-
sion or annuity.
    (h) (1) A husband and wife who make a joint return for
the taxable year and both of whom have attained the age of 65
before the close of the taxable year may elect (at such time and
in such manner as the Franchise Tax Board by regulations
prescribes) to determine the amount of the credit allowed by
subdivision (a) by applying the provisions of paragraph (2).
    (2) If an election is made under paragraph (1) for the tax-
able year, for purposes of subdivision (a)—
    (A) If either spouse is an individual who has received
earned income within the meaning of subdivision (b), the other
spouse shall be considered to be an individual who has re-
ceived earned income within the meaning of such subdivision;
and
    (B) Subdivision (d) shall be considered as providing that
the amount of the combined retirement income of both spouses
shall not exceed two thousand two hundred eighty-six dollars
 ($2,286), less the sum of the amounts specified in paragraphs
(1) and (2) of subdivision (d) for each spouse.
    (i) No credit shall be allowed under subdivision (a) to any
nonresident.
   SEC. 2. Section 17072 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
                     1969
 Ch. 16071                  REGULAR SESSION                 3285

     17072. For purposes of this part, the term "adjusted gross
  income" means, in the case of an individual, gross income
 minus the following deductions:
     (a) The deductions allowed by this part (other than by
 Article 7 of this chapter) which are attributable to a trade or
 business carried on by the taxpayer, if such trade or business
  does not consist of the performance of services by the taxpayer
  as an employee.
     (b) (1) The deductions allowed by Article 6 (Section 17201
 and following) which consist of expenses paid or incurred by
 the taxpayer, in connection with the performance by him of
 services as an employee, under a reimbursement or other ex-
 pense allowance arrangement with his employer.
     (2) The deductions allowed by Article 6 (Section 17201 and
 following) which consist of expenses of travel, meals, and
 lodging while away from home, paid or incurred by the tax-
 payer in connection with the performance by him of services
 as an employee.
    (3) The deductions allowed by Article 6 (commencing with
 Section 17201) of Chapter 3 of this part which consist of
 expenses of transportation paid or incurred by the taxpayer
 in connection with the performance by him of services as an
 employee.
    (4) The deductions allowed by Article 6 (commencing with
 Section 17201) of Chapter 3 of this p a r t which are attrib-
utable to a trade or business carried on by the taxpayer, if
such trade or business consists of the performance of services
by the taxpayer as an employee and if such trade or business
is to solicit, away from the employer's place of business, busi-
ness for the employer.
    (c) The deduction allowed by Section 18151.
    (d) The deductions allowed by Article 6 (commencing with
Section 17201) of Chapter 3 of this part as losses from the
sale or exchange of property.
    (e) The deductions allowed by Article 6 (commencing with
Section 17201) of Chapter 3 of this part, by Section 17252
 (relating to expenses for production of income), and by Section
17681 (relating to depletion) which are attributable to prop-
erty held for the production of rents or royalties.
    (f) In the case of a life tenant of property, or an income
beneficiary of property held in trust, or an heir, legatee, or
devisee of an estate, the deduction for depreciation allowed
by Sections 17208 to 17212, inclusive, and the deduction al-
lowed by Section 17681. Nothing in this section shall permit
the same item to be deducted more than once.
    (g) In the case of an individual who is an employee within
the meaning of Section 17502.2(a), the deductions allowed by
Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, and Section 17526(c) to
the extent attributable to contributions made on behalf of
such individual.
3286              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             rQj   JgQ7

    (h) The deduction allowed by Section 17266.
   SEC. 2.2. Section 17112.5 is added to the Bevenue and
 Taxation Code, to read :
   17112.5. (a) Any amounts received under an annuity, en-
 dowment, or life insurance contract before the annuity start-
 ing date which are not received as an annuity (within the
 meaning of Section 17105) shall be included in the recipient's
 gross income for the taxable year in which received to the
extent that—•
      (1) Such amounts, plus all amounts theretofore received
   under the contract and includible in gross income under this
   subdivision, do not exceed—
      (2) The aggregate premiums or other consideration paid
   for the contract while the employee was an owner-employee
   which were allowed as deductions under Sections 17513 to
   17525, inclusive, for the taxable year and all prior taxable
   years.
Any such amounts so received which are not includible in
gross income under this subdivision shall be subject to the
provisions of Section 17105.
    (b) In computing—
      (1) The aggregate amount of premiums or other con-
   sideration paid for the contract for purposes of Section
   17103(a)(1) (relating to the investment in the contract),
      (2) The consideration for the contract contributed by the
   employee for purposes of Section 17104(a) (relating to em-
   ployee's contributions recoverable in three years), and
      (3) The aggregate premiums or other consideration paid
   for purposes of Section 17105 (relating to certain amounts
   not received as an annuity),
any amount allowed as a deduction with respect to the con-
tract under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, which was paid
while the employee was an employee within the meaning of
Section 17502.2(a) shall be treated as consideration contrib-
uted by the employer, and there shall not be taken into ac-
count any portion of the premiums or other consideration for
the contract paid while the employee was an owner-employee
which is properly allocable (as determined under regulations
prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board) to the cost of life,
accident, health, or other insurance.
   (c) (1) This subdivision shall apply to any life insurance
contract—
   (A) Purchased as a part of a plan described in Section
17511, or
   (B) Purchased by a trust described in Section 17501 which
is exempt from tax under Section 17631 if the proceeds of
such contract are payable directly or indirectly to a partic-
ipant in such trust or to a beneficiary of such participant.
   (2) Any contribution to plan described in Paragraph (1)
 (A) or a trust described in Paragraph (1)(B) which is al-
lowed as a deduction under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive,
                    1969
Ch. 1607]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3£87

 which is determined in accordance with regulations prescribed
 by the Franchise Tax Board to have been applied to purchase
 the life insurance protection under a contract described in
 Paragraph (1), is includible in the gross income of the partic-
 ipant for the taxable year when so applied.
    (3) In the case of the death of an individual insured under
 a contract described in Paragraph (1), an amount equal to the
 cash surrender value of the contract immediately before the
 death of the insured shall be treated as a payment under
 such plan or a distribution by such trust, and the excess of
 the amount payable by reason of the death of the insured
 over such cash surrender value shall not be includible in gross
income under this chapter and shall be treated as provided in
 Section 17132.
    (d) (1) If during any taxable year an owner-employee
assigns (or agrees to assign) or pledges (or agrees to pledge)
any portion of his interest in a trust described in Section
17501 which is exempt from tax under Section 17631 or any
portion of the value of a contract purchased as part of a plan
described in Section 17511, such portion shall be treated as
having been received by such owner-employee as a distribu-
tion from such trust or as an amount received under the
contract.
   (2) If during any taxable year, an owner-employee receives,
directly or indirectly, any amount from any insurance com-
pany as a loan under a contract purchased by a trust de-
scribed in Section 17501 which is exempt from tax under Sec-
tion 17631 or purchased as part of a plan described in Section
17511, and issued by such insurance company, such amount
shall be treated as an amount received under the contract.
   (e) (1) This subdivision shall apply—
   (A) To amounts (other than any amount received by an
individual in his capacity as a policyholder of an annuity, en-
dowment, or life insurance contract which is in the nature
of a dividend or similar distribution) which are received from
a qualified trust described in Section 17501 or under a plan
described in Section 17511 and which are received by an in-
dividual, who is, or has been, an owner-employee, before such
individual attains the age of 594 years, for any reason other
than the individual's becoming disabled (within the meaning
of subdivision (g) of this section), but only to the extent that
such amounts are attributable to contributions paid on behalf
of such individual (whether or not paid by him) while he
was an owner-employee,
   (B) To amounts which are received from a qualified trust
described in Section 17501 or under a plan described in Sec-
tion 17511 at any time by an individual who is, or has been,
an owner-employee, or by the successor of such individual,
but only to the extent that such amounts are determined, un-
der regulations prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board, to
3288              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              fQh, 1607

exceed the benefits provided for such individual under the
plan formula, and
    (C) To amounts which are received, by an individual who
is, or has been, an owner-employee, by reason of the distribu-
tion under the provisions of Section 17502.4(b) (5) of his en-
tire interest in all qualified trusts described in Section 17501
and in all plans described in Section 17511.
    (2) (A) If the aggregate of the amounts to which this sub-
division applies received by any person in his taxable year
equals or execeeds two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500),
the increase in his tax for the taxable year in which such
amounts are received and attributable to such amounts shall
not be less than 110 percent of the aggregate increase in taxes,
for the taxable year and the four immediately preceding tax-
able years, which would have resulted if such amounts had
been included in such person's gross income ratably over such
taxable years.
    (B) If deductions have been allowed under Sections 17513
to 17525, inclusive, for contributions paid on behalf of the in-
dividual while he is an owner-employee for a number of prior
taxable years less than four, subparagraph (A) shall be ap-
plied by taking into account a number of taxable years imme-
diately preceding the taxable year in which the amount was
so received equal to such lesser number.
    (3) If paragraph (2) does not apply to a person for the
taxable year, the increase in tax of such person for the taxable
year attributable to the amounts to which this paragraph
applies shall be 110 percent of such increase (computed with-
out regard to this paragraph).
   (4) Paragraph (1)(B) of this subdivision shall not apply
to any amount to which Section 17503 or 17511 applies.
   (5) For special rules for computation of taxable income
for taxable years to which this subdivision applies, see Section
17112.7.
   (f) For purposes of this section, the term "owner-em-
ployee" has the meaning assigned to it by Section 17502.2(c).
   (g) For purposes of this chapter, an individual shall be
considered to be disabled if he is unable to engage in any sub-
stantial gainful activity by reason of any medically deter-
minable physical or mental impairment which can be expected
to result in death or to be of long-continued and indefinite
duration. An individual shall not be considered to be disabled
unless he furnishes proof of the existence thereof in such form
and manner as the Franchise Tax Board may require.
   SEC. 2.4. Section 17112.7 is added to the Revenue and
Taxation Code, to read:
   17112.7. (a)(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph
 (3), this section shall apply to amounts distributed to a dis-
tributee, in the case of an employees' trust described in Sec-
tion 17501 which is exempt from tax under Section 17631,
if the total distributions payable to the distributee with re-
                    1969
Ch. 1607]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3289

spect to an employee are paid to the distributee within one
taxable year of the distributee—
       (A) On account of the employee's death,
       (B) After the employee has attained the age of 59^
   years, or
       (C) After the employee has become disabled (within the
   meaning of Section 17112.5.
       (2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), this sec-
   tion shall apply to amounts paid to a payee, in the case of
   an annuity plan described in Section 17511, if the total
   amounts payable to the payee with respect to an employee
   are paid to the payee within one taxable year of the payee—
      (A) On account of the employee's death,
      (B) After the employee has attained the age of 59^
   years, or
      (C) After the employee has become disabled (within the
   meaning of Section 17112.5.
      (3) This section shall apply—
       (A) Only with respect to so much of any distribution
   or payment to which (without regard to this paragraph)
   paragraph (1) or (2) applies as is attributable to contribu-
   tions made on behalf of an employee while he was an em-
   ployee within the meaning of Section 17502.2(a), and
      (B) If the recipient is the employee on whose behalf such
   contributions were made, only if contributions which were
   allowed as a deduction under Sections 17513 to 17525, in-
   clusive, have been made on behalf of such employee while
   he was an employee within the meaning of Section
   17502.2(a) for five or more taxable years prior to the tax-
   able year in which the total distributions payable or total
   amounts payable, as the case may be, are paid.
This section shall not apply to amounts described in subpara-
graphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1) of Section 17112.5
(but, in the case of amounts described in subparagraph (B)
of such paragraph, only to the extent that Section 17112.5
applies to such amounts).
    (b) In any case to which this section applies, the tax at-
tributable to the amounts to which this section applies for the
taxable year in which such amounts are received shall not
exceed whichever of the following is the greater:
      (1) Five times the increase in tax which would result
   from the inclusion in gross income of the recipient of 20
   percent of so much of the amount so received as is includ-
   ible in gross income, or
      (2) Five times the increase in tax which would result if
   the taxable income of the recipient for such taxable year
   equaled 20 percent of the amount of the taxable income of
   the recipient for such taxable year determined under subdi-
   vision ( c ) ( 1 ) .
      (c) Notwithstanding Section 17073 (relating to definition
   of taxable income), for purposes only of computing the tax
3290              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              rQ}1_ 1 6 0 7

   under this part attributable to amounts to which this sec-
   tion or Section 17112.5 applies and which are includible in
   gross income—
       (1) The taxable income of the recipient for the taxable
   year of receipt shall be treated as being not less than the
   amount by which (A) the aggregate of such amounts so
   includible in gross income exceeds (B) the amount of the
   credits allowed for such taxable year under Section 17054
    (relating to credits for personal exemptions) ; and
       (2) In making ratable inclusion computations under sub-
   division (e) (2) of Section 17112.5, the taxable income of
   the recipient for each taxable year involved in such ratable
   inclusion shall be treated as being not less than the amount
   required by such subdivision (e)(2) to be treated as includ-
   ible in gross income for such taxable year.
In any case in which the preceding sentence results in an in-
crease in taxable income for any taxable year, the resulting
increase in the taxes imposed by Section 17041 or 17048 for
such taxable year shall not be reduced by any credit under
this part which, but for this sentence, would be allowable.
   SEC. 3. Section 17132 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   17132. (a) Gross income does not include amounts re-
ceived (whether in a single sum or otherwise) by the bene-
ficiaries or the estate of an employee, if such amounts are
paid by or on behalf of an employer and are paid by reason
of the death of the employee.
    (b) (1) The aggregate amounts excludable under subdivi-
sion (a) with respect to the death of any employee shall not
exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000).
    (2) Subdivision (a) shall not apply to amounts with re-
spect to which the employee possessed, immediately before his
death, a nonforfeitable right to receive the amounts while
living.
   This subdivision shall not apply to total distributions pay-
able (as defined in Section 17503(c)(3)) which are paid to a
distributee within one taxable year of the distributee by rea-
son of the employee's death—
    (i) By a stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing trust de-
scribed in Section 17501 which is exempt from tax under Sec-
tion 17631,
    (ii) Under an annuity contract under a plan described in
Section 17511, or
    (iii) Under an annuity contract purchased by an employer
which is an organization referred to in Section 23701d of this
code but only with respect to that portion of such total dis-
tributions payable which bears the same ratio to the amount
of such total distributions payable which is (without regard
to this section) includable in gross income, as the amounts con-
tributed by the employer for such annuity contract which are
excludable from gross income under Section 17512 bear to
                    1969
Ch. 1607]                  REGULAR SESSION                3291

the total amounts contributed by the employer for such annu-
ity contract.
    (3) Subdivision (a) shall not apply to amounts received by
a surviving annuitant under a joint and survivor's annuity
contract after the first day of the first period for which an
amount was received as an annuity by the employee (or would
have been received if the employee had lived).
    (4) In the case of any amount to which Sections 17101 to
17112, inclusive (relating to annuities, etc.), apply, the
amount which is excludable under subdivision (a) (as modi-
fied by this subdivision) shall be determined by reference to
the value of such amount as of the day on which the employee
died. Any amount so excludable under subdivision (a) shall,
for purposes of Sections 17101 to 17112, inclusive, be treated
as additional consideration paid by the employee. Subdivision
 (a) shall not apply in the case of an annuity under Chapter
73 of Title 10 of the United States Code if the individual who
made the election under such chapter died after attaining
retirement age.
   (c) For purposes of this section, the term "employee"
does not include an individual who is an employee within the
meaning of Section 17502.2(a) (relating to self-employed in-
dividuals) .
   SEC. 4. Section 17138 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   17138. (a) Except in the case of amounts attributable to
(and not in excess of) deductions allowed under Sections
17253 to 17258, inclusive (relating to medical, etc., expenses)
for any prior taxable year, gross income does not include—
   (1) Amounts received under workmen's compensation acts
as compensation for personal injuries or sickness;
   (2) The amount of any damages received (whether by suit
or agreement) on account of personal injuries or sickness;
   (3) Amounts received through accident or health insurance
for personal injuries or sickness (other than amounts received
by an amployee, to the extent such amounts (A) are attrib-
utable to contributions by the employer which were not in-
cludable in the gross income of the employee, or (B) are paid
by the employer); and
   (4) Amounts received as a pension, annuity, or similar
allowance for personal injuries or sickness resulting from
active service in the armed forces of any country or in the
Coast and Geodetic Survey or the Public Health Service, or as
a disability annuity payable under the provisions of Section
831 of the Foreign Service Act of 1946, as amended (22 U.S.C.
1081; 60 Stat. 1021).
   For purposes of paragraph (3), in the case of an individual
who is, or has been, an employee within the meaning of Section
17502.2(a) (relating to self-employed individuals), contribu-
tions made on behalf of such individual while he was such an
employee to a trust described in Section 17501 which is exempt
3292                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1607

 from tax under Section 17631, or under a plan described
 in Section 17511, shall, to the extent allowed as deductions
 under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, be treated as contri-
 butions by the employer which were not includable in the
 gross income of the employee.
     (b) (1) For exclusion from employee's gross income of em-
 ployer contributions to accident and health plans, see Section
  17140.
     (2) For exclusion of part of disability retirement pay from
 the application of subdivision (a) (4) of this section, see Sec-
 tion 402(h) of the Career Compensation Act of 1949 (37
 U.S.O. 272(h)).
    SEC. 5. Section 17501 of the Revenue and Taxation Code is
 amended to read:
    17501. A trust created or organized in the "United States
  and forming part of a stock bonus, pension, or profit-sharing
 plan of an employer for the exclusive benefit of his employees
 or their beneficiaries shall constitute a qualified trust under
 this article—
     (a) If contributions are made to the trust by such employer,
 or employees, or both, or by another employer who is entitled
 to deduct his contributions under Section 17516(b) (relating
 to deduction for contributions to profit-sharing and stock
 bonus plan), for the purpose of distributing to such employees
 or their beneficiaries the corpus and income of the fund ac-
 cumulated by the trust in accordance with such plan;
    (b) If under the trust instrument it is impossible, at any
 time prior to the satisfaction of all liabilities with respect to
 employees and their beneficiaries under the trust, for any part
 of the corpus or income to be (within the taxable year or
thereafter) used for, or diverted to, purposes other than for
the exclusive benefit of his employees or their beneficiaries;
    (c) If the trust, or two or more trusts, or the trust or trusts
and annuity plan or plans are designated by the employer as
 constituting parts of a plan intended to qualify under this
section which benefits either—
    (1) Seventy percent or more of all the employees, or 80
percent or more of all the employees who are eligible to ben-
efit under the plan if 70 percent or more of all the employees
are eligible to benefit under the plan, excluding in each case
employees who have been employed not more than a minimum
period prescribed by the plan, not exceeding five years, em-
ployees whose customary employment is for not more than 20
hours in any one week, and employees whose customary em-
ployment is for not more than five months in any calendar
year, or
    (2) Such employees as qualify under a classification set up
by the employer and found by the Franchise Tax Board not
to be discriminatory in favor of employees who are officers,
shareholders, persons whose principal duties consist in super-
                     1969
Ch. 16071                   REGULAR SESSION                  3293

 vising the work of other employees, or highly compensated
employees; and
    (d) If the contributions or benefits provided under the plan
 do not discriminate in favor of employees who are officers,
shareholders, persons whose principal duties consist in super-
vising the work of other employees, or highly compensated
employees.
    (e) A classification shall not be considered discriminatory
within the meaning of subdivision (c) (2) or (d) merely be-
cause it excludes employees the whole of whose remuneration
constitutes " w a g e s " under Section 3121(a)(1) of the Internal
Revenue Code (relating to the Federal Insurance Contribution
Act) or merely because it is limited to salaried or clerical em-
ployees. Neither shall a plan be considered discriminatory
within the meaning of such provisions merely because the con-
tributions or benefits of or on behalf of the employees under
the plan bear a uniform relationship to the total compensation,
or the basic or regular rate of compensation, of such employees,
or merely because the contributions or benefits based on that
part of an employee's remuneration which is excluded from
" w a g e s " by Section 3121(a) (1) of the Internal Revenue Code,
or of the California Unemployment Insurance Act differ from
the contributions or benefits based on employee's remuneration
not so excluded, or differ because of any retirement benefits
created under state or federal law.
   For purposes of this subdivision and subdivision ( j ) , the
total compensation of an individual who is an employee within
the meaning of Section 17502.2(a) means such individual's
earned income (as defined in Section 17502.2(b)), and the
basic or regular rate of compensation of such an individual
shall be determined, under regulations prescribed by the
Franchise Tax Board, with respect to that portion of his
earned income which bears the same ratio to his earned in-
come as the basic or regular compensation of the employees
under the plan bears to the total compensation of such em-
ployees.
   (f) A plan shall be considered as meeting the requirements
of subdivision (c) during the whole of any taxable year of the
plan if on one day in each quarter it satisfied such require-
ments.
   (g) A trust shall not constitute a qualified trust under this
article unless the plan of which such trust is a part provides
that, upon its termination or upon complete discontinuance of
contributions under the plan, the rights of all employees to
benefits accrued to the date of such termination or discontin-
uance, to the extent then funded, or the amounts credited to
the employees' accounts are nonforfeitable. This subdivision
shall not apply to benefits or contributions which, under provi-
sions of the plan adopted pursuant to regulations prescribed
by the Franchise Tax Board to preclude the discrimination
3294              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              mjj   £607

prohibited by subdivision (d), may not be used for designated
employees in the event of early termination of the plan.
   (h) A trust forming part of a pension plan shall not con-
stitute a qualified trust under this article unless the plan
provides that forfeitures must not be applied to increase the
benefits any employee would otherwise receive under the plan.
   (i) In the case of a plan which provides contributions or
benefits for employees some or all of whom are employees
within the meaning of Section 17502.2(a), a trust forming
part of such plan shall not constitute a qualified trust under
this article unless, under the plan, the entire interest of each
employee—
      (1) Either will be distributed to him not later than his
   taxable year in which he attains the age of 70J years, or,
   in the case of an employee other than an owner-employee
   (as defined in Section 17502.2(c)), in which he retires,
   whichever is the later, or
      (2) Will be distributed, commencing not later than such
   taxable year, (A) in accordance with regulations prescribed
   by the Franchise Tax Board, over the life of such employee
   or over the lives of such employee and his spouse, or (B) in
   accordance with such regulations, over a period not extend-
   ing beyond the life expectancy of such employee or the life
   expectancy of such employee and his spouse.
A trust shall not be disqualified under this subdivision by
reason of distributions under a designation, prior to the date
of the enactment of this subdivision, by any employee under
the plan of which such trust is a part, of a method of distribu-
tion which does not meet the terms of the preceding sentence,
   (j) I n the case of a plan which provides contributions or
benefits for employees some or all of whom are owner-em-
ployees (as defined in Section 17502.2(c))—
    (1) Subdivision (c) and the first and second sentences of
subdivision (e) shall not apply, but—
   (A) Such plan shall not be considered discriminatory
within the meaning of subdivision (d) merely because the con-
tributions or benefits of or on behalf of employees under the
plan bear a uniform relationship to the total compensation,
or the basic or regular rate of compensation, of such employ-
ees, and
   (B) Such plan shall not be considered discriminatory within
the meaning of subdivision (d) solely because under the plan
contributions described in Section 17502.4(c)(1) which are in
excess of the amounts which may be deducted under Sections
17513 to 17525, inclusive, for the taxable year may be made
on behalf of any owner-employee ,• and
   (2) A trust forming a part of such plan shall constitute a
qualified trust under this section only if the requirements in
Section 17502.3 are also met.
   SEC. 6. Section 17502.2 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1607]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3295

   17502.2. For purposes of this article—
   (a) The term "employee" includes, for any taxable year,
an individual who has earned income (as defined in subdivi-
sion (b)) for the taxable year. To the extent provided in regu-
lations prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board, such term
also includes, for any taxable year—
   (1) An individual who would be an employee within the
meaning of the preceding sentence but for the fact that the
trade or business carried on by such individual did not have
net profits for the taxable year, and
   (2) An individual who has been an employee within the
meaning of the preceding sentence for any prior taxable
year.
   (b) (1) The term "earned income" means the net earn-
ings from self-employment (as defined in Section 1402(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954), but such net earnings
shall be determined—
       (A) Only with respect to a trade or business in which
   personal services of the taxpayer are a material income-
   producing factor,
       (B) Without regard to paragraphs (4) and (5) of Sec-
   tion 1402(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
       (C) In the case of any individual who is treated as an
   employee under Sections 3121(d)(3)(A), (C), or (D) of
   the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, without regard to para-
   graph (2) of Section 1402(c) of the Internal Revenue Code
   of 1954, and
       (D) "Without regard to items which are not included in
   gross income for purposes of this article, and the deduc-
    tions properly allocable to or chargeable against such items.
 For purposes of this subdivision, Section 1402 of the Internal
 Revenue Code of 1954, as in effect for a taxable year ending
 on December 31, 1967, shall be treated as having been in effect
 for all taxable years ending before such date.
     (2) For purposes of this section, the term "earned income"
 includes gains (other than any gain which is treated under
 any provision of this article as gain from the sale or exchange
 of a capital asset) and net earnings derived from the sale or
 other disposition of, the transfer of any interest in, or the li-
 censing of the use of property (other than goodwill) by an
 individual whose personal efforts created such property.
     (c) The term "owner-employee" means an employee who—
        (1) Owns the entire interest in an unincorporated trade
    or business, or
        (2) In the case of a partnership, is a partner who owns
     more than 10 percent of either the capital interest or the
     profits interest in such partnership.
  To the extent provided in regulations prescribed by the Fran-
 chise Tax Board, such term also means an individual who has
 been an owner-employee within the meaning of the preceding
 sentence.
    104—1954
3296              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ Q ^ JgQ7

   (d) An individual who owns the entire interest in an unin-
corporated trade or business shall be treated as his own em-
ployer. A partnership shall be treated as the employer of
each partner who is an employee within the meaning of sub-
division (a).
   (e) The term "contribution on behalf of an owner-em-
ployee" includes, except as the context otherwise requires, a
contribution under a plan—
   (1) By the employer for an owner-employee, and
   (2) By an owner-employee as an employee.
   SEC. 7. Section 17502.3 is added to the Eevenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   17502.3. A trust forming part of a pension or profit-shar-
ing plan which provides contributions or benefits for em-
ployees some or all of whom are owner-employees shall con-
stitute a qualified trust under this article only if, in addition
to meeting the requirements of Section 17501, the following
requirements of this section are met by the trust and by the
plan of which such trust is a part:
   (a) In the case of a trust which is created on or after the
date of-the enactment of this section, or which was created be-
fore such date but is not exempt from tax under Section
17631 as an organization described in Section 17501 on the
day before such date, the trustee is a bank, but a person (in-
cluding the employer) other than a bank may be granted,
under the trust instrument, the power to control the invest-
ment of the trust funds either by directing investments (in-
cluding reinvestments, disposals, and exchanges) or by dis-
approving proposed investments (including reinvestments,
disposals, and exchanges). This subdivision shall not apply to
a trust created or organized outside the United States before
the date of the enactment of this section if, under Section
17505, it is treated as exempt from tax under Section 17631
on the day before such date; or, to the extent provided under
regulations prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board, to a trust
which uses annuity, endowment, or life insurance contracts of
a life insurance company exclusively to fund the benefits pre-
scribed by the trust, if the life insurance company supplies
annually such information about trust transactions affecting
owner-employees as the Franchise Tax Board shall by
forms or regulations prescribe. For purposes of this section,
the term "bank" means a bank as defined in Section 581 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, a corporation which under
the laws of the state of its incorporation is subject to supervi-
sion and examination by the commissioner of banking or other
officer of such state in charge of the administration of the
banking laws of such state, and, in the case of a trust created
or organized outside the United States, a bank or trust com-
pany, wherever incorporated, exercising fiduciary powers and
subject to supervision and examination by governmental au-
thority.
                     1969
Ch. 16071                   REGULAR SESSION                   3297

   (b) Under the plan—
       (1) The employees' rights to or derived from the contri-
   butions under the plan are nonforfeitable at the time the
   contributions are paid to or under the plan; and
       (2) In the case of a profit-sharing plan, there is a definite
   formula for determining the contributions to be made by
   the employer on behalf of employees (other than owner-
   employees) .
Subdivision (b) (1) shall not apply to contributions which,
under provisions of the plan adopted pursuant to regulations
prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board to preclude the dis-
crimination prohibited by Section 17501(d), may not be used
to provide benefits for designated employees in the event of
early termination of the plan.
    (c) The plan benefits each employee having a period of em-
ployment of three years or more. For purposes of the preced-
ing sentence, the term "employee" does not include any em-
ployee whose customary employment is for not more than 20
hours in any one week or is for not more than five months in
any calendar year.
    (d) Under the plan—
    (1) Contributions or benefits are not provided for any
owner-employee unless such owner-employee has consented to
being included under the plan; and
    (2) No benefits may be paid to any owner-employee, except
in the case of his becoming disabled (within the meaning of
Section 17112.5), prior to his attaining the age of 59J years.
    (e) The plan does not permit—
       (1) Contributions to be made by the employer on behalf
   of any owner-employee in excess of the amounts which may
   be deducted under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, for the
   taxable year;
       (2) In the case of a plan which provides contributions or
   benefits only for owner-employees, contributions to be made
   on behalf of any owner-employee in excess of the amounts
   which may be deducted under Sections 17513 to 17525, in-
   clusive, for the taxable year; and
       (3) If a distribution under the plan is made to any em-
   ployee and if any portion of such distribution is an amount
   described in Section 17112.5, contributions to be made on
   behalf of such employee for the five taxable years succeed-
   ing the taxable year in which such distribution is made.
Subdivisions (e) (1) and (e) (2) shall not apply to any contri-
bution which is not considered to be an excess contribution
 (as defined in Section 17502.4(a)) by reason of the applica-
tion of Section 17502.4(c).
     (f) Except as provided in this subdivision, the plan meets
the requirements of Section 17501(d) without taking into ac-
 count for any purpose contributions or benefits under Chapter
 2 (relating to tax on self-employment income) and Chapter 21
3298              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQh. 1607

(relating to Federal Insurance Contributions Act) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1954, Title I I of the Social Security
Act, as amended, or any other federal or state law. If—
      (1) Of the contributions deductible under Sections 17513
   to 17525, inclusive, not more than one-third is deductible
   by reason of contributions by the employer on behalf of
   owner-employees, and
      (2) Taxes paid by the owner-employees under Chapter 2
   of the Internal Eevenue Code of 1954 (relating to tax on
   self-employment income), and the taxes which would be
   payable under such Chapter 2 by the owner-employees but
   for paragraphs (4) and (5) of Section 1402(c) of the In-
   ternal Revenue Code of 1954, are taken into account as con-
   tributions by the employer on behalf of such owner-em-
   ployees,
then taxes paid under Section 3111 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1954 (relating to tax on employers) with respect to
an employee may, for purposes of Section 17501(d), be taken
into account as contributions by the employer for such em-
ployee under the plan.
   (g) Under the plan, if an owner-employee dies before his
entire interest has been distributed to him, or if distribution
has been commenced in accordance with Section 17501 (i) (2)
to his surviving spouse and such surviving spouse dies before
his entire interest has been distributed to such surviving
spouse, his entire interest (or the remaining part of such in-
terest if distribution thereof has commenced) will, within five
years after his death (or the death of his surviving spouse), be
distributed, or applied to the purchase of an immediate an-
nuity for his beneficiary or beneficiaries (or the beneficiary or
beneficiaries of his surviving spouse) which will be payable for
the life of such beneficiary or beneficiaries (or for a term
certain not extending beyond the life expectancy of such bene-
ficiary or beneficiaries) and which will be immediately distrib-
uted to such beneficiary or beneficiaries. The preceding sen-
tence shall not apply if distribution of the interest of an
owner-employee has commenced and such distribution is for a
term certain over a period permitted under Section 17501 (i)
 (2)(B).
    (h) Under the plan—
    (1) Any contribution which is an excess contribution, to-
gether with the income attributable to such excess contribu-
tion, is (unless Section 17502.4(b)(5) applies) to be repaid
to the owner-employee on whose behalf such excess contribu-
tion is made;
    (2) If for any taxable year the plan does not, by reason
of Section 17502.4(b)(1), meet (for purposes of Sections
17513 to 17525, inclusive) the requirements of this section
with respect to an owner-employee, the income for the taxable
year attributable to the interest of such owner-employee under
the plan is to be paid to such owner-employee; and
                                  t
                    1969
Ch. 16071                  REGULAR SESSION                 3299

    (3) The entire interest of an owner-employee is to be re-
paid to him when required by the provisions of Section
17502.4(b)(5).
    (i) (1) If the plan provides contributions or benefits for
an owner-employee who controls, or for two or more owner-
employees who together control, the trade or business with
respect to which the plan is established, and who also control
as an owner-employee or as owner-employees one or more other
trades or businesses, such plan and the plans established with
respect to such other trades or businesses, when coalesced, con-
stitute a single plan which meets the requirements of Section
17501 (including subdivision (j) thereof) and of this section
with respect to the employees of all such trades or businesses
 (including the trade or business with respect to which the
plan intended to qualify under this section is established).
    (2) For purposes of paragraph (1), an owner-employee, or
two or more owner-employees, shall be considered to control
a trade or business if such owner-employee, or such two or
more owner-employees together—
       (A) Own the entire interest in an unincorporated trade
   or business, or
       (B) In the case of a partnership, own more than 50 per-
   cent of either the capital interest or the profits interest in
   such partnership.
For purposes of the preceding sentence, an owner-employee,
or two or more owner-employees, shall be treated as owning
any interest in a partnership which is owned, directly or in-
directly, by a partnership which such owner-employee, or such
two or more owner-employees, are considered to control within
the meaning of the preceding sentence.
    (j) The plan does not provide contributions or benefits for
any owner-employee who controls (within the meaning of sub-
division ( i ) ( 2 ) ) , or for two or more owner-employees who
together control, as an owner-employee or as owner-employees,
any other trade or business, unless the employees of each
trade or business which such owner-employee or such owner-
employees control are included under a plan which meets the
requirements of Section 17501 (including subdivision (j)
thereof) and of this section, and provides contributions a n d
benefits for employees which are not less favorable than con-
tributions and benefits provided for owner-employees u n d e r
the plan.
    (k) Under the plan, contributions on behalf of any owner-
employee may be made only with respect to the earned in-
come of such owner-employee which is derived from the t r a d e
or business with respect to which such plan is established.
   SEC. 8. Section 17502.4 is added to the Eevenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   17502.4. (a) For purposes of this article, the term "excess
contribution" means, except as provided in subdivision ( c ) —
                            5
3300             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQfo j g Q y

      (1) If, in the taxable year, contributions are made under
  the plan only on behalf of owner-employees, the amount
  of any contribution made on behalf of any owner-employee
  which (without regard to this section) is not deductible
  under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, for the taxable
  year; or
      (2) If, in the taxable year, contributions are made under
  the plan on behalf of employees other than owner-employ-
  ees—
      (A) The amount of any contribution made by the em-
  ployer on behalf of any owner-employee which (without
  regard to this section) is not deductible under Sections
  17513 to 17525, inclusive, for the taxable year;
      (B) The amount of any contribution made by any owner-
  employee (as an employee) at a rate which exceeds the
  rate of contributions permitted to be made by employees
  other than owner-employees;
      (C) The amount of any contribution made by any owner-
  employee (as an employee) which exceeds the lesser of two
  thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) or 10 percent of
  the earned income for such taxable year derived by such
   owner-employee from the trade or business with respect to
  which the plan is established; and
      (D) In the case of any individual on whose behalf con-
  tributions are made under more than one plan as an owner-
   employee, the amount of any contribution made by such
   owner-employee (as an employee) under all such plans
   which exceeds two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500);
   and
       (3) The amount of any contribution made on behalf of
   an owner-employee in any taxable year for which, under
   subdivision (b)(1) or (b)(5), the plan does not (for pur-
   poses of Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive) meet the re-
   quirements of Section 17502.3 with respect to such owner-
   employee.
For purposes of this subdivisiqn, the amount of any contri-
bution which is allocable (determined in accordance with reg-
ulations prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board) to the pur-
chase of life, accident, health, or other insurance shall not be
taken into account.
   (b) (1) If an excess contribution (other than an excess
contribution to which subdivision (b)(5) applies) is made on
behalf of an owner-employee in any taxable year, the plan
with respect to which such excess contribution is made shall,
except as provided in subdivisions (b)(3) and ( b ) ( 4 ) , be
considered, for purposes of Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive,
as not meeting the requirements of Section 17502.3 with re-
spect to such owner-employee for the taxable year and for all
succeeding taxable years.
    (2) For any taxable year for which any plan does not meet
the requirements of Section 17502.3 with respect to an owner-
                        1969
Ch. 1607]                      REGULAR SESSION                         33OI

employee by reason of subdivision ( b ) ( 1 ) , the gross income
of such owner-employee shall, for purposes of this article, in-
clude the amount of net income for such taxable year attrib-
utable to the interest of such owner-employee under such plan.
   (3) Subdivision (b) (1) shall not apply to an excess con-
tribution with respect to any taxable year, if, on or before the
close of the six-month period beginning on the day on which
the Franchise Tax Board sends notice (by certified or regis-
tered mail) to the person to whom such excess contribution
was paid of the amount of such excess contribution, the amount
of such excess contribution, and the net income attributable
thereto, is repaid to the owner-employee on whose behalf such
excess contribution was made. If the excess contribution is an
excess contribution as defined in subdivision (a) (1) or (a) (2)
 (A), or is an excess contribution as defined in subdivision
 (a) (3) with respect to which a deduction has been claimed
under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, the notice required
by the preceding sentence shall not be mailed prior to the
time that the amount of the tax under this article of such
owner-employee for the taxable year in which such excess
contribution was made has been finally determined.
   (4) If an excess contribution, together with the net income
attributable thereto, is not repaid within the six-month period
referred to in subdivision (b)(3), subdivision (b)(1) shall
not apply to an excess contribution with respect to any taxable
year beginning with the taxable year in which the person to
whom such excess contribution was paid repays the amount
of such excess contribution to the owner-employee on whose
behalf such excess contribution was made, and pays to such
owner-employee the amount of net income attributable to the
interest of such owner-employee which, under subdivision (b)
(2), has been included in the gross income of such owner-em-
ployee for any prior taxable year.
   (5) If an excess contribution made on behalf of an owner-
employee is determined to have been willfully made, then—
   (A) Subdivisions ( b ) ( 1 ) , ( b ) ( 2 ) , ( b ) ( 3 ) , and (b)(4) shall
not apply with respect to such excess contribution;
   (B) There shall be distributed to the owner-employee on
whose behalf such excess contribution was willfully made his
entire interest in all plans with respect to which he is an
owner-employee; and
   (C) No plan shall, for purposes of Sections 17513 to 17525,
inclusive, be considered as meeting the requirements of Sec-
tion 17502.3 with respect to such owner-employee for the tax-
able year in which it is determined that such excess contribu-
tion was willfully made and for the five taxable years
following such taxable year.
   (6) In any case in which subdivision (b) (1) applies, the
period for assessing any deficiency arising by reason of—
      (A) The disallowance of any deduction under Sections
   17513 to 17525, inclusive, on account of a plan not meeting
3302               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                J " ^ JgQ7

   the requirements of Section 17502.3, with respect to the
   owner-employee on whose behalf an excess contribution was
   made, or
       (B) The inclusion, under subdivision ( b ) ( 2 ) , in gross
   income of such owner-employee of income attributable to the
   interest of such owner-employee under a plan,
for the taxable year in which such excess contribution was
made or for any succeeding taxable year shall not expire prior
to one year after the close of the six-month period referred to
in subdivision (b) (3).
    (c) A contribution by the employer on behalf of an owner-
employee shall not be considered to be an excess contribution
within the meaning of subdivision (a), if—
       (1) Under the plan such contribution is required to be
    applied (directly or through a trustee) to pay premiums or
    other consideration for one or more annuity, endowment,
    or life insurance contracts on the life of such owner-em-
    ployee issued under the plan,
       (2) The amount of such contribution exceeds the amount
    deductible under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, with
    respect to contributions made by the employer on behalf of
    such owner-employee under the plan, and
       (3) The amount of such contribution does not exceed the
    average of the amounts which were deductible under Sec-
    tions 17513 to 17525, inclusive, with respect to contribu-
    tions made by the employer on behalf of such owner-em-
    ployee under the plan (or which would have been deductible
    under such section if such section had been in effect) for
    the first three taxable years (A) preceding the year in
    which the last such annuity, endowment, or life insurance
    contract was issued under the plan and (B) in which such
    owner-employee derived earned income from the trade or
    business with respect to which the plan is established, or for
    so many of such taxable years as such owner-employee was
    engaged in such trade or business and derived earned in-
    come therefrom.
 In the case of any individual on whose behalf contributions
 described in subdivision (c)(1) are made under more than
 one plan as an owner-employee during any taxable year, the
 preceding sentence shall not apply if the amount of such con-
 tributions under all such plans for such taxable year exceeds
 two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500). Any contribution
 which is not considered to be an excess contribution by reason
 of the application of this subdivision shall, for purposes of
 subdivisions ( a ) ( 2 ) ( B ) , (C), and (D), be taken into account
 as a contribution made by such owner-employee as an em-
 ployee to the extent that the amount of such contribution is
 not deductible under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive, for
 the taxable year, but only for the purpose of applying such
 subdivisions to other contributions made by such owner-em-
 ployee as an employee.
                     1969
Ch. 1607]                   REGULAR SESSION                     3303

    S E C 9. Section 17502.5 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
    17502.5. (a) For purposes of this article, a custodial ac-
count shall be treated as a qualified trust under this section,
if—
       (1) Such custodial account would, except for the fact
    that it is not a trust, constitute a qualified trust under this
    section;
        (2) The custodian is a bank (as defined in Section
    17502.3(a));
       (3) The investment of the funds in such account (in-
    cluding all earnings) is to be made—
       (A) Solely in regulated investment company stock with
    respect to which an employee is the beneficial owner, or
        (B) Solely in annuity, endowment, or life insurance con-
    tracts issued by an insurance company;
        (4) The shareholder of record of any such stock de-
    scribed in paragraph (3) (A) is the custodian or its nom-
    inee ; and
        (5) The contracts described in paragraph (3) (B) are
    held by the custodian until distributed under the plan.
For purposes of this article, in the case of a custodial account
treated as a qualified trust under this section by reason of
the preceding sentence, the custodian of such account shall be
treated as the trustee thereof.
     (b) For purposes of subdivision (a), the term "regulated
investment company" means a domestic corporation which—
        (1) Is a regulated investment company within the mean-
    ing of Section 851(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
    and
        (2) Issues only redeemable stock.
    SEC. 10. Section 17502.6 is added to the Revenue and Tax-
 ation Code, to read:
     17502.6. For purposes of this article, the term " a n n u i t y "
 includes a face-amount certificate, as defined in Section
 2(a) (15) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C.,
 sec. 80a-2); but does not include any contract or certificate
 issued after December 31, 1967, which is transferable, if any
 person other than the trustee of a trust described in Section
 17501 which is exempt from tax under Section 17631 is the
 owner of such contract or certificate.
     SEC. 11. Section 17502.7 is added to the Revenue and Tax-
 ation Code, to read:
    17502.7. Under regulations prescribed by the Franchise
 Tax Board, a pension or annuity plan may provide for the
 payment of benefits for sickness, accident, hospitalization,
 and medical expenses of retired employees, their spouses and
 their dependents, but only if—
     (a) Such benefits are subordinate to the retirement bene-
 fits provided by the plan,
     (b) A separate account is established and maintained for
 such benefits,
3304              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               m ^ lg()7

   (c) The employer's contributions to such separate account
are reasonable and ascertainable,
   (d) I t is impossible, at any time prior to the satisfaction
of all liabilities under the plan to provide such benefits, for
any part of the corpus or income of such separate account
to be (within the taxable year or thereafter) used for, or
diverted to, any purpose other than the providing of such
benefits, and
   (e) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 17501(b),
upon the satisfaction of all liabilities under the plan to pro-
vide such benefits, any amount remaining in such separate ac-
count must, under the terms of the plan, be returned to the
employer.
   SEC. 12. Section 17502.8 is added to the Eevenue and Tax-
ation Code, to read:
   17502.8. In the case of a trust forming part of a pension
plan which has been determined by the Franchise Tax Board
to constitute a qualified trust under Section 17501 and to be
exempt from taxation under Section 17631 for a period be-
ginning after contributions were first made to or for such
trust, if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Franchise Tax
Board that—
      (a) Such trust was created pursuant to a collective bar-
   gaining agreement between employee representatives and
   two or more employers who are not related (determined
   under regulations prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board),
      (b) Any disbursements of contributions made to or for
   such trust before the time as of which the Franchise Tax
   Board determined that the trust constituted a qualified
   trust, substantially complied with the terms of the trust,
   and the plan of which the trust is a part, as subsequently
   qualified, and
      (c) Before the time as of which the Franchise Tax Board
   determined that the trust constitutes a qualified trust, the
   contributions to or for such trust were not used in a man-
   ner which would jeopardize the interests of its beneficiaries,
then such trust shall be considered as having constituted a
qualified trust under Section 17501 and as having been ex-
empt from taxation under Section 17631 for the period be-
ginning on the date on which contributions were first made to
or for such trust and ending on the date such trust first con-
stituted (without regard to this section) a qualified trust
under Section 17501.
   SEC. 13. Section 17503 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   17503. (a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), the
amount actually distributed or made available to any
distributee by any employees' trust described in Section 17501
which is exempt from tax under Section 17631 shall be tax-
able to him, in the year in which so distributed or made avail-
able, under Sections 17101 to 17112.7 (relating to annui-
                     1969
Ch. 1607]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3305

ties). The amount actually distributed or made available to
any distributee shall not include net unrealized appreciation
in securities of the employer corporation attributable to the
amount contributed by the employee. Such net unrealized ap-
preciation and the resulting adjustments to basis of such secu-
rities shall be determined in accordance with regulations pre-
scribed by the Franchise Tax Board.
    (b) In the case of an employees' trust described in Section
17501, which is exempt from tax under Section 17631, if the
total distributions payable with respect to any employee are
paid to the distributee within one taxable year of the dis-
tributee on account of the employee's death or other separation
from the service, or on account of the death of the employee
after his separation from the service, the amount of such
distribution, to the extent exceeding the amounts contributed
by the employee, which employee contributions shall be reduced
by any amounts theretofore distributed to him which were not
includable in gross income, shall be considered a gain from the
sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than six
months.
    Where such total distributions include securities of the em-
ployer corporation, there shall be excluded from such excess
the net unrealized appreciation attributable to that part of
the total distributions which consists of the securities of the
employer corporation so distributed. The amount of such net
unrealized appreciation and the resulting adjustments to basis
of the securities of the employer corporation so distributed
shall be determined in accordance with regulations prescribed
by the Franchise Tax Board.
    This subdivision (b) shall not apply to distributions paid to
any distributee to the extent such distributions are attribut-
able to contributions made on behalf of the employee while he
was an employee within the meaning of Section 17502.2(a).
    (c) For purposes of this section—
    (1) The term "securities" means only shares of stock and
bonds or debentures issued by a corporation with interest
coupons or in registered form.
    (2) The term "securities of the employer corporation"
includes securities of a parent or subsidiary corporation (as
defined in subdivisions (e) and (f) of Section 17535) of the
employer corporation.
    (3) The term "total distributions p a y a b l e " means the bal-
ance to the credit of an employee which becomes payable to
a distributee on account of the employee's death or other sep-
aration from the service, or on account of his death after sep-
aration from the service.
    SEC. 14. Section 17511 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
 is amended to read:
    17511. Except as provided in subdivision (a), if an annuity
 contract is purchased by an employer for an employee under
a plan which meets the requirements of Section 17515 (whether
3306              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [QJj. ^ 6 0 7

 or not the employer deduets the amounts paid for the contract
 under such section), the employee shall include in his gross
 income the amounts received under such contract for the year
received as provided in Sections 17101 to 17112, inclusive (re-
lating to annuities).
    (a) I f -
       (1) An annuity contract is purchased by an employer
    for an employee under a plan described in the first para-
    graph ;
       (2) Such plan requires that refunds of contributions
    with respect to annuity contracts purchased under such plan
    be used to reduce subsequent premiums on the contracts
    under the plan; and
       (3) The total amounts payable by reason of an em-
    ployee's death or other separation from the service, or by
    reason of the death of an employee after the employee's sep-
    aration from the service, are paid to the payee within one
    taxable year of the payee,
 then the amount of such payments, to the extent exceeding the
 amount contributed by the employee, which employee contri-
butions shall be reduced by any amounts theretofore paid to
him which were not includable in gross income, shall be con-
 sidered a gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held
for more than six months. This subdivision shall not apply to
 amounts paid to any payee to the extent such amounts are
 attributable to contributions made on behalf of the employee
while he was an employee within the meaning of Section
 17502.2(a).
    (b) For purposes of subdivision (a), the term "total
 amounts" means the balance to the credit of an employee
which becomes payable to the payee by reason of the em-
ployee's death or other separation from the service, or by
reason of his death after separation from the service.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term "employee"
includes an individual who is an employee within the meaning
of Section 17502.2(a), and the employer of such individual is
the person treated as his employer under Section 17502.2(d).
   SEC. 15. Section 17513 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   17513. If contributions are paid by an employer to or
under a stock bonus, pension, profit-sharing, or annuity plan,
or if compensation is paid or accrued on account of any em-
ployee under a plan deferring the receipt of such compensa-
tion, such contributions or compensation shall not be deductible
under Section 17202 (relating to trade or business expenses)
or Section 17252 (relating to expenses for the production of
income); but, if they satisfy the conditions of either of such
sections, they shall be deductible under Sections 17513 to
17525, inclusive, subject, however, to the limitations contained
in Sections 17514 to 17525, inclusive, as to the amounts de-
ductible in any year.
                    1969
Ch. 1607]                  REGULAR SESSION                3307

   SEC. 15.5. Section 17515 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code is amended to read:
   17515. A deduction shall be allowed in the taxable year
when paid, in an amount determined in accordance with Sec-
tion 17514, if the contributions are paid toward the purchase of
retirement annuities and such purchase is part of a plan which
meets the requirements of Section 17501(e), (d), (e), (f),
(g), and (h), and, if applicable, the requirements of Section
17501 (i) and (j) and of Section 17502.3 (other than subdivi-
sion ( a ) ) , and if refunds of premiums, if any, are applied
within the current taxable year or next succeeding taxable year
towards the purchase of such retirement annuities.
   SEC. 16. Section 17520.4 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
    17520.4. In the case of a plan included in Sections 17514,
17515, or 17516, which provides contributions or benefits for
employees some or all of whom are employees within the mean-
ing of Section 17502.2(a) for purposes of this article—
    (a) The term "employee" includes an individual who is
an employee within the meaning of Section 17502.2(a), and
the employer of such individual is the person treated as his
employer under Section 17502.2(d) ;
    (b) The term "earned income" has the meaning assigned
to it by Section 17502.2(b);
    (c) The contributions to such plan on behalf of an indi-
vidual who is an employee within the meaning of Section
17502.2(a) shall be considered to satisfy the conditions of Sec-
tion 17202 or 17252 to the extent that such contributions do
not exceed the earned income of such individual derived from
the trade or business with respect to which such plan is estab-
lished, and to the extent that such contributions are not al-
locable (determined in accordance with regulations prescribed
by the Franchise Tax Board) to the purchase of life, acci-
dent, health, or other insurance; and
    (d) Any reference to compensation shall, in the case of an
individual who is an employee within the meaning of Section
17502.2(a), be considered to be a reference to the earned in-
come of such individual derived from the trade or business
with respect to which the plan is established.
    SEC. 17. Section 17520.6 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
 tion Code, to read:
    17520.6. In the case of a plan included in Sections 17514,
 17515, or 17516 which provides contributions or benefits for
 employees some or all of whom are employees within the mean-
 ing of Section 17502.2(a) —
    (a) The limitations provided by Sections 17514, 17515,
 17516, and 17520 on the amounts deductible for any taxable
year shall be computed, with respect to contributions on behalf
 of employees (other than employees within the meaning of
 Section 17502.2(a)), as if such employees were the only em-
 ployees for whom contributions and benefits are provided un-
 der the plan;
3308             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Q^   JgQ7

    (b) The limitations provided by Sections 17514, 17515,
17516 and 17520 on the amounts deductible for any taxable
year shall be computed, with respect to contributions on behalf
of employees within the meaning of Section 17502.2(a)—
    (1) As if such employees were the only employees for whom
contributions and benefits are provided under the plan, and
    (2) Without regard to Section 17514(d), the second and
third sentences of Section 17516, and the second sentence of
Section 17520; and
    (c) The amounts deductible under Sections 17514, 17515,
17516, and 17520, with respect to contributions on behalf of
any employee within the meaning of Section 17502.2(a), shall
not exceed the applicable limitation provided in Section
17524.
    SEC. 18. Section 17524 is added to the Eevenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
    17524. (a) In the case of a plan included in Section
17514, 17515, or 17516, which provides contributions or bene-
fits for employees some or all of whom are employees within
the meaning of Section 17502.2(a), the amounts deductible
under Sections 17513 to 17520.6, inclusive, in any taxable year
with respect to contributions on behalf of any employee within
the meaning of Section 17502.2(a) shall, subject to the pro-
visions of subdivision (b), not exceed two thousand five hun-
 dred dollars ($2,500), or 10 percent of the earned income de-
rived by such employee from the trade or business with respect
to which the plan is established, whichever is the lesser.
    (b) (1) In any taxable year in which amounts are de-
ductible with respect to contributions under two or more
plans on behalf of an individual who is an employee within
the meaning of Section 17502.2(a) with respect to such plans,
the aggregate amount deductible for such taxable year under
 all such plans with respect to contributions on behalf of such
employee shall not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars
 ($2,500), or 10 percent of the earned income derived by such
employee from the trades or businesses with respect to which
the plans are established, whichever is the lesser.
    (2) In any case in which the amounts deductible under
Sections 17513 to 17520.6, inclusive (with the application of
the limitations of this section), with respect to contributions
made on behalf of an employee within the meaning of Section
 17502.2(a), under two or more plans are, by reason of sub-
division (b)(1), less than the amounts deductible under such
section determined without regard to such subdivision, the
amount deductible under Sections 17513 to 17520.6, inclusive,
with respect to such contributions under each such plan shall
be determined in accordance with regulations prescribed by
the Franchise Tax Board.
    (c) For purposes of this section, contributions which are
allocable (determined under regulations prescribed by the
                   1969
Ch. 1607]                 REGULAR SESSION                 3309

Franchise Tax Board) to the purchase of life, accident, health,
or other insurance shall not be taken into account.
   SEC. 19. Section 17525 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   17525. For purposes of this article, any amount paid, di-
rectly or indirectly, by an owner-employee (within the mean-
ing of Section 17502.2(c)) in repayment of any loan which
under Section 17112.5 was treated as an amount received
under a contract purchased by a trust described in Section
17501 which is exempt from tax under Section 17631 or pur-
chased as a part of a plan described in Section 17511 shall be
treated as a contribution to which this section applies on
behalf of such owner-employee to such trust or to or under
such plan.
   SEC. 20. Section 17526 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   17526. (a) A plan of an employer for the purchase for
and distribution to his employees or their beneficiaries of
United States bonds described in subdivision (b) shall consti-
tute a qualified bond purchase plan under this section if—
   (1) The plan meets the requirements of Section 17501(c),
 (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) and, if applicable, the require-
ments of Section 17501 (i) and (j) and of Section 17502.3
 (other than subdivisions (a), (e) (2), and ( h ) ) ;
   (2) Contributions under the plan are used solely to pur-
chase for employees or their beneficiaries United States bonds
described in subdivision (b).
   (b) This section shall apply only to a bond issued under the
Second Liberty Bond Act, as amended, which by its terms, or
by regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the United
States Treasury under such act—
   (1) Provides for payment of interest, or investment yield,
only upon redemption;
   (2) May be purchased only in the name of an individual;
   (3) Ceases to bear interest, or provide investment yield,
not later than five years after the death of the individual in
whose name it is purchased;
   (4) May be redeemed before the death of the individual in
whose name it is purchased only if such individual—
   (A) Has attained the age of 5 9 | years, or
   (B) Has become disabled (within the meaning of Section
17112.5); and
   (5) Is nontransferable.
   This section shall apply to a bond described in subdivision
 (b) only if it is purchased in the name of the employee.
   (c) Contributions paid by an employer to or under a quali-
fied bond purchase plan shall be allowed as a deduction in an
amount determined under Sections 17513 to 17525, inclusive,
in the same manner and to the same extent as if such contri-
butions were made to a trust described in Section 17501 which
is exempt from tax under Section 17631.
3310              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQJ1_ ]_607

    (d) (1) For purposes of this article, in the case of a dis-
tributee of a bond described in subdivision (b) under a quali-
fied bond purchase plan, or from a trust described in Section
17501 which is exempt from tax under Section 17631, gross
income does not include any amount attributable to the re-
ceipt of such bond. Upon redemption of such bond, the pro-
ceeds shall be subject to taxation under this part, but the
provisions of Sections 17101 to 17112.7, inclusive (relating
to annuities, etc.) and Sections 18183, 18184, and 18185 (re-
lating to bonds and other evidences of indebtedness) shall
not apply.
    (2) The basis of any bond received by a distributee under
a qualified bond purchase plan—
        (A) If such bond is distributed to an employee, or with
    respect to an employee, who at the time of purchase of the
    bond, was an employee other than an employee within the
    meaning of Section 17502.2(a), shall be the amount of the
    contributions by the employee which were used to purchase
    the bond, and
        (B) If such bond is distributed to an employee, or with
    respect to an employee, who, at the time of purchase of
    the bond, was an employee within the meaning of Section
    17502.2(a), shall be the amount of the contributions used
    to purchase the bond which were made on behalf of such
    employee and were not allowed as a deduction under sub-
    division (c).
 The basis of any bond described in subdivision (b) received
 by a distributee from a trust described in Section 17501 which
 is exempt from tax under Section 17631 shall be determined
under regulations prescribed by the Franchise Tax Board.
     (e) Section 17503(b) shall not apply to any bond described
 in subdivision (b) distributed to any distributee and, for pur-
poses of applying such section, any such bond distributed to
 any distributee and any such bond to the credit of any em-
 ployee shall not be taken into account.
     (f) For purposes of this section, the term "employee" in-
 cludes an individual who is an employee within the meaning
 of Section 17502.2(a), and the employer of such individual
 shall be the person treated as his employer under Section
 17502.2(d).
     (g) At the time of purchase of any bond to which this
 section applies, proof of such purchase shall be furnished in
 such form as will enable the purchaser, and the employee
 in whose name such bond is purchased, to comply with the
 provisions of this section.
     (h) The Franchise Tax Board shall prescribe such regula-
 tions as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
 section.
    SEC. 20.3. Section 17529 is added to the Revenue and Tax-
 ation Code, to read:
                    1969
Ch. 16071                  REGULAR SESSION                33H

   17529. For purposes of this part, the term "earned in-
come" means wages, salaries, or professional fees, and other
amounts received as compensation for personal services ac-
tually rendered, but does not include that part of the com-
pensation derived by the taxpayer for personal services ren-
dered by him to a corporation which represents a distribution
of earnings or profits rather than a reasonable allowance as
compensation for the personal services actually rendered. I n
the case of a taxpayer engaged in a trade or business in which
both personal services and capital are material income-produc-
ing factors, under regulations prescribed by the Franchise
Tax Board, a reasonable allowance as compensation for the
personal services rendered by the taxpayer, not in excess of
30 percent of his share of the net profits of such trade or
business, shall be considered as earned income.
   SEC. 20.6. Section 17641 is added to the Eevenue and
Taxation Code, to read:
   17641. (a) In the case of a trust described in Section
17501 which is part of a plan providing contributions or ben-
efits for employees some or all of whom are owner-employees
(as defined in Section 17502.2(c)) who control (within the
meaning of Section 17502.3 (i) (2) the trade or business with
respect to which the plan is established, the term "prohibited
transaction" also means any transaction in which such trust,
directly or indirectly—
      (1) Lends any part of the corpus or income of the trust
   to;
      (2) Pays any compensation for personal services ren-
   dered to the trust to;
      (3) Makes any part of its services available on a pref-
   erential basis t o ; or
       (4) Acquires for the trust any property from, or sells
   any property t o ;
any person described in Section 17637 or to any such owner-
employee, a member of the family (as defined in Section
17289(d) of any such owner-employee, or a corporation con-
trolled by any such owner-employee through the ownership,
directly or indirectly, of 50 percent or more of the total
combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote
or 50 percent or more of the total value of shares of all
classes of stock of the corporation.
   (b) For purposes of the application of subdivision (a) (1),
the following rules shall apply with respect to a loan made
before the date of the enactment of this section which would
be a prohibited transaction if made in a taxable year begin-
ning after December 31, 1968.
    (1) If any part of the loan is repayable prior to December
31, 1969, the renewal of such part of the loan for a period not
extending beyond December 31, 1969, on the same terms, shall
not be considered a prohibited transaction.
3312              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA

    (2) If the loan is repayable on demand, the continuation of
the loan beyond December 31, 1969, shall be considered a pro-
hibited transaction.
    SEC. 21. Section 19267 is added to the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, to read:
   19267. (a) The trustee of a trust described in Section
17501 which is exempt from tax under Section 17631 to which
contributions have been paid under a plan on behalf of any
owner-employee (as defined in Section 17502.2(c)), and each
insurance company or other person which is the issuer of a
contract purchased by such a trust, or purchased under a plan
described in Section 17511, contributions for which have been
paid on behalf of any owner-employee, shall file such returns
 (in such form and at such times), keep such records, make
such identification of contracts and funds (and accounts within
such funds), and supply such information, as the Franchise
Tax Board shall by forms or regulations prescribe.
    (b) Every individual on whose behalf contributions have
been paid as an owner-employee (as defined in Section
17502.2(c)) —
       (1) To a trust described in Section 17501 which is ex-
   empt from tax under Section 17631, or
       (2) To an insurance company or other person under a
   plan described in Section 17511,
shall furnish the trustee, insurance company, or other person,
as the case may be, such information at such times and in
such form and manner as the Franchise Tax Board shall pre-
scribe by forms or regulations.
    (c) Every individual in whose name a bond described in
Section 17526(b) is purchased by his employer under a quali-
fied bond purchase plan described in Section 17526(a), or
by a trust described in Section 17501 which is exempt from
tax under Section 17631, shall furnish—
       (1) To his employer or to such trust, and
      (2) To the Franchise Tax Board (or to such person as
   the Franchise Tax Board may by regulations prescribe),
such information as the Franchise Tax Board shall by forms
or regulations prescribe.
   SEC. 22. The provisions of this act shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 1970.


                      CHAPTER 1608
An act to amend Sections 25, 25.6, and 196a of, to add Section
  195 to, and to add Part 5 (commencing with Section 4000)
  to Division 4 of, and to repeal Title 1 (commencing with
  Section 55) of Part 3 of Division 1 of, and to repeal Sec-
  tions 199 and 214 of, the Civil Code, and to amend Sections
  285.1, 395, 3961, 397, 426a, 426c, 1761, 1769, 1770,
  1771, and 1772 of, and to repeal Sections 125, 426o and
                        1969
Ch. 1608]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3313

  1019 of, the Code of Civil Procedure, and to amend Section
  26859 of the Government Code, and to amend Sections 10360,
  10361, 10362, 10363, 10364, 10366, 10368, 10369, and 10371
  of, and to repeal Sections 10365 and 10370 of, the Health
  and Safety Code, and to repeal Section 740.1 of the Wel-
  fare and Institutions Code, relating to domestic relations.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 25 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   25. Minors are all persons under 21 years of age; provided,
that this section shall be subject to the provisions of the titles
of this code on marriage and shall not be construed as repeal-
ing or limiting the provisions of Section 204; provided further,
that any person who has reached the age of 18 years and
thereafter contracts a lawful marriage, or who has contracted
 a lawful marriage and thereafter reaches the age of 18
years, shall in the first instance upon contracting such mar-
riage, and in the second instance upon reaching the age of 18
years, be of the age of majority for all purposes of the Civil
Code, the Probate Code, and the Code of Civil Procedure and
for the purposes of all other codes be deemed an adult person
for the purposes of entering into any engagement or transac-
tion respecting property or his estate, or for the purpose of
entering into any contract, the same as if he were 21 years of
age. Subsequent judgment of dissolution or nullity of such
marriage shall not deprive such person of his adult status
once attained under the foregoing provision.
   SEC. 2. Section 25.6 of the Civil Code is amended to r e a d :
   25.6. Notwithstanding any other provision of the law, any
minor who has contracted a lawful marriage may give consent
to the furnishing of hospital, medical and surgical care to such
minor, and such consent shall not be subject to disaffirmance
because of minority. The consent of the parent, or parents, of
such a person shall not be necessary in order to authorize hos-
pital, medical and surgical care. For the purposes of this sec-
tion only, subsequent judgment of dissolution of marriage
shall not deprive such person of his adult status once attained.
   SEC. 3. Title 1 (commencing with Section 55) of P a r t 3
of Division 1 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 195 is added to the Civil Code, to r e a d :
   195. The issue of a marriage which is void, invalid, ad-
judged a nullity, or dissolved by a judgment decreeing the
dissolution of the marriage is legitimate.
   SEC. 5. Section 196a of the Civil Code is amended to r e a d :
   196a. The father as well as the mother of an illegitimate
child must give him support and education suitable to his
circumstances. A civil suit to enforce such obligations may be
3314              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1608

maintained in behalf of a minor illegitimate child by his
mother or guardian, or by a guardian ad litem appointed
upon the written application or with the consent of his mother;
provided, that such application or consent shall not be neces-
sary if the mother is dead or incompetent, and in such action
the court shall have power to order and enforce performance
thereof, the same as is the case with respect to legitimate
children, in a suit for dissolution of marriage by a wife.
   SEC. 6. Section 199 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 214 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 8. P a r t 5 (commencing with Section 4000) is added
to Division 4 of the Civil Code, to read:

            PART 5.     T H E FAMILY LAW ACT
                   TITLE 1.     MARRIAGE
                     CHAPTER 1.    GENERAL

  4000. This part shall be known and may be cited as "The
Family Law Act."
  4001. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Ju-
dicial Council may provide by rule for the practice and pro-
cedure in proceedings under this part.

        CHAPTER 2.    T H E SOLEMNIZATION OP MARRIAGE

               Article 1. Validity of Marriage
   4100. Marriage is a personal relation arising out of a civil
contract, to which the consent of the parties capable of making
that contract is necessary. Consent alone will not constitute
marriage; it must be followed by the issuance of a license and
solemnization as authorized by this code, except as provided
by Section 4213.
   4101. Any unmarried male of the age of 21 years or up-
wards, and any unmarried female of the age of 18 years or
upwards, and not otherwise disqualified, is capable of consent-
ing to and consummating marriage; provided, that any male
under the age of 21 years and over the age of 18 years and
any female under the age of 18 years and over the age of 16
years, with the consent in writing of the parents of the person
under age, or one of such parents, or of his or her guardian,
or order of the superior court as provided for in Section
4102, where such written consent or order is filed by the clerk
issuing the marriage license, as provided in Section 4201,
is capable of consenting to and consummating marriage; pro-
vided, further, that any male under the age of 18 years and
any female under the age of 16 years, with the consent in writ-
ing of the parents of the person under age, or one of such
parents, or of his or her guardian, where such written consent
is filed with the clerk issuing the marriage license, as provided
in Section 4201 and where, after such showing as the su-
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                3315

perior court may require an order of said superior court is
made, granting permission to said person to marry, is capable
of consenting to and consummating marriage; provided, fur-
ther, that any male under the age of 18 years and any female
under the age of 16 years, by order of the superior court as
provided for in Section 4102, when such court order is filed
with the clerk issuing the marriage license, as provided in
Section 4201, is capable of consenting to and consummating
marriage.
  4102. Whenever it appears to the satisfaction of the su-
perior court by verified application of a minor that such per-
son requires a written consent to marry and that such minor
has no parent or has no parent capable of consenting, the
superior court may make an order consenting to the issuance
of a marriage license and granting permission to such minor
to marry. Such order shall be filed with the county clerk at
the time the license is issued.
  4103. Consent to marriage and solemnization thereof may
be proved under the same general rules of evidence as facts
are proved in other cases.
  4104. All marriages contracted without this state, which,
would be valid by the laws of the jurisdiction in which the
same were contracted, are valid in this state.

            Article 2. Authentication of Marriage
   4200. Marriage must be licensed, solemnized, authenticated,
and the certificate of registry of marriage filed as provided
in this article; but noncompliance with its provisions by others
than a party to a marriage does not invalidate it.
   4201. All persons about to be joined in marriage must first
obtain a license therefor, from a county clerk, which license
must show all of the following:
   (1) The identity of the parties.
   (2) Their real and full names, and places of residence.
   (3) Their ages.
   No license shall be granted when either of the parties, a p -
plicants therefor, is an imbecile, or insane, or is at the time
of making the application for the license, under the influ-
ence of any intoxicating liquor, or narcotic drug. If the male
is under the age of 21 years, or the female is under the age
of 18 years, and such person has not been previously married
as provided in Section 25, no license may be issued by t h e
county clerk unless both parties are capable of consenting to
and consummating marriage as provided for in Section 4101
and such consent or consents or court orders, provided for i n
Section 4102, must be filed by the clerk. Each applicant m a y
be required to present authentic identification as to name.
For the purpose of ascertaining all the facts mentioned or
required in this section, the clerk, at the time the license is
applied for may, if he deems it necessary in order to satisfy
 3316              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ J608

  himself as to matters enumerated in this section, examine the
  applicants for a license on oath, which examination shall be
  reduced to writing by the clerk, and subscribed by them; or,
  if necessary, the clerk may request additional documentary
  proof as to the accuracy of the facts stated. Applicants for a
  license pursuant to this section shall not be required to state,
  for any purpose, their race or color.
     The forms for the application for license to marry and the
  marriage license shall be prescribed by the State Department
  of Public Health, and shall be adapted to set forth the facts
  required in this section.
     4202. All persons about to be joined in marriage must ob-
  tain from the county clerk of the county in which the license
  is issued, in addition to the license therefor provided for in
  Section 4201, a certificate of registry of marriage as pro-
  vided in Division 9 (commencing with Section 10000) of the
  Health and Safety Code containing the items therein listed
  which certificate of registry of marriage shall be filled out as
  provided, in the presence of the county clerk issuing the mar-
  riage license and shall then be presented to the person per-
  forming the ceremony who shall complete the certificate
  thereon and shall cause to be entered thereon the signature
  and address of one witness to the marriage ceremony. Such
  certificate of registry of marriage shall be filed by the person
 performing the ceremony with the county recorder of the
 county in which the license was issued within four days after
 the ceremony.
     4203. Upon the loss or destruction of a certificate of regis-
 try of marriage subsequent to the marriage ceremony but be-
 fore filing with the county recorder in order to comply with
 Section 4202, the person solemnizing the marriage shall obtain
 a duplicate certificate of registry of marriage by filing an
 affidavit setting forth the facts with the county clerk of the
 county in which the license was issued.
    The fee for issuing such duplicate license and certificate
 is two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50).
    4204. A license issued pursuant to Section 4201 shall
expire 90 days after its issuance and the calendar date of expi-
ration shall be clearly noted on the face of each such license.
    The county clerk shall number each license issued, and shall
transmit at periodic intervals to the county recorder a list of
the licenses issued. Not later than 60 days after the date of is-
suance the county recorder shall notify those parties whose
certificates have not been filed of that fact and that the license
will automatically expire on the date shown on the face of the
license. The county recorder shall also notify the licensehold-
ers of the obligation of the person marrying them to return
the certificate of registry and endorsed license to the record-
er's office within four days after the ceremony.
    4205. Marriage may be solemnized by any judge of a court
of record or justice court in this state or by any priest, minis-
                     1969
Ch. 16081                   REGULAR SESSION                   3317

ter or rabbi of any religious denomination, of the age of 21
years or over.
    4206. No particular form for the ceremony of marriage is
required, but the parties must declare, in the presence of the
person solemnizing the marriage, that they take each other as
husband and wife.
    4207. The person solemnizing a marriage must first require
the presentation of the marriage license; and if he has any
reason to doubt the correctness of its statement of facts, he
must first satisfy himself of its correctness, and for that pur-
pose he may administer oaths and examine the parties and
witnesses in like manner as the county clerk does before issu-
ing the license.
    4208. The person solemnizing a marriage must make, sign
and endorse upon or attach to the license a statement, in the
form prescribed by the State Department of Public Health
showing all of the following:
     (1) The fact, time and place of solemnization.
     (2) The names and places of residence of one or more wit-
nesses to the ceremony.
     (3) A statement of the official position of the person sol-
emnizing the marriage, or of the denomination of which
such person is a priest, minister or clergyman. The person sol-
emnizing the marriage shall also type or print his name and
address.
    The marriage license, thus endorsed, shall be returned to
the county recorder of the county in which the license was
issued within four days after the ceremony.
    4209. The person solemnizing a marriage must, at the re-
 quest of, and for either party, issue a marriage certificate
 showing the facts specified in Section 4208.
    4210. If no record of the solemnization of a marriage here-
 tofore contracted, be known to exist, the parties may join in a
 written declaration of such marriage, substantially showing
 all of the following:
     (1) The names, ages, and residences of the parties.
     (2) The fact of marriage.
     (3) That no record of such marriage is known to exist.
     Such declaration shall be subscribed by the parties and at-
 tested by at least three witnesses.
     4211. Declarations of marriage must be acknowledged and
 recorded in like manner as grants of real property.
     4212. If either party to any marriage denies the same, or
  refuses to join in a declaration thereof, the other may proceed,
  by action in the superior court, to have the validity of the
 marriage determined and declared.
     If the female party to any marriage, who has reached the
  age of 18 years, desires to have the validity of such mar-
  riage established in order to establish the fact or time, or both,
  of her attaining majority, she may proceed, by action in the
  superior court, brought against the husband, to have the va-
3318              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ J 6 0 8

iidity of the marriage determined and declared and the fact
or «time, or both, of her attaining majority established and de-
clared ; and even though she be under the age of 21 years, such
action may be commenced and prosecuted by her in her own
name and right, and need not be brought or prosecuted in her
behalf by general guardian or by a guardian ad litem; but if
she has a general guardian of her estate he shall, unless he
prosecutes the action on her behalf, be joined as a defendant
together with the husband, in which latter event no judgment
shall be made in such action until such general guardian of
the estate has either appeared in the action, or defaulted after
due service of summons on him; and provided further, that if
the petitioner in such action has no general guardian of her
estate the court may, in its discretion require the appoint-
ment of a guardian ad litem to prosecute the action on her
behalf and to safeguard her interests in the action.
   4213. When unmarried persons, not minors, have been
living together as man and wife, they may, without a license,
be married by any clergyman. A certificate of such marriage
shall be made by the clergyman, delivered to the parties,
and recorded upon the records of the church of which the
clergyman is a representative. No other record need be made.
   4214. All marriages that have heretofore been, or that may
hereafter be consummated under the provisions of Section
4213 are hereby declared to be valid.
   4215. The provisions of this article, so far as they relate
to the solemnizing of marriages, are not applicable to members
of any particular religious denomination having, as such, any
peculiar mode of entering the marriage relation; but such mar-
riages must be declared, as provided in Section 4210, and
be acknowledged and recorded, as provided in Section 4211.
Where a marriage is declared as provided in Section 4210
the husband must file said declaration with the county re-
corder within 30 days after such marriage, and upon receiving
the same the county recorder must record the same; and if the
husband fails to make such declaration and file the same for
record, as herein provided, he is liable to the same penalties
as any person authorized to solemnize marriages, who fails to
make the return of such solemnization as provided by law.

             Article 3. Premarital Examination
  4300. Before any person, who is or may hereafter be au-
thorized by law to issue marriage licenses, shall issue any
such license, each applicant therefor shall file with him a
certificate from a duly licensed physician which certificate
shall state that the applicant has been given such examination,
including a standard serological test, as may be necessary for
the discovery of syphilis, made not more than 30 days prior
to the date of issuance of such license, and that, in the opinion
of such physician, the person either is not infected with syphi-
                    1969
Ch. 16081                  REGULAR SESSION                   3319

lis, or if so infected, is not in a stage of that disease which is
or may become communicable to the marital partner.
   Any person who by law is validly able to obtain a marriage
license in the State of California is validly able to give con-
sent to any examinations and tests required by this article.
In submitting the blood specimen to the laboratory the physi-
cian shall designate that this is a premarital test.
   4301. The certificate shall be accompanied by a statement
from the person in charge of the laboratory making the test,
or from some other person authorized to make such reports,
setting forth the name of the test, the date it was made, the
name and address of the physician to whom the test was sent
and the name and address of the person whose blood was
tested.
   4302. Except as hereinafter provided, the certificate of a
physician and the statement from a person in charge of a
laboratory or from a person authorized to make reports for
the laboratory shall be on a form to be provided and dis-
tributed by the State Department of Public Health to labora-
tories in the state approved by the State Department of Pub-
lic Health. This form is hereinafter referred to in this article
as " t h e certificate form."
   4303. Certificate forms provided by other states having
comparable laws will be accepted for persons who have been
examined and who have received serological tests for syphilis
outside of California provided such examinations and tests
are performed not more than 30 days prior to the issuance
of a marriage license. Certificates provided by the armed
forces of the United States will be accepted for military
personnel provided such certificates are signed by a medical
officer commissioned in such armed forces and provided the
certificates state the examinations and serological tests for
syphilis were performed not more than 30 days prior to the
issuance of the marriage license.
    4304. For the purpose of this article a standard serological
test shall be a test for syphilis approved by the State Depart-
ment of Public Health and an approved laboratory shall be
the laboratory of the State Department of Public Health or
a laboratory approved by the State Department of Public
Health or any other laboratory the director of which is li-
censed by the State Department of Public Health according
to law. In case of question concerning accuracy of tests pre-
scribed in this article, it shall be mandatory upon the State
Department of Public Health to accept specimens for checking
purposes from any district in the state.
   4305. The laboratory shall submit such laboratory reports
or records to the State Department of Public Health as are
required by regulation of the State Board of Public Health.
The health officer may destroy any copies of reports retained
by him pursuant to this section for a period of two years.
3320               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^   JgQg

   4306. The judge of the superior court in the county in
which the license is to be issued is hereby authorized and
empowered, on joint application by both parties to a mar-
riage, to waive the requirements as to medical examinations,
laboratory tests, and certificates and to order the licensing
authority to issue the license applied for, if all other require-
ments of the marriage laws have been complied with, and if
the judge is satisfied by affidavit or other proof that an emer-
gency or other sufficient cause for such action exists and that
the public health and welfare will not be injuriously affected
thereby.
   In any case where such examinations and tests have been
made and certificate or certificates have been refused because
one or both of the applicants have been found to be infected
with syphilis, the judge shall nevertheless be authorized and
empowered, on application of both parties to such marriage
to order the licensing authority to issue the license, if all other
requirements of the marriage laws have been complied with
and if the judge is satisfied by affidavit or other proof that
an emergency or other sufficient cause for such order exists
and that the public health and welfare will not be injuriously
affected thereby. In every such case, however, the clerk of the
court shall transmit to the State Department of Public Health
a transcript of the record and the order thereon for such
followup by the department as is required by law or deemed
necessary by the department for the protection of the public
health. The order of the court shall be filed by the licensing
authority in lieu of the certificate form.
   The superior court when it is deemed necessary may, to the
extent authorized by law or rules of court, order all proceed-
ings instituted under the provisions of this article to be con-
fidential and private. There shall be no fee for these court
proceedings.
   4307. The certificate forms and the court orders shall be
filed in the office of the county clerk. They shall be preserved
for one year from the date of filing after which date they may
be destroyed.
   4308. Any applicant for a marriage license, physician, or
representative of a laboratory who shall misrepresent his iden-
tity or any of the facts called for by the certificate form pre-
scribed by this article; or any licensing officer who shall issue
a marriage license without having received the certificate form
or an order from the court, or who shall have reason to believe
that any of the facts on the certificate form have been mis-
represented, and shall nevertheless issue a marriage license; or
any person who shall otherwise fail to comply with the pro-
visions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   4309. Certificates, laboratory statements or reports, appli-
cations and court orders, in this article referred to and the
information therein contained, shall be confidential and shall
not be divulged to or open to inspection by any person other
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3321

than state or local health officers or their duly authorized
representatives.
  Any person who shall divulge such information or open
to inspection such certificates, statements, reports, applications
or court orders, without authority, to any person not by law
entitled to the same shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

  TITLE 2. JUDICIAL DETEKMINATION OF VOID
            OE VOIDABLE MARRIAGE
                 CHAPTER 1.     VOID MARRIAGE

   4400. Marriages between parents and children, ancestors
and descendants of every degree, and between brothers and
sisters of the half as well as the whole blood, and between
uncles and nieces or aunts and nephews, are incestuous, and
void from the beginning, whether the relationship is legitimate
or illegitimate.
   4401. A subsequent marriage contracted by any person
during the life of a former husband or wife of such person,
with any person other than such former husband or wife, is
illegal and void from the beginning, unless:
   (1) The former marriage has been dissolved or declared a
nullity prior to the date of the subsequent marriage.
   (2) The former husband or wife is absent, and not known
to such person to be living for the space of five successive years
immediately preceding the subsequent marriage, or is generally
reputed or believed by such person to be dead at the time
such subsequent marriage was contracted, in either of which
cases the subsequent marriage is valid until its nullity is ad-
judged pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 4425.

               CHAPTER 2.     VOIDABLE MARRIAGE

  4425. A marriage is voidable if any of the following con-
ditions existed at the time of the marriage:
   (a) The party who commences the proceeding or on whose
behalf the proceeding is commenced was without the capability
of consenting thereto as provided in Section 4101, unless, after
attaining the age of consent, such party for any time freely
cohabited with the other as husband and wife.
   (b) The husband or wife of either party was living and the
marriage with such husband or wife was then in force, pro-
vided, however, that such husband or wife was absent and not
known to the party commencing the proceeding to be living for
a period of five successive years immediately preceding the
subsequent marriage for which the judgment of nullity is
sought, or was generally reputed or believed by such party to
be dead at the time such subsequent marriage was contracted.
   (c) Either party was of unsound mind, unless such party,
after coming to reason, freely cohabited with the other as
husband and wife.
3322              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^   1608

   (d) The consent of either party was obtained by fraud,
unless such party afterwards, with full knowledge of the facts
constituting the fraud, freely cohabited with the other as hus-
band or wife.
   (e) The consent of either party was obtained by force, un-
less such party afterwards freely cohabited with the other as
husband or wife.
   (f) Either party was, at the time of marriage, physically
incapable of entering into the marriage state, and such in-
capacity continues, and appears to be incurable.
  4426. A proceeding to obtain a judgment of nullity of
marriage, for causes set forth in Section 4425, must be com-
menced within the periods and by the parties, as follows:
   (a) For causes mentioned in subdivision ( a ) : by the party
to the marriage who was married under the age of legal con-
sent, within four years after arriving at the age of consent; or
by a parent, guardian, or other person having charge of such
nonaged male or female, at any time before such married minor
has arrived at the age of legal consent.
   (b) For causes mentioned in subdivision (b) : by either
party during the life of the other, or by such former husband
or wife.
   (c) For causes mentioned in subdivision (c) : by the party
injured, or relative or guardian of the party of unsound mind,
at any time before the death of either party.
   (d) For causes mentioned in subdivision (d) : by the party
injured, within four years after the discovery of the facts
constituting the fraud.
   (e) For causes mentioned in subdivision (e) : by the injured
party, within four years after the marriage.
   (f) For causes mentioned in subdivision (f) : by the injured
party, within four years after the marriage.

           CHAPTER 3.    SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

   4450. A proceeding based on void or voidable marriage
shall be commenced by filing in the superior court a petition
entitled " I n re the marriage of          and           " which
shall state that it is a petition for a judgment of nullity of
the marriage. A copy of the petition together with a copy of
a summons in a form and content approved by the Judicial
Council shall be served upon the other party to the marriage
in the same manner as service of papers in civil actions gen-
erally.
   4451. A judgment of nullity is conclusive only as to the
parties to the proceeding and those claiming under them.
   4452. Whenever a determination is made that a marriage
is void or voidable and the court finds that either party or both
parties believed in good faith that the marriage was valid, the
court shall declare such party or parties to have the status of
a putative spouse, and shall divide, in accordance with Section
                    1969
Cll. 1608]                 REGULAR SESSION                3323

4800, that property acquired during the union which would
have been community property or quasi-community property if
the union had not been void or voidable. Such property shall
be termed "quasi-marital property". If the division of prop-
erty is in issue and the court expressly reserves jurisdiction,
it may make the property division at a time subsequent to the
judgment.
   4453. The issue of a void or voidable marriage is legitimate,
and a judgment of nullity does not affect the legitimacy of
children conceived or born before the issuance of such judg-
ment. The court may, during the pendency of proceedings to
have a marriage adjudged a nullity, or at any time thereafter,
make such orders for the care, maintenance and support of
such children in the same manner as if the marriage had not
been void or voidable.
   4454. Custody of the children of a marriage adjudged a
nullity shall be determined according to Section 4600.
   4455. The court may, during the pendency of a proceeding
to have a marriage adjudged a nullity, or upon judgment,
order the other party to pay for the support of such party
in the same manner as if the marriage had not been void or
voidable, provided that the parties are found to be putative
spouses and the party for whose benefit the order is made is
found to be innocent of fraud or wrongdoing in inducing or
entering into the marriage, and free from knowledge of the
then existence of any prior marriage or other impediment to
the contracting of the marriage sought to be annulled.
   4456. The court may grant attorney's fees and costs in
accordance with Section 4525 in proceedings to have the mar-
riage adjudged void and in those proceedings based upon
voidable marriage in which the party applying for attorney's
fees and costs is found to be innocent of fraud or wrongdoing
in inducing or entering into the marriage, and free from
 knowledge of the then existence of any prior marriage or other
 impediment to the contracting of the marriage for which a
 judgment of nullity is sought.
   4457. In any proceeding under this title, the court may
 restore the maiden name or former name of the wife regard-
 less of whether or not a request was made therefor in the
 petition.

        TITLE 3. DISSOLUTION OF MARRIAGE
              CHAPTER 1.      GENERAL PROVISIONS

  4500. Marriage is dissolved only by (1) the death of one
of the parties or (2) the judgment of a court of competent
jurisdiction decreeing a dissolution of the marriage.
  4501. The effect of a judgment decreeing a dissolution of
the marriage is to restore the parties to the state of unmarried
persons.
3324              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1608

   4502. In proceedings under this chapter, the superior
 court has jurisdiction to inquire into and render such judg-
 ments and make such orders as are appropriate concerning the
 status of the marriage, the custody and support of minor chil-
 dren of the marriage, the support of either party, the settle-
ment of the property rights of the parties, and the award of
 attorneys' fees and costs.
   4503. A proceeding for dissolution of the marriage or for
 legal separation shall be commenced by filing in the superior
 court a petition entitled " I n re the marriage of           and
           " which shall state whether it is a petition for the
 dissolution of the marriage or a legal separation. A copy of the
petition together with a copy of a summons in a form and con-
tent approved by the Judicial Council shall be served upon the
 other party to the marriage in the same manner as service of
papers in civil actions generally.
   4504. A responsive pleading, if any, shall be filed and
served upon the other party within 30 days of the date of the
service upon the respondent of a copy of the petition and
summons.
   4505. (a) In those counties which have established a con-
ciliation court, the petitioner shall complete and file a ques-
tionnaire approved by the Judicial Council, concurrently with
the filing of the petition.
    (b) A blank copy of the questionnaire shall be served upon
the respondent together with copies of the summons and peti-
tion. The respondent shall complete and file the questionnaire
with his responsive pleading.
    (c) The questionnaire shall be confidential and may be
used only by the court, counsel for the parties, or persons au-
thorized by the court.
   4506. A court may decree a dissolution of the marriage or
legal separation on either of the following grounds, which
shall be pleaded generally:
    (1) Irreconcilable differences, which have caused the ir-
remediable breakdown of the marriage.
    (2) Incurable insanity.
   4507. Irreconcilable differences are those grounds which are
determined by the court to be substantial reasons for not con-
tinuing the marriage and which make it appear that the mar-
riage should be dissolved.
   4508. (a) If from the evidence at the hearing and con-
tained in the confidential questionnaire, the court finds that
there are irreconcilable differences, which have caused the irre-
mediable breakdown of the marriage, it shall order the dissolu-
tion of the marriage or a legal separation. If it appears that
there is a reasonable possibility of reconciliation, the court
shall continue the proceeding for a period not to exceed 30
days. During the period of the continuance, the court may
make any order for the support and maintenance of the par-
ties, the custody, support, maintenance, and education of the
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3325

minor children of the marriage, attorney fees, and for the
preservation of the property of the parties. At any time after
the termination of such 30-day period, either party may move
for the dissolution of the marriage or a legal separation, and
the court may enter its judgment decreeing such dissolution or
separation.
    (b) The court may not render a judgment decreeing the
legal separation of the parties without the consent of both par-
ties unless one party has not made a general appearance and
the petition is one for legal separation. A judgment decreeing
the legal separation of the parties shall not bar a subsequent
judgment decreeing the dissolution of the marriage rendered
pursuant to a petition for dissolution filed by either party.
   4509. In any pleadings or proceedings for legal separation
or dissolution of marriage under this part, including deposi-
tions and discovery proceedings, evidence of specific acts of
misconduct shall be improper and inadmissible, except where
child custody is in issue and such evidence is relevant to es-
tablish that parental custody would be detrimental to the
child, or at the hearing where it is determined by the court to
be necessary to establish the existence of irreconcilable differ-
ences.
    4510. A marriage may be dissolved on the grounds of in-
curable insanity only upon proof, including competent medi-
cal or psychiatric testimony, that the insane spouse was at
the time the petition was filed, and remains, incurably insane.
    No decree granted on this ground shall relieve a spouse
from any obligation imposed by law as a result of the mar-
 riage for the support of the spouse who is incurably insane,
 and the court may make such order for support, or require a
 bond therefor, as the circumstances require.
    If the insane spouse has a general guardian or guardian of
 his person, other than the spouse bringing the action, the peti-
 tion and summons shall be served upon the insane spouse and
 such guardian and he shall defend and protect the interests of
 the insane spouse. If the insane spouse has no general guardian
 or no guardian of his person, or if the spouse bringing the
 action is the general guardian or guardian of his person, the
 court shall appoint a guardian ad litem, who may be the dis-
 trict attorney or the county counsel, if any, to defend and pro-
 tect the interests of the insane spouse. If a district attorney
 or county counsel is appointed guardian ad litem pursuant to
 this paragraph, his successor in the office of district attorney
 or county counsel, as the case may be, succeeds him as guard-
 ian ad litem, without further action by the court or parties.
    4511. No decree of dissolution can be granted upon the
  default of one of the parties or upon any statement or finding
  of fact made by a referee; but the court must, in addition to
  any statement or finding of the referee, require proof of the
 grounds alleged, and such proof, if not taken before the
3326              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r^h   1608

court, shall be by affidavit or declaration under penalty of per-
jury.
   4512. I n actions for dissolution of the marriage, the court
must file its decision and conclusions of law as in other cases,
and if it determines that no dissolution shall be granted, final
judgment must therefore only be entered accordingly. If it
determines that a dissolution ought to be granted, an inter-
locutory judgment must be entered declaring that the parties
are entitled to have their marriage dissolved. After the entry
of the interlocutory judgment, neither party shall have the
right to dismiss the action without the consent of the other.
   4513. In cases in which the court has determined that a
decree of dissolution ought to be granted, but by mistake,
negligence or inadvertence, the interlocutory judgment has
not been signed, filed and entered, the court may cause the
interlocutory judgment to be signed, dated, filed and entered
therein as of the date when the same could have been signed,
dated, filed and entered originally; provided, however, that
it shall appear to the satisfaction of the court that no appeal
is to be taken in the action or motion made for a new trial,
to annul or set aside the judgment or for relief under Chapter
 8 (commencing with Section 469) of Title 6 of Part 2 of the
 Code of Civil Procedure. Such action may be taken by the
 court on its own motion or upon the motion of either party
thereto. In contested cases, the motion of a party shall be with
notice to the other party. The court may cause such interlocu-
tory judgment to be entered nunc pro tunc as aforesaid, even
though an interlocutory judgment or final judgment or both
judgments may have been previously entered, where by mis-
take, negligence or inadvertence the interlocutory judgment
was not entered as soon as it could have been entered under
the law if applied for. Upon the entry of such interlocutory
judgment, the parties shall have the same rights to a final
judgment that they would have had, had the interlocutory
judgment been entered upon the date when it could have been
entered originally.
   4514. When an interlocutory judgment has been entered
pursuant to Section 4512, and six months have expired from
the date of service of a copy of summons and complaint, or
the date of appearance of the respondent, the court on mo-
tion of either party, or upon its own motion, may enter the final
judgment dissolving the marriage, and such final judgment
shall restore them to the status of single persons, and permit
either to marry after the entry thereof; and such other and
further relief as may be necessary to complete disposition of
the action, but if any appeal is taken from the interlocutory
judgment or motion for a new trial made, final judgment shall
not be entered until such motion or appeal has been finally dis-
posed of, nor then, if the motion has been granted or judg-
ment reversed. The death of either party after the entry of the
interlocutory judgment does not impair the power of the court
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3327

to enter final judgment as hereinbefore provided; but such
entry shall not validate any marriage contracted by either
party before the entry of such final judgment, nor constitute
any defense of any criminal prosecution made against either.
   4515. Whenever either of the parties in a proceeding for
dissolution of the marriage is, under the law, entitled to a final
judgment, but by mistake, negligence or inadvertence the same
has not been signed, filed and entered, if no appeal has been
taken from the interlocutory judgment or motion made for
a new trial to annul or set aside the judgment or for relief
under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 469) of Title 6 of
P a r t 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court, on the motion
of either party thereto or upon its own motion, may cause a
final judgment to be signed, dated, filed and entered therein
granting the divorce as of the date when the same could have
been given or made by the court if applied for. The court may
cause such final judgment to be signed, dated, filed and en-
tered nunc pro tunc as aforesaid, even though a final judgment
may have been previously entered where by mistake, negli-
gence or inadvertence the same has not been signed, filed or
entered as soon as it could have been entered under the law
if applied for. Upon the filing of such final judgment, the
parties to such action shall be deemed to have been restored
to the status of single persons as of the date affixed to such
judgment, and any marriage of either of such parties subse-
quent to six months after the date of service of a copy of the
summons and petition upon, or appearance by, the respondent
spouse, as shown by the minutes of the court, and after the
final judgment could have been entered under the law if
 applied for, such shall be valid for all purposes as of the date
 affixed to such final judgment, upon the filing thereof.
    4516. During the pendency of any proceeding under Title
3 (commencing with Section 4500) or Title 4 (commencing
with Section 4600) of this part, the superior court may order
 the husband or wife, or father or mother, as the case may be,
 to pay any amount that is necessary for the support and main-
 tenance of the wife or husband and for the support, mainte-
 nance, and education of the children, as the case may be. An
 order made pursuant to this section shall not prejudice the
 rights of the parties or children with respect to any subsequent
 order which may be made. Any such order may be modified or
 revoked at any time except as to any amount that may have
 accrued prior to the date of filing of the notice of motion or
 order to show cause to modify or revoke.
    4517. In any proceeding under Chapter 1 (commencing
 with Section 4400) or Chapter 2 (commencing with Section
 4425) of Title 2 of this part or under this chapter, upon a
 determination that payment of an obligation of a party would
 benefit either party or a minor child, the court may order one
 of the parties to pay the obligation, or any portion thereof,
 directly to the creditor. 'The creditor shall have no right to
    105—1954
3328                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                TQ^. 1608

 enforce the order nor shall his rights be affected by such
 determination.
    4518. During the pendency of any proceeding under Chap-
 ter 1 (commencing with Section 4400) or Chapter 2 (commenc-
 ing with Section 4425) of Title 2 of this part, or under this
 chapter, upon application of either party in the manner pro-
 vided by Section 527 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the supe-
 rior court may issue ex parte orders (1) restraining any person
 from transferring, encumbering, hypothecating, concealing, or
 in any way disposing of any property, real or personal,
 whether community, quasi-community, or separate, except in
 the usual course of business or for the necessities of life, and if
 such order is directed against a party, requiring him to notify
 the other party of any proposed extraordinary expenditures
 and to account to the court for all such extraordinary expendi-
 tures; (2) enjoining any party from molesting or disturbing
 the peace of the other party; (3) excluding either party from
 the family dwelling or from the dwelling of the other upon a
 showing that physical or emotional harm would otherwise re-
 sult, as provided in Section 5102; and (4) determining the
 temporary custody of any minor children of the marriage.
   4519. The court may, when it considers it necessary in the
 interests of justice and the persons involved, direct the trial
 of any issue of fact joined in proceedings under this title to
be private, and may exclude all persons except the officers of
the court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel.
   4520. Any evidence collected by eavesdropping in violation
of Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 630) of Title 15 of
Part 1 of the Penal Code is inadmissible in any proceeding for
 dissolution of the marriage or legal separation or for a decla-
ration of void or voidable marriage. If it appears that such a
violation exists, the court may refer the matter to the proper
authority for investigation and prosecution.
   4521. In any proceeding under this part, except an action
for legal separation, the court may restore the maiden or for-
mer name of the wife regardless of whether or not a request
therefor was included in the petition.

           CHAPTEB 2.      PROVISIONS FOK ATTORNEYS '
                         F E E S AND COSTS

  4525. (a) During the pendency of any proceeding under
this part, the court may order the husband or wife, or father or
mother, as the case may be, to pay such amount as may be rea-
sonably necessary for the cost of maintaining or defending the
proceeding and for attorneys' fees; and from time to time and
before entry of judgment, the court may augment or modify
the original award for costs and attorneys' fees as may be
reasonably necessary for the prosecution or defense of the
proceeding or any proceeding relating thereto. In respect to
services rendered or costs incurred after the entry of judg-
ment, the court may award such costs and attorneys' fees as
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3329

may be reasonably necessary to maintain or defend any sub-
sequent proceeding therein, and may thereafter augment or
modify any award so made. Attorneys' fees and costs within
the provisions of this subdivision may be awarded for legal
services rendered or costs incurred prior, as well as subse-
quent, to the commencement of the proceeding.
   (b) During the pendency of any proceeding under this
part, an application for a temporary order making, augment-
ing, or modifying an award of attorneys' fees or costs or both
shall be made by motion on notice or by an order to show
cause, except that it may be made without notice by an oral
motion in open court:
   (1) At the time of the hearing of the cause on the merits; or
   (2) At any time prior to entry of judgment against a party
whose default has been entered pursuant to Section 585 or
586 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
  4526. "When the court orders one of the parties to pay
costs and attorneys' fees, such costs and fees may, in the dis-
cretion of the court, be made payable in whole or in p a r t to
the attorney entitled thereto. An order of the court providing
for payment of such costs and fees may be enforced directly
by such attorney in his own name or by the party in whose
behalf such order was made, provided that if such attorney
has ceased to be such, it shall be a condition of such enforce-
ment, and must appear of record, that such attorney shall
have given to his former client or successor counsel 10 days'
written notice of his application for such enforcement, and
during such period the client may file in such proceeding a
motion directed to such former attorney for partial or total
reallocation of fees and costs to cover the services and cost of
successor counsel, in which event such proceeding shall be
stayed until the court has resolved such motion.

            CHAPTER 3.     RESIDENCE REQUIREMENTS

   4530. (a) A judgment decreeing the dissolution of a mar-
riage may not be entered unless one of the parties to the
marriage has been a resident of this state for six months and
of the county in which the proceeding is filed for three months
next preceding the filing of the petition.
   (b) In any proceeding for legal separation in which neither
party, at the time such proceeding was commenced, has com-
plied with the residence requirements of subdivision ( a ) ,
either party may, upon complying with such residence require-
ments, amend his petition or responsive pleading in such pro-
ceeding to request that a judgment decreeing the dissolution
of the marriage be entered and the date of the filing of such
amended petition or pleading shall be deemed to be the date
of commencement of the proceeding for the dissolution of the
marriage for the purposes only of the residence requirements
3330              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qh. 1608

of subdivision (a). Notice of such amendment shall be given
to the other party in the manner provided by rules adopted
by the Judicial Council.
  4531. I n proceedings for a dissolution of marriage neither
the domicile nor residence of the husband shall be deemed
to be the domicile or residence of the wife. For the purpose
of such proceeding each may have a separate domicile or
residence depending upon proof of the fact and not upon
legal presumptions.
          CHAPTER 4. ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS,
                    ORDERS, AND DECREES

  4540. Any judgment, order, or decree of the court made or
entered pursuant to this part may be enforced by the court
by execution, attachment, the appointment of a receiver, con-
tempt, or by such other order or orders as the court in its
discretion may from time to time deem necessary.

           TITLE 4.     CUSTODY OF CHILDREN
   4600. In any proceeding where there is at issue the custody
of a minor child, the court may, during the pendency of the
proceeding, or at any time thereafter, make such order for the
custody of such child during his minority as may seem neces-
sary or proper. If a child is of sufficient age and capacity to
reason so as to form an intelligent preference as to custody,
the court shall consider and give due weight to his wishes in
making an award of custody or modification thereof. Custody
should be awarded in the following order of preference:
   (a) To either parent according to the best interests of the
child, but, other things being equal, custody shall be given to
the mother if the child is of tender years.
   (b) To the person or persons in whose home the child has
been living in a wholesome and stable environment.
   (c) To any other person or persons deemed by the court to
be suitable and able to provide adequate and proper care and
guidance for the child.
  Before the court makes any order awarding custody to a
person or persons other than a parent, without the consent of
the parents, it must make a finding that an award of custody
to a parent would be detrimental to the child, and the award
to a nonparent is required to serve the best interests of the
child. Allegations that parental custody would be detrimental
to the child, other than a statement of that ultimate fact, shall
not appear in the pleadings. The court may, in its discretion,
exclude the public from the hearing on this issue.
   4601. Reasonable visitation rights shall be awarded to a
parent unless it is shown that such visitation would be detri-
mental to the best interests of the child. I n the discretion of
the court, reasonable visitation rights may be granted to any
other person having an interest in the welfare of the child.
                    1 9 6 9 RHG
Ch. 1608]                         ULAR SESSION              333^

   4602. I n any proceeding under this part, when so directed
hy the court, the probation officer or domestic relations investi-
gator shall conduct a custody investigation and file a written
report thereon, which report may be considered by the court
and shall be made available to all interested parties or their
attorneys at least 10 days before any hearing regarding the
custody of a child. Such report may be received in evidence
upon stipulation of all interested parties.
   4603. Without filing a petition pursuant to Section 4503,
husband or wife may bring an action for the exclusive custody
of the children of the marriage. The court may, during the
pendency of such action, or at the final hearing thereof, or
afterwards, make such order or decree in regard to the sup-
port, care, custody, education and control of the children of
the marriage as may be just and in accordance with the nat-
ural rights of the parents and the best interests of the children.
Such order or decree may be modified or revoked at any time
thereafter as the natural rights of the parties and the best
interests of the children may require.

            TITLE 5.     SUPPORT OF CHILDREN
  4700. (a) In any proceeding where there is at issue the
support of a minor child, the court may order either or both
parents to pay any amount necessary for the support, mainte-
nance, and education of the child. Upon a showing of good
cause, the court may order the parent or parents required to
make such payment of support to give reasonable security
therefor. Any order for child support may be modified or re-
voked as the court may deem necessary, except as to any
amount that may have accrued prior to the date of the filing
of the notice of motion or order to show cause to modify or
revoke. The order of modification or revocation shall be made
retroactive to the date of filing of the notice of motion or order
to show cause to modify or revoke.
   (b) When a court orders a person to make specified pay-
ments for support of a child during the child's minority, or
until such child is married or otherwise emancipated, the lia-
bility of such person terminates upon the happening of such
contingency. If the custodial parent or other person having
physical custody of the child, to whom payments are to be
made, fails to notify the person ordered to make such pay-
ments, or the attorney of record of such person, of the hap-
pening of such contingency, and continues to accept support
payments, such person must refund any and all moneys re-
ceived which accrued after the happening of such contingency,
except that such overpayments must first be applied to any and
all support payments which are then in default. The court
may, in the original order for support, order the custodial
parent or other person to whom payments are to be made to
notify the person ordered to make such payments, or his at-
torney of record, of the happening of such contingency.
3332               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQ}^ \QQg

   (c) In the event obligations for support of a child are dis-
charged in bankruptcy, the court may make all proper orders
for the support, maintenance and education of such child, as
the court may deem just.
   4701. In any proceeding where the court has ordered
either or both parents to pay any amount for the support of a
minor child, the court may order either parent or both parents
to assign to the county clerk, probation officer, or other officer
of the court or county officer designated by the court to receive
such payment, that portion of salary or wages of either par-
ent due or to be due in the future as will be sufficient to pay
the amount ordered by the court for the support, maintenance
and education of the minor child. Such order shall constitute
the assignment and be binding upon an employer upon the
service of a copy of such order upon such employer and until
further order of the court. The employer may deduct the sum
of one dollar ($1) for each payment made pursuant to such
order. Any such order may be modified or revoked at any time
by the court. Any such assignment made pursuant to court
order shall have priority as against any attachment, execution,
or other assignment, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
   4702. (a) In any proceeding where a court makes or has
made an order requiring payment of child support to a parent
receiving welfare moneys for the maintenance of minor chil-
dren, the court shall direct that payments of support be made
to the county clerk, probation officer, or other officer of
the court or county officer designated by the court for such
purpose, and shall direct the district attorney to appear on
behalf of such welfare recipient in any proceeding to enforce
such order.
    (b) In any proceeding where a court makes or has made
an order requiring payment of child support to a former
spouse having custody of any minor children of the marriage,
the court may direct that payments thereof be made to the
county clerk, probation officer, or other officer of the court or
county officer designated by the court for such purpose, and
may direct the district attorney to appear on behalf of such
minor children in any action to enforce such order. The court
shall include in its order any service charge imposed under the
authority of Section 580.5 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
    (c) Expenses of the county clerk, probation officer, or other
officer of the court or county officer designated by the court,
and expenses of the district attorney incurred in the enforce-
ment of any order of the type described in subdivision (a) or
 (b), shall be a charge upon the county where the proceedings
are pending. Any fees for service of process in the enforce-
ment of any such order shall be a charge upon the county
where the process is served.
   4703. When a parent has the duty to provide for the sup-
port, maintenance, or education of his child and willfully fails
to so provide, either parent, or the child by his guardian
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3333

ad litem, may bring an action in the superior court against the
errant parent for the support, maintenance, or education of
the child.
  TITLE 6.    PROPERTY R I G H T S OF THE PARTIES
   4800. The court shall, either (a) in its interlocutory judg-
ment decreeing the dissolution of the marriage or in its judg-
ment decreeing the legal separation of the parties, or (b) at
a later time, if the division of property is in issue and it ex-
pressly reserves jurisdiction to make such a property division,
divide the community property and the quasi-community prop-
erty of the parties equally. The equal division provisions of
this section shall not prevent the court:
   (1) "Where economic circumstances warrant, from awarding
any asset to one party on such conditions as the court deems
proper to effect a substantially equal division of the property;
   (2) By way of an additional award or offset against existing
property from awarding from a party's share any sum the
court determines to have been deliberately misappropriated by
such party to the exclusion of the community property or
quasi-community property interest of the other party.
   Community property personal injury damages shall be as-
signed to the party who suffered the injuries unless the court,
after taking into account the economic condition and needs of
each party, the time that has elapsed since the recovery of the
damages, and all other facts of the case, determines that the
interests of justice require another disposition, in which case
the community property personal injury damages shall be
assigned to the respective parties in such proportions as the
court determines to be just under the facts of the case. As
used in this section, "community property personal injury
damages" means all money or other property received by a
married person as community property in satisfaction of a
judgment for damages for his or her personal injuries or
pursuant to an agreement for the settlement or compromise
of a claim for such damages, unless such money or other
property has been commingled with other community property.
  •4801. (a) In any judgment decreeing the dissolution of a
marriage or a legal separation of the parties, the court may
order a party to pay for the support of the other party any
amount, and for such period of time, as the court may deem
just and reasonable having regard for the circumstances of
the respective parties, including the duration of the marriage,
and the ability of the supported spouse to engage in gainful
employment without interfering with the interests of the 'chil-
dren of the parties in the custody of such spouse. The court
may order the party required to make such payment of support
to give reasonable security therefor. Any order for support of
the other party may be modified or revoked as the court may
deem necessary, except as to any amount that may have ac-
crued prior to the date of the filing of the notice of motion or
3334              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              TQJj J 6 0 8

order to show cause to modify or revoke. The order of modifi-
cation or revocation may be made retroactive to the date of
filing of the notice of motion or order to show cause to modify
or revoke.
    (b) Except as otherwise agreed by the parties in writing,
the obligation of any party under any order or judgment for
the support and maintenance of the other party shall termi-
nate upon the death of the obligor or upon the remarriage of
the other party.
    (c) Except as otherwise agreed by the parties in writing,
the court may, upon petition of either party, modify or revoke
any decree or judgment granting any allowance to the other
party upon proof that the wife is living with another man
and holding herself out as his wife, although not married to
such man, or that the husband is living with another woman
and holding himself out as her husband, although not mar-
ried to such woman, except as to any amount that may have
accrued prior to the filing of the petition.
   -(d) When a court orders a person to make specified pay-
ments for support of the other party for a contingent period
of time, the liability of such person terminates upon the hap-
pening of such contingency. If the party to whom payments
are to be made fails to notify the person ordered to make such
payments, or the attorney of record of such person, of the hap-
pening of such contingency and continues to accept support
payments, such party shall refund any and all moneys re-
ceived which accrued after the happening of such contingency,
except that such overpayments shall first be applied to any
and all support payments which are then in default. The court
may, in the original order for support, order the party to
whom payments are to be made to notify the person ordered
to make such payments, or his attorney of record, of the hap-
pening of such contingency.
    (e) An order for payment of an allowance for the support
of one of the parties shall terminate at the end of the period
specified in the order and shall not be extended unless the
court in its original order retains jurisdiction.
   4802. Except as provided in Section 4811 or subdivision
(b) of Section 4801, a husband and wife cannot, by any con-
tract with each other, alter their legal relations, except as to
property, and except that they may agree, in writing, to an
immediate separation, and may make provision for the sup-
port of either of them and of their children during such
separation or upon the dissolution of their marriage. The
mutual consent of the parties is a sufficient consideration for
such an agreement.
   4803. As used in this part, "quasi-community property"
means all personal property wherever situated and all real
property situated in this state heretofore or hereafter ac-
quired as follows:
    (a) By either spouse while domiciled elsewhere which
would have been community property had the spouse acquir-
                      1969
Ch. 1608]                    REGULAR SESSION                    3335

ing the property been domiciled in this state at the time of
its acquisition.
    (b) In exchange for real or personal property, wherever
situated, acquired other than by gift, devise, bequest or de-
scent by either spouse during the marriage while domiciled
elsewhere.
   For the purposes of this section, personal property does not
include and real property does include leasehold interests in
real property.
   4804. As used in this title and Section 5132, "separate
property" does not include quasi-community property.
   4805. In the enforcement of any decree, judgment or order
rendered pursuant to the provisions of this part, the court
must resort:
    (a) To the community property,- then,
    (b) To the quasi-community property; then,
    (c) To the separate property of the party required to make
such payments.
   4806. When either party in a proceeding under this p a r t
has either a separate estate, or is earning his or her own
livelihood, or there is community property or quasi-community
property sufficient to give him or her proper support, or if
the custody of the children has been awarded to the other
party, who is supporting them, the court may withhold any
allowance to him out of the separate property of the other
party. "Where there are no children, and either party has a
separate estate sufficient for his or her proper support, no
allowance shall be made from the separate estate of the other
party.
   4807. The community property, the quasi-community prop-
erty and the separate property may be subjected to the support,
maintenance, and education of the children in such propor-
tions as the court deems just.
   4808. In any judgment decreeing the dissolution of the
marriage or the legal separation of the parties, the court shall
assign the homestead as follows:
    (a) If a homestead has been selected from the community
property or the quasi-community property, it may be as-
signed either absolutely or for a limited period to either p a r t y ,
subject, in the latter case, to the future disposition of the
court, or it may, in the discretion of the court, be divided,
or be sold and the proceeds divided.
    (b) If the homestead has been selected from the separate
property of either, it shall be assigned to the former owner
of such property, subject to the power of the court to assign
it to the other party for a limited period not to exceed t h e
life of such party.
    (c) This section shall not limit the power of the court t o
make temporary assignment of the homestead at any stage of
the proceedings.
 3336              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQJj IQQg

     (d) Whenever necessary to carry out the purpose of this
  section, the court may order a partition or sale of the prop-
  erty and a division or other disposition of the proceeds.
     4809. After the entry of a final judgment decreeing the
  dissolution of the marriage or the legal separation of the par-
 ties, or after a declaration of void or voidable marriage, or
  after a permanent order in any other proceeding in which
 there was at issue the custody, support, maintenance, or educa-
 tion of a minor child, no modification of such judgment, order,
 or decree, and no subsequent order in such proceedings shall
 be valid unless any prior notice otherwise required to be given
 to a party to the proceeding be served, in such manner as such
 notice is otherwise permitted by law to be served, upon the
 party himself. For such purpose, service upon the attorney of
 record shall not be sufficient.
     4810. The disposition of the community property, of the
 quasi-community property and of the homestead, as above pro-
 vided, is subject to revision on appeal in all particulars, in-
 cluding those which are stated to be in the discretion of the
 court.
     4811. (a) The provisions of any agreement between the
 parties for child support shall be deemed to be separate and
 severable from all other provisions of such agreement relating
 to property and support of the wife or husband. All orders
 for child support shall be law-imposed and shall be made
 under the power of the court to make such orders. All such
 orders for child support, even when there has been an agree-
ment between the parties on the subject of child support
 may be modified or revoked at any time at the discretion of
the court, except as to any amount that may have accrued
prior to the date of filing of the notice of motion or order to
show cause to modify or revoke.
    (b) The provisions of any agreement for the support of
either party shall be deemed to be separate and severable
from the provisions of the agreement relating to property.
All orders for the support of either party based on such agree-
ment shall be deemed law-imposed and shall be deemed made
under the power of the court to make such orders. The provi-
sions of any agreement or order for the support of either
party shall be subject to subsequent modification or revoca-
tion by court order except as to any amount that may have
accrued prior to the date of filing of the notice of motion or
order to show cause to modify or revoke, and except to the
extent that any written agreement, or if there is no written
agreement any oral agreement entered into in open court
between the parties, specifically provides to the contrary.
    (c) This section shall be effective only with respect to prop-
erty settlement agreements entered into after the effective
date of this section, and shall not be deemed to affect agree-
ments entered into prior thereto, as to which the provisions
of Chapter 1308 of the Statutes of 1967 shall apply.
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3337

   4812. In the event obligations for support of a spouse are
discharged in bankruptcy, the court may make all proper or-
ders for the support of such spouse, as the court may deem
just, having regard for the circumstances of the respective par-
ties.

  TITLE 7. UNIFOEM DIVORCE RECOGNITION ACT

   5000. This title may be cited as the Uniform Divorce Rec-
ognition Act.
   5001. A divorce obtained in another jurisdiction shall be
of no force or effect in this state, if both parties to the mar-
riage were domiciled in this state at the time the proceeding
for the divorce was commenced.
   5002. Proof that a person hereafter obtaining a divorce
from the bonds of matrimony in another jurisdiction was (a)
domiciled in this state within 12 months prior to the com-
mencement of the proceeding therefor, and resumed residence
in this state within 18 months after the date of his departure
therefrom, or (b) at all times after his departure from this
state and until his return maintained a place of residence
within this state, shall be prima facie evidence that the per-
son was domiciled in this state, when the divorce proceeding
was commenced.
   5003. This title shall be so interpreted and construed as to
effectuate its general purpose to make uniform the law of
those states which enact it.
   5004. The application of this title is limited by the re-
quirement of the Constitution of the United States that full
faith and credit shall be given in each state to the public acts,
records, and judicial proceedings of every other state.

            TITLE 8.       HUSBAND AND W I P E

   5100. Husband and wife contract toward each other ob-
ligations of mutual respect, fidelity, and support.
   5101. The husband is the head of the family. He may
choose any reasonable place or mode of living, and the wife
must conform thereto.
   5102. Neither husband nor wife has any interest in the
property of the other, but neither can be excluded from the
other's dwelling except as provided in Section 4518 or, in
proceedings under Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4400)
or Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 4425) of Title 2 of
this part, or under Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4500)
of Title 3 of this part, upon application of either party in the
manner provided by Section 527 of the Code of Civil Proce-
dure, the court may order the temporary exclusion of either
party from the family dwelling or from the dwelling of the
other upon a showing that harm would otherwise result, until
the final determination of the proceeding.
3338               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               r Q h . ]^gQ8

   5103. Either husband or wife may enter into any engage-
ment or transaction with the other, or with any other person,
respecting property, which either might if unmarried; sub-
ject, in transactions between themselves, to the general rules
which control the actions of persons occupying confidential
relations with each other, as defined by Title 8 (commencing
with Section 2215) of P a r t 4 of Division 3.
   5104. A husband and wife may hold property as joint
tenants, tenants in common, or as community property.
   5105. The respective interests of the husband and wife in
community property during continuance of the marriage re-
lation are present, existing and equal interests under the man-
agement and control of the husband as is provided in Sections
5125 and 5127. This section shall be construed as defining the
respective interests and rights of husband and wife in commu-
nity property.
   5106. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 5105
and 5125, whenever payment or refund is made to an em-
ployee, former employee or his beneficiary or estate pursuant to
a written retirement, death or other employee benefit plan or
savings plan, such payment or refund shall fully discharge
the employer and any trustee or insurance company making
such payment or refund from all adverse claims thereto unless,
before such payment or refund is made, the employer or
former employer, where the payment is made by the employer
or former employer, has received at its principal place of
business within this state, written notice by or on behalf of
some other person that such other person claims to be entitled
to such payment or refund or some part thereof or where a
trustee or insurance company is making the payment, such
notice has been delivered by the employer to the home office
of such trustee or such insurance company or has otherwise
been received thereby. Nothing contained in this section shall
affect any claim or right to any such payment or refund or
part thereof as between all persons other than the employer
and the trustee or insurance company making such payment
or refund.
   5107. All property of the wife, owned by her before mar-
riage, and that acquired afterwards by gift, bequest, devise, or
descent, with the rents, issues, and profits thereof, is her sepa-
rate property. The wife may, without the consent of her hus-
band, convey her separate property.
   5108. All property owned by the husband before marriage,
and that acquired afterwards by gift, bequest, devise, or
descent, with the rents, issues, and profits thereof, is his sep-
arate property. The husband may, without the consent of his
wife, convey his separate property.
   5109. All money or other property paid by or on behalf
of a married person to his spouse in satisfaction of a judgment
for damages for personal injuries to the spouse or pursuant
to an agreement for the settlement or compromise of a claim
                     1969 R E G
Ch 16081                          U L A R SESSION            3339

for such damages is the separate property of the injured
spouse.
   5110. All other real property situated in this state and all
other personal property wherever situated acquired during the
marriage by a married person while domiciled in this state is
community property; but whenever any real or personal prop-
erty, or any interest therein or encumbrance thereon, is ac-
quired by a married woman by an instrument in writing, the
presumption is that the same is her separate property, and if
acquired by such married woman and any other person the
presumption is that she takes the part acquired by her, as
tenant in common, unless a different intention is expressed in
the instrument; except, that when any of such property is ac-
quired by husband and wife by an instrument in which they
are described as husband and wife, unless a different intention
is expressed in the instrument, the presumption is that such
property is the community property of said husband and wife
and that when a single family residence of a husband and wife
is acquired by them during marriage as joint tenants, for the
purpose of the division of such property upon dissolution of
marriage or legal separation only, the presumption is that
such single family residence is the community property of
said husband and wife. The presumptions in this section men-
tioned are conclusive in favor of any person dealing in good
faith and for a valuable consideration with such married
woman or her legal representatives or successors in interest,
and regardless of any change in her marital status after ac-
quisition of said property.
   I n cases where a married woman has conveyed, or shall
hereafter convey, real property which she acquired prior to
May 19, 1889, the husband, or his heirs or assigns, of such
married woman, shall be barred from commencing or main-
taining any action to show that the real property was com-
munity property, or to recover the real property from and
 after one year from the filing for record in the recorder's office
of such conveyances, respectively.
   As used in this section, personal property does not include
and real property does include leasehold interests in real prop-
erty.
   5111. The presumption that property acquired during
marriage is community property does not apply to any prop-
erty to which legal or equitable title is held by a person at the
time of his death if the marriage during which the property
was acquired was terminated by dissolution of marriage more
than four years prior to such death.
   5112. If a married person is injured by the negligent or
wrongful act or omission of a person other than his spouse,
the fact that the negligent or wrongful act or omission of
the spouse of the injured person was a concurring cause of
the injury is not a defense in any action brought by the
injured person to recover damages for such injury except in
3340              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              r^Jj. 1608

cases where such concurring negligent or wrongful act or
 omission would be a defense if the marriage did not exist.
   5113. (a) Where an injury to a married person is caused
in whole or in part by the negligent or wrongful act or omis-
sion of his spouse, the community property may not be used
to discharge the liability of the tortfeasor spouse to the in-
jured spouse or his liability to make contribution to any joint
tortfeasor until the separate property of the tortfeasor spouse,
not exempt from execution, is exhausted.
    (b) This section does not prevent the use of community
property to discharge a liability referred to in subdivision
 (a) if the injured spouse gives written consent thereto after
the occurrence of the injury.
    (c) This section does not affect the right to indemnity
provided by any insurance or other contract to discharge the
tortfeasor spouse's liability, whether or not the consideration
 given for such contract consisted of community property.
   5114. A full and complete inventory of the separate per-
 sonal property of either spouse may be made out and signed
by such spouse, acknowledged or proved in the manner re-
 quired by law for the acknowledgment or proof of a grant of
real property, and recorded in the office of the recorder of the
 county in which the parties reside.
   5115. The filing of the inventory in the recorder's office is
notice and prima facie evidence of the title of the party filing
such inventory.
   5116. The property of the community is not liable for the
contracts of the wife, made after marriage, unless secured by
pledge or mortgage thereof executed by the husband. Except
as otherwise provided by law, the earnings of the wife are
liable for her contracts heretofore or hereafter made before or
after marriage.
   5117. The earnings and community property personal in-
jury damages of the wife are not liable for the debts of the
husband; but, except as otherwise provided by law, such earn-
ings and damages shall be liable for the payment of debts,
heretofore or hereafter contracted by the husband or wife for
the necessities of life furnished to them or either of them
while they are living together. As used in this section, "com-
munity property personal injury damages" has the meaning
given that term by subdivision (b) of Section 4800.
   5118. The earnings and accumulations of the wife, and
of her minor children living with her or in her custody, while
she is living separate from her husband, are the separate prop-
erty of the wife.
   5119. (a) After the rendition of a judgment decreeing
legal separation of the parties, the earnings or accumulations
of each party are the separate property of the party acquiring
such earnings or accumulations.
   (b) After the rendition of an interlocutory judgment of
dissolution of a marriage and while the parties are living
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                334J

separate and apart, the earnings and accumulations of the
husband are the separate property of the husband.
   5120. Neither the separate property of the husband nor
his earnings after marriage is liable for the debts of the wife
contracted before the marriage.
   5121. The separate property of the wife is liable for her
own debts contracted before or after her marriage, but is not
liable for her husband's debts; provided, that the separate
property of the wife is liable for the payment of debts con-
tracted by the husband or wife for the necessaries of life fur-
nished to them or either of them while they are living to-
gether ; provided, that the provisions of the foregoing proviso
shall not apply to the separate property of the wife held by
her at the time of her marriage or acquired by her by devise,
succession, or gift, other than by gift from the husband, after
marriage.
   5122. (a) A married person is not liable for any injury or
damage caused by the other spouse except in cases where he
would be liable therefor if the marriage did not exist.
   (b) The liability of a married person for death or injury
to person or property may be satisfied only from the separate
property of such married person and the community property
of which he has the management and control.
   5123. The separate property of the wife is not liable for
any debt or obligation secured by a mortgage, deed of trust or
other hypothecation of the community property, unless the
wife expressly assents in writing to the liability of her sep-
arate property for such debt or obligation.
   5124. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 5105 and
5125, the wife has the management and control of the com-
munity personal property earned by her, and the community
personal property received by her in satisfaction of a judg-
ment for damages for personal injuries suffered by her or
pursuant to an agreement for the settlement or compromise
of a claim for such damages, until it is commingled with
community property subject to the management and control of
the husband, except that the husband may use such commu-
nity property received as damages or in settlement or compro-
mise of a claim for such damages to pay for expenses incurred
by reason of the wife's personal injuries and to reimburse his
separate property or the community property subject to his
management and control for expenses paid by reason of the
wife's personal injuries.
   The wife may not make a gift of the community property
under her management and control, or dispose of the same
without a valuable consideration, without the written consent
of the husband. The wife may not make a testamentary dis-
position of such community property except as otherwise per-
mitted by law.
   This section shall not be construed as making such earnings
or damages or property received in settlement or compromise
3342               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQJ^ 1 6 0 8

 of such damages the separate property of the wife, nor as
 changing the respective interests of the husband and wife in
 such community property, as denned in Section 5105.
    5125. Except as provided in Section 5128, the husband
 has the management and control of the community per-
 sonal property, with like absolute power of disposition, other
 than testamentary, as he has of his separate estate; provided,
 however, that he cannot make a gift of such community per-
 sonal property, or dispose of the same without a valuable con-
 sideration, or sell, convey, or encumber the furniture, furnish-
 ings, or fittings of the home, or the clothing or wearing apparel
 of the wife or minor children that is community, without the
 written consent of the wife.
    5126. (a) All money or other property received by a mar-
 ried person in satisfaction of a judgment for damages for Ms
 personal injuries or pursuant to an agreement for the settle-
 ment or compromise of a claim for such damages is the sep-
 arate property of the injured person if such money or other
 property is received as follows:
    (1) After the rendition of a decree of legal separation or
 interlocutory judgment of dissolution of a marriage.
    (2) While the wife, if she is the injured person, is living
 separate from her husband.
    (3) After the rendition of an interlocutory decree of judg-
 ment of dissolution of a marriage and while the injured person
 and his spouse are living separate and apart.
    (b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), if the spouse of the
 injured person has paid expenses by reason of his spouse's
 personal injuries from his separate property or from the com-
 munity property subject to his management and control, he is
 entitled to reimbursement of his separate property or the com-
munity property subject to his management and control for
 such expenses from the separate property received by his
 spouse under subdivision (a).
   5127. Except as provided in Section 5128, the husband
has the management and control of the community real
property, but the wife, either personally or by duly authorized
agent, must join with him in executing any instrument by
which such community real property or any interest therein is
leased for a longer period than one year, or is sold, conveyed, or
encumbered; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall be construed to apply to a lease, mortgage, conveyance,
or transfer of real property or of any interest in real property
between husband and wife; provided, also, however, that the
sole lease, contract, mortgage or deed of the husband, holding
the record title to community real property, to a lessee, pur-
chaser or encumbrancer, in good faith without knowledge of
the marriage relation shall be presumed to be valid. No action
to avoid any instrument mentioned in this section, affecting
any property standing of record in the name of the husband
alone, executed by the husband alone, shall be commenced after
                     1969
Ch. 1608]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3343

 the expiration of one year from the filing for record of such
 instrument in the recorder's office in the county in which the
 land is situate, and no action to avoid any instrument men-
tioned in this section, affecting any property standing of rec-
 ord in the name of the husband alone, which was executed by
 the husband alone and filed for record prior to the time this
 act takes effect, in the recorder's office in the county in which
the land is situate, shall be commenced after the expiration of
one year from the date on which this act takes effect.
   5128. Where one or both of the spouses are incompetent,
the procedure for dealing with and disposing of community
property is that prescribed in Chapter 2a (commencing
with Section 1435.1) of Division 4 of the Probate Code.
   5129. No estate is allowed the husband as tenant by cour-
tesy upon the death of his wife, nor is any estate in dower al-
lotted to the wife upon the death of her husband.
   5130. If the husband neglects to make adequate provision
for the support of his wife, except in the case mentioned
in Section 5131, any other person may in good faith, sup-
ply her with articles necessary for her support, and recover
the reasonable value thereof from the husband.
   5131. A husband is not liable for his wife's support when
she is living separate from him by agreement unless such sup-
port is stipulated in the agreement.
   5132. The wife must support the husband while they are
living together out of her separate property when he has no
separate property, and there is no community property or
quasi-community property and he is unable, from infirmity, to
support himself.
   For the purposes of this section, the terms "quasi-community
property" and "separate p r o p e r t y " have the meanings given
those terms by Sections 4803 and 4804.
   5133. The property rights of husband and wife are gov-
erned by this title, unless there is a marriage settlement con-
taining stipulations contrary thereto.
   5134. All contracts for marriage settlements must be in
writing, and executed and acknowledged or proved in like
manner as a grant of land is required to be executed and
acknowledged or proved.
   5135. "When such contract is acknowledged or proved, it
must be recorded in the office of the recorder of every county
in which any real estate may be situated which is granted or
affected by such contract.
   5136. The recording or nonrecording of such contract has
a like effect as the recording or nonrecording of a grant of real
property.
   5137. A minor capable of contracting marriage may make
a valid marriage settlement.
   5138. For the purpose of application of the laws of suc-
cession set forth in the Probate Code to a decedent who died
prior to September 11, 1958, an alliance, which by custom of
3344              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Gh. 1608

the Indian trihe, band, or group of which the parties to the
alliance, or either of them, are members is commonly recognized
in such tribe, band, or group as marriage, is deemed a valid
marriage under the laws of this state. In the case of such mar-
riages and for such purpose a separation, which by custom of
the Indian tribe, band, or group of which the separating
parties, or either of them, are members is commonly recognized
in such tribe, band, or group as a dissolution of marriage, is
deemed a valid dissolution of marriage under the laws of this
state.
   This section shall be effective and shall apply only to the
extent that such marriages or separations would affect succes-
sion to property subject to the laws of this state.
   SEC. 9. Section 125 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SBO. 10. Section 285.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   285.1. An attorney of record for any party in any civil
action or proceeding for dissolution of marriage, legal separa-
tion, or for a declaration of void or voidable marriage, or for
the support, maintenance or custody of minor children may
withdraw at any time subsequent to the time when any judg-
ment in such action or proceeding, other than an interlocutory
judgment, becomes final, and prior to service upon him of
pleadings or motion papers in any proceeding then pending
in said cause, by filing a notice of withdrawal. Such notice
shall state (a) date of entry of final decree or judgment, (b)
the last known address of such party, (c) that such attorney
withdraws as attorney for such party. A copy of such notice
shall be mailed to such party at his last known address and
shall be served upon the adverse party.
   SEC. 11. Section 395 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   395. (1) I n all other cases, except as in this section other-
wise provided, and subject to the power of the court to trans-
fer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, the county
in which the defendants, or some of them, reside at the com-
mencement of the action, is the proper county for the trial of
the action. If the action be for injury to person, or to per-
sonal property, or for death from wrongful act, or negligence,
either the county where the injury occurs, or where the injury
causing death occurs, or the county in which the defendants,
or some of them, reside at the commencement of the action,
shall be a proper county for the trial of the action. In a pro-
ceeding for dissolution of marriage, the county in which the
plaintiff has been a resident for three months next preceding
the commencement of the proceeding is the proper county for
the trial of the proceeding. When a defendant has contracted
to perform an obligation in a particular county, either the
county where such obligation is to be performed, or in which
the contract in fact was entered into, or the county in which
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3345

 the defendant, or any such defendant, resides at the com-
 mencement of the action, shall be a proper county for the
 trial of an action founded on such obligation, and the county
 in which such obligation is incurred shall be deemed to be the
 county in which it is to be performed unless there is a
 special contract in writing to the contrary. If none of the
 defendants reside in the state, or, if residing in the state,
 and the county in which they reside is unknown to the
 plaintiff, the action may be tried in any county which the
plaintiff may designate in his complaint, and if the defendant
is about to depart from the state, such action may be tried
 in any county where either of the parties reside, or where
 service is had. If any person is improperly joined as a de-
fendant, or has been made a defendant solely for the purpose
of having the action tried in the county, city and county,
or judicial district where he resides, his residence must not
be considered in determining the proper place for the trial
of the action.
    (2) The proper court for the trial of any such action in
the county hereinabove designated as the proper county, shall
be determined as follows:
    If there is a municipal or justice court, having jurisdiction
of the subject matter of the action, established in the city and
 county or judicial district, in which the defendant, or any
defendant, so resides, or in which the injury to person or to
personal property, or the injury causing death, occurs, or, in
the cases hereinabove mentioned, in which the obligation was
contracted to be performed, such court is a proper court for
the trial of such action; otherwise any court in such county,
having jurisdiction of the subject matter of the action, is a
proper court for the trial thereof.
    SEC. 12. Section 396b of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   396b. Except as otherwise provided in Section 396a, if an
action or proceeding is commenced in a court having jurisdic-
tion of the subject matter thereof, other than the court desig-
nated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under the pro-
visions of this title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried
in the court where commenced, unless the defendant, at the
time he answers or demurs, files with the clerk, or with the
judge if there be no clerk, an affidavit of merits and notice of
motion for an order transferring the action or proceeding to
the proper court, together with proof of service, upon the ad-
verse party, of a copy of such papers. Upon the hearing of
such motion the court shall, if it appears that the action or
proceeding was not commenced in the proper court, order the
same transferred to the proper court; provided, however, that
the court in a proceeding for dissolution of marriage or legal
separation, may, prior to the determination of such motion,
consider and determine motions for allowance of temporary
alimony, support of children, counsel fees and costs, and make
3346              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qh. JgQg

all necessary and proper orders in connection therewith; pro-
vided further, that in any case, if an answer be filed, the court
may consider opposition to the motions, if any, and may retain
the proceeding in the county where commenced if it appears
that the convenience of the witnesses or the ends of justice
will thereby be promoted.
   SEC. 13. Section 397 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    397. The court may, on motion, change the place of trial
in the following cases:
    1. When the court designated in the complaint is not the
proper court.
    2. When there is reason to believe that an impartial trial
cannot be had therein.
    3. When the convenience of witnesses and the ends of jus-
tice would be promoted by the change.
    4. When from any cause there is no judge of the court
qualified to act.
    5. When a proceeding for dissolution of marriage has been
filed in the county in which the petitioner has been a resident
for three months next preceding the commencement of the
proceeding, and the respondent at the time of the commence-
ment of the proceeding is a resident of another county in this
state, to the county of the respondent's residence when the
ends of justice would be promoted by the change. If a motion
to change the place of trial is made pursuant to this para-
graph, the court may, prior to the determination of such mo-
tion, consider and determine motions for allowance of tempo-
rary support of the other party and of any children of the
marriage, temporary restraining orders, attorneys' fees, and
costs, and make all necessary and proper orders in connection
therewith.
   SEC. 14. Section 426a of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   426a. In a proceeding for dissolution of marriage, legal
separation, or for a declaration of void or voidable marriage,
there shall be furnished to the county clerk by the petitioner
at the time of filing of the petition, or within 10 days there-
after and before the date of the first hearing, that informa-
tion, required to be collected by the State Registrar of Vital
Statistics, in the manner specified under Chapter 6.5 (com-
mencing with Section 10360) of Division 9 of the Health and
Safety Code. The clerk shall accept the petition for filing,
whether or not said information is then furnished. At any
time after the filing of the petition, the respondent may also
furnish such information, whether or not it has been first fur-
nished by the petitioner. The clerk shall take all ministerial
steps required of him in the proceeding, whether or not such
information has been furnished; but the clerk shall advise
the court, at the time set for any hearing, if at such time no
                    1969
Ch. 16081 *                REGULAR SESSION                 3347

 party has furnished such information. In such cases, the court
may decline to hear any matter encompassed within the pro-
ceeding if good cause for such failure to furnish information
has not been shown.
   The court's inquiry in such cases shall be confined solely
to the question of the existence of good cause for not furnish-
ing the information; and such report and the contents thereof
shall not be admissible in evidence and shall not be furnished
to the court.
   SEC. 15. Section 426b of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 426c of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   426c. In a proceeding for dissolution of marriage the pe-
tition must set forth among other matters as near as can be
ascertained the following facts:
    (1) The state or country in which the parties were married.
    (2) The date of marriage.
    (3) The date of separation.
    (4) The number of years from marriage to separation.
    (5) The number of children of the marriage, if any, and if
none a statement of that fact.
    (6) The age and birth date of each minor child of the mar-
riage.
    (7) The social security numbers of the husband and wife,
if available, and if not available, a statement to such effect.
   SEC. 18. Section 1019 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SEC. 19. Section 1761 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   1761. Prior to the filing of any proceeding for dissolution
of marriage, legal separation, or judgment of nullity of a
voidable marriage, either spouse, or both spouses, may file in
the conciliation court a petition invoking the jurisdiction of
the court for the purpose of preserving the marriage by ef-
fecting a reconciliation between the parties, or for amicable
settlement of the controversy between the spouses, so as to
avoid further litigation over the issue involved.
   SEC. 20. Section 1769 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   1769. (a) At or after hearing, the court may make such
orders in respect to the conduct of the spouses and the subject
matter of the controversy as the court deems necessary to pre-
serve the marriage or to implement the reconciliation of the
spouses, but in no event shall such orders be effective for more
than 30 days from the hearing of the petition, unless the par-
ties mutually consent to a continuation of such time.
    (b) Any reconciliation agreement between the parties may
be reduced to writing and, with the consent of the parties, a
court order may be made requiring the parties to comply fully
therewith.
3348               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            •   [Qfo ^gQ8

    (c) During the pendency of any proceeding under this
 chapter, the superior court may order the husband or wife, or
 father or mother, as the case may be, to pay any amount that
 is necessary for the support and maintenance of the wife or
 husband and for the support, maintenance, and education of
 the children, as the case may be. An order made pursuant to
 this subdivision shall not prejudice the rights of the parties or
 children with respect to any subsequent order which may be
 made. Any such order may be modified or revoked at any time
 except as to any amount that may have accrued prior to the
 date of filing of the notice of motion or order to show cause to
 modify or revoke.
    SEC. 21. Section 1770 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
    1770. During a period beginning upon the filing of the
 petition for conciliation and continuing until 30 days after
 the hearing of the petition for conciliation, neither spouse
 shall file any petition for dissolution of marriage, legal sepa-
 ration, or judgment of nullity of a voidable marriage.
    If, however, after the expiration of such period, the contro-
versy between the spouses has not been terminated, either
 spouse may institute proceedings for dissolution of marriage,
 legal separation, or judgment of a nullity of a voidable mar-
 riage. The pendency of a proceeding for dissolution of mar-
riage, legal separation, or declaration of nullity shall not
 operate as a bar to the instituting of proceedings for concili-
ation under this chapter.
    SEC. 22. Section 1771 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
    1771. Whenever any petition for dissolution of marriage,
legal separation, or declaration of nullity of a voidable mar-
riage is filed in the superior court, and it appears to the court
at any time during the pendency of the proceeding that there
is any minor child of the spouses or of either of them whose
welfare may be adversely affected by the dissolution of the
marriage or the disruption of the household, and that there
appears to be some reasonable possibility of a reconciliation
being effected, the case may be transferred to the conciliation
court for proceedings for reconciliation of the spouses or ami-
cable settlement of issues in controversy, in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   SEC. 23. Section 1772 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   1772. Whenever application is made to the conciliation
court for conciliation proceedings in respect to a controversy
between spouses, or a contested proceeding for dissolution of
marriage, legal separation, or judgment of nullity of a void-
able marriage, but there is no minor child whose welfare may
be affected by the results of the controversy, and it appears to
the court that reconciliation of the spouses or amicable adjust-
ment of the controversy can probably be achieved, and that
                     19<59
Ch. 16081                    REGULAR   SESSION               334!)

 the work of the court in cases involving children will not be
seriously impeded by acceptance of the case, the court may
accept and dispose of the case in the same manner as similar
cases involving the welfare of children are disposed of. I n
the event of such application and acceptance, the court shall
have the same jurisdiction over the controversy and the parties
thereto or having any relation thereto that it has under this
chapter in similar cases involving the welfare of children.
    SEC. 24. Section 26859 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
    26859. The fee for the filing of the vital statistics informa-
tion required to be collected under Chapter 6.5 (commencing
with Section 10360) of Division 9 of the Health and Safety
 Code is two dollars ($2), and shall be paid at the time of filing
of each petition for a dissolution of marriage, judgment of
nullity, or legal separation. In any action for divorce, annul-
ment or separate maintenance, in which the complaint was
filed before January 1, 1966, and which has not resulted in
final judgment before such date, the filing fee of two dollars
 ($2) shall be paid before final judgment is entered.
    The county clerk by the 10th day of each month shall pay to
the State Begistrar of Vital Statistics one-half of all such fees
collected during the immediately preceding month. The State
Registrar of Vital Statistics shall transmit such sums to the
State Treasurer for deposit in the General Fund.
    SEC. 25. Section 10360 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
    10360. The following reports shall be filed with the State
Registrar upon forms prescribed and furnished by the State
Registrar and in the manner prescribed under this division.
    (1) A preliminary report when filing a petition in a pro-
ceeding for dissolution of marriage, declaration of void or
voidable marriage, or legal separation.
    (2) Certificate of registry of judgments decreeing the dis-
solution of marriage or legal separation, decrees of declara-
tion of void or voidable marriage, or a dismissal.
   SEC. 26. Section 10361 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
    10361. (a) The information required to be filed under this
chapter in proceedings for dissolution of marriage, judgment
of nullity, or legal separation shall not be open to public
inspection in the offices of the State Registrar or the county
clerk. Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude
qualified persons with a valid educational or scientific research
interest from having access to the records and the information
included thereon, upon approval of the office of the State
Registrar of Vital Statistics and without substantial cost to
the state or local offices concerned.
    (b) All information and reports required to be filed and
prepared under the authority of this division shall be made
available to any duly constituted legislative committee of the
State Legislature upon the request of such committee.
3350               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                rQn   1608

     (c) No person who obtains access to any information re-
 quired to be furnished by this chapter shall disclose any such
 information in any manner which would permit identification
of any party in any greater detail than authorized for public
 distribution by the State Registrar under Section 10362.
    SEC. 27. Section 10362 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
    10362. I n addition to the general requirements of this divi-
 sion, the State Registrar shall conduct and cooperate in con-
 ducting such research and study and prepare and publish such
 reports and information as are necessary to appropriately re-
 port the facts which are required to be furnished under au-
 thority of this chapter relative to the subject of proceedings
for dissolution of marriage, judgment of nullity, or legal sepa-
ration.
    SEC. 28. Section 10363 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
    10363. I t shall be the duty of the petitioner in any such
 proceeding to furnish the required information in the pre-
 scribed manner to the county clerk at the time of filing his
 petition, or within 10 days thereafter and before the date of the
 first hearing.
    SEC. 29. Section 10364 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
    10364. The preliminary report shall contain insofar as can
 be determined and ascertained the following information:
     (a) Type of petition, county in which the proceeding is filed,
case number and date filed.
     (b) For husband and wife—full name (maiden name of
wife), date of birth, present address, length of stay in Cali-
fornia, birthplace, occupation, highest school grade completed,
color or race, religious denomination, number of previous mar-
riages and how dissolved.
    (c) Place and date of marriage.
    (d) Names, birthplaces and dates of birth of living children
 (born or adopted) of this marriage.
    (e) Place and date of separation.
    (f) Certification of above facts by petitioner.
    (g) Name and address of attorney for petitioner,
    (h) Certification of the county clerk.
    SEC. 30. Section 10365 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
    SEC. 31. Section 10366 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
    10366. The record of the clerk of the court and the certifi-
cate of registry of the judgment decreeing the dissolution of
the marriage or legal separation of the parties, or the decree of
declaration of nullity, or dismissal shall include, in addition
to information specified in Section 10364, the type of judg-
ment or decree, the date it was entered, and the date of entry
of the interlocutory decree, if any.
                    1969
Ch. 16091                  REGULAR SESSION                  3351

    SEC. 32. Section 10368 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
    10368. The county clerk shall transmit to the State Regis-
 trar on or before the fifth day of each month the preliminary
 reports of petitions for dissolution of marriage or legal sepa-
 ration, and petitions for declaration of void or voidable mar-
 riage, accepted for filing by him during the previous month.
    SEC. 33. Section 10369 of the Health and Safety Code is
 amended to read:
    10369. The county clerk shall transmit to the State Regis-
 trar on or before the fifth day of each month the certificates
 of registry of judgments decreeing dissolution of marriage or
legal separation, judgments of nullity, and judgments of dis-
missal in all such proceedings entered by him the previous
month.
    SEC. 34. Section 10370 of the Health and Safety Code is
repealed.
    SEC. 35. Section 10371 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
    10371. "Where a final decree of dissolution of marriage or a
judgment of nullity is vacated, the county clerk shall complete
a report to this effect to the State Registrar, who shall file
such report with the final decree dissolving the marriage or
the decree of nullity or void marriage.
   SEC. 36. Section 740.1 of the "Welfare and Institutions Code
is repealed.
   S E C 37. This act shall become operative on January 1,
1970, and shall apply to all actions and proceedings filed prior
thereto with respect to issues on which an interlocutory judg-
ment has not been entered or denied in the action, or, if the
action is not one in which an interlocutory judgment may be
entered, with respect to issues on which a judgment has not
been entered, to all proceedings for modification of a judgment
or order, and to all actions and proceedings filed on or after
January 1, 1970. In any action or proceeding in which an
interlocutory judgment or any other judgment has been en-
tered or a new trial has been granted prior to the operative
date of this act, the law in effect at the time of entry of such
judgment or order granting a new trial shall govern any sub-
sequent trial or appeal. Pending actions for dissolution of mar-
riage or legal separation based on grounds other than incurable
insanity shall be deemed to be on the ground of irreconcilable
differences and the evidence adduced after the operative date
of this act shall be in compliance with this act.


                       CHAPTER 1609
An act to amend Sections 172, 172a, and 182 of, to amend
  Sections 4425, 4450, 4454, 4500, 4502, 4503, 4505, 4509, 4511,
  4514, 4517, 4519, 4526, 4602, 4701, 5102, 5125, 5127, and
3352              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   TQ^ 1 6 0 9

  5138, as enacted by Senate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular
  Session, of, to add Sections 164.8, 4429, and 5113.5 to, and
  to repeal Section 149 of, the Civil Code, to amend Section
  396b of the Code of Civil Procedure, and to amend Section
  37 of Senate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session,
  relating to domestic relations.
         [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION    1. Section 149 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 2. Section 164.8 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
   164.8. Where community property, before or after the
effective date of this section, is transferred by the husband and
wife to a trust, regardless of the identity of the trustee, which
trust originally or as amended prior or subsequent to such
transfer (a) is revocable in whole or in part during their joint
lives, (b) provides that the property after transfer to the trust
and any withdrawal therefrom shall be and remain their com-
munity property, (c) grants the trustee during their joint lives
powers no more extensive than those possessed by a husband
under Section 172, except as to property described in Section
171c respecting which the trustee's powers shall be no more
extensive than those possessed by a wife under Section 171c,
and (d) is subject to amendment or alteration during their
joint lifetime upon their joint consent, the respective interest
of each spouse in such trust shall be community property,
unless the trust otherwise expressly provides. Nothing in this
section shall be deemed to affect community property which,
before or after the effective date of this section, is transferred
in a manner other than as described in this section or to a
trust containing different provisions than those set forth in
this section; nor shall this section be construed to prohibit the
trustee from conveying any trust property, real or personal, in
accordance with the provisions of the trust without the consent
of the husband or wife unless the trust expressly requires the
consent of one or both spouses.
   SEC. 3. Section 172 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   172. Except as provided in Sections 164.8, 171c, and 172b,
the husband has the management and control of the community
personal property, with like absolute power of disposition,
other than testamentary, as he has of his separate estate; pro-
vided, however, that he cannot make a gift of such community
personal property, or dispose of the same without a valuable
consideration, or sell, convey, or encumber the furniture, fur-
nishings, or fittings of the home, or the clothing or wearing
apparel of the wife or minor children that is community,
without the written consent of the wife.
   SEC. 4. Section 172a of the Civil Code is amended to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1609]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3353

   172a. Except as provided in Sections 164.8 and 172b, the
husband has the management and control of the community
real property, but the wife, either personally or by duly au-
thorized agent, must join with him in executing any instrument
by which such community real property or any interest therein
is leased for a longer period than one year, or is sold, conveyed,
or encumbered,- provided, however, that nothing herein con-
tained shall be construed to apply to a lease, mortgage, con-
veyance, or transfer of real property or of any interest in real
property between husband and wife; provided, also, however,
that the sole lease, contract, mortgage or deed of the husband,
holding the record title to community real property, to a lessee,
purchaser or encumbrancer, in good faith without knowledge
of the marriage relation shall be presumed to be valid. No
action to avoid any instrument mentioned in this section, affect-
ing any property standing of record in the name of the hus-
band alone, executed by the husband alone, shall be commenced
after the expiration of one year from the filing for record of
such instrument in the recorder's office in the county in which
the land is situate, and no action to avoid any instrument men-
tioned in this section, affecting any property standing of record
in the name of the husband alone, which was executed by the
husband alone and filed for record prior to the time this act
takes effect, in the recorder's office in the county in which the
land is situate, shall be commenced after the expiration of one
year from the date on which this act takes effect.
   SEC. 5. Section 182 of the Civil Code is amended to r e a d :
   182. For the purpose of application of the laws of succes-
sion set forth in the Probate Code to a decedent, and for the
purpose of determining the validity of a marriage under the
laws of this state, an alliance entered into prior to 1958, which,
by custom of the Indian tribe, band, or group of which the
parties to the alliance, or either of them, are members, is com-
monly recognized in such tribe, band, or group as marriage,
is deemed a valid marriage under the laws of this state. I n the
case of such marriages and for such purpose a separation,
which, by custom of the Indian tribe, band, or group of which
the separating parties, or either of them, are members, is com-
monly recognized in such tribe, band, or group as a dissolution
of marriage, is deemed a valid divorce under the laws of t h i s
state.
   SEC. 6. Section 4425 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4425. A marriage is voidable and may be adjudged a n u l -
lity if any of the following conditions existed at the time of
the marriage:
   (a) The party who commences the proceeding or on whose
behalf the proceeding is commenced was without the capability
of consenting thereto as provided in Section 4101, unless, after
attaining the age of consent, such party for any time freely
cohabited with the other as husband and wife.
3354               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQJj 1 6 0 9

    (b) The husband or wife of either party was living and the
marriage with such husband or wife was then in force, pro-
vided, however, that such husband or wife was absent and not
known to the party commencing the proceeding to be living
for a period of five successive years immediately preceding
the subsequent marriage for which the judgment of nullity is
sought, or was generally reputed or believed by such party to
be dead at the time such subsequent marriage was contracted.
    (c) Either party was of unsound mind, unless such party,
after coming to reason, freely cohabited with the other as
husband and wife.
    (d) The consent of either party was obtained by fraud,
unless such party afterwards, with full knowledge of the facts
constituting the fraud, freely cohabited with the other as hus-
band or wife.
    (e) The consent of either party was obtained by force, un-
less such party afterwards freely cohabited with the other as
husband or wife.
    (f) Either party was, at the time of marriage, physically
incapable of entering into the marriage state, and such in-
capacity continues, and appears to be incurable.
    SEC. 7. Section 4429 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
    4429. The effect of a judgment of nullity is to restore the
parties to the status of unmarried persons.
    SEC. 8. Section 4450 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
 ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
 is amended to read:
    4450. A proceeding based on void or voidable marriage
 shall be commenced by filing in the superior court a petition
 entitled " I n re the marriage of            and         " which
 shall state that it is a petition for a judgment of nullity of the
 marriage. A copy of the petition together with a copy of a
summons in form and content approved by the Judicial Coun-
 cil shall be served upon the other party to the marriage in the
 same manner as service of papers in civil actions generally.
    SEC. 9. Section 4454 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
 ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
 is amended to read:
    4454. In a proceeding under this title, custody of the chil-
 dren shall be determined according to Section 4600.
    SEC. 10. Section 4500 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
 ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
 is amended to read:
    4500. Marriage is dissolved only by (1) the death of one
 of the parties, (2) the judgment of a court of competent juris-
 diction decreeing a dissolution of the marriage, or (3) a judg-
 ment of nullity.
    SEC. 11. Section 4502 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
 ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
 is amended to read.-
                    1969
Ch. 1609]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3355

   4502. In proceedings under this part, the superior court
has jurisdiction to inquire into and render such judgments
and make such orders as are appropriate concerning the
status of the marriage, the custody and support of minor
children of the marriage, the support of either party, the
settlement of the property rights of the parties and the award
of attorneys' fees and costs.
   SEC. 12. Section 4503 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4503. A proceeding for dissolution of the marriage or for
legal separation shall be commenced by filing in the superior
court a petition entitled " I n re the marriage of            and
           " which shall state whether it is a petition for the
dissolution of the marriage or a legal separation. A copy of
the petition together with a copy of a summons in form and
content approved by the Judicial Council shall be served upon
the other party to the marriage in the same manner as service
of papers in civil actions generally.
   SEC. 13. Section 4505 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4505. In those counties which have established a concilia-
tion court, the petitioner shall complete and file a questionnaire
approved by the Judicial Council, concurrently with the filing
of the petition.
   A blank copy of the questionnaire shall be served upon the
respondent together with copies of the summons and petition.
The respondent shall complete and file the questionnaire within
the time in which a responsive pleading must be filed.
    The questionnaire shall be confidential and may be used only
by the court, counsel for the parties, or persons authorized by
the court.
    SEC. 14. Section 4509 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
 ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
    4509. In any pleadings or proceedings for legal separation
 or dissolution of marriage under this part, including deposi-
 tions and discovery proceedings, evidence of specific acts of
 misconduct shall be improper and inadmissible, except where
 child custody is in issue and such evidence is relevant to that
 issue, or at the hearing where it is determined by the court
 to be necessary to establish the existence of irreconcilable
 differences.
    SEC. 15. Section 4511 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
 ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
 is amended to read:
    4511. No decree of dissolution can be granted upon the
 default of one of the parties or upon any statement or finding
 of fact made by a referee; but the court must, in addition to
 any statement or finding of the referee, require proof of the
3356               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               IGh. 1609

grounds alleged, and such proof, if not taken before the court,
shall be by affidavit.
   SEC. 16. Section 4514 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4514. When an interlocutory judgment has been entered
pursuant to Section 4512 and six months have expired from
the date of service of a copy of summons and petition or the
date of appearance of the respondent, the court, on motion of
either party or upon its own motion, may enter the final judg-
ment dissolving the marriage, and such final judgment shall
restore them to the status of single persons and permit either
to marry after the entry thereof; and such other and further
relief as may be necessary to complete disposition of the action,
but if any appeal is taken from the interlocutory judgment or
 a motion for a new trial is made, final judgment shall not be
entered until such motion or appeal has been finally disposed
of, nor then, if the motion has been granted or judgment re-
versed. The death of either party after the entry of the inter-
locutory judgment does not impair the power of the court to
enter final judgment as hereinbefore provided; but such entry
shall not validate any marriage contracted by either party
before the entry of such final judgment, nor constitute any
defense of any criminal prosecution made against either.
   SEC. 17. Section 4517 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4517. In any proceeding under this part, upon a determina-
tion that payment of an obligation of a party would benefit
either party or a minor child, the court may order one of the
parties to pay the obligation, or any portion thereof, directly to
the creditor. The creditor shall have no right to enforce the
order nor shall his rights be affected by such determination.
   SEC. 18. Section 4519 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4519. The court may, when it considers it necessary in the
interests of justice and the persons involved, direct the trial
of any issue of fact joined in proceedings under this part to be
private, and may exclude all persons except the officers of the
court, the parties, their witnesses and counsel.
   SEC. 19. Section 4526 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4526. When the court orders one of the parties to pay
costs and attorneys' fees for the benefit of the other party,
such costs and fees may, in the discretion of the court, be
made payable in whole or in part to the attorney entitled
thereto. An order of the court providing for payment of such
costs and fees may be enforced directly by such attorney in
his own name or by the party in whose behalf such order was
                    l969
Ch. 1609]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3357

made, provided that if such attorney has ceased to be such,
it shall be a condition of such enforcement, and must appear
of record, that such attorney shall have given to his former
client or successor counsel 10 days' written notice of his ap-
plication for such enforcement, and during such period the
client may file in such proceeding a motion directed to such
former attorney for partial or total reallocation of fees and
costs to cover the services and cost of successor counsel, in
which event such proceeding shall be stayed until the court
has resolved such motion.
   SEC. 20. Section 4602 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4602. In any proceeding under this part, when so directed
by the court, the probation officer or domestic relations inves-
tigator shall conduct a custody investigation and file a written
confidential report thereon. The report may be considered by
the court and shall be made available only to the parties or
their attorneys at least 10 days before any hearing regarding
the custody of a child. The report may be received in evidence
upon stipulation of all interested parties.
   SEC. 21. Section 4701 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   4701. In any proceeding where the court has ordered either
or both parents to pay any amount for the support of a minor
child, the court may order either parent or both parents to
assign to the county clerk, probation officer, or other officer of
the court or county officer designated by the court to receive
such payment, that portion of salary or wages of either par-
ent due or to be due in the future as will be sufficient to p a y
the amount ordered by the court for the support, maintenance
and education of the minor child. Such order shall be binding
upon an employer upon the service of a copy of such order
upon such employer and until further order of the court. The
employer may deduct the sum of one dollar ($1) for each pay-
ment made pursuant to such order. Any such order may be
modified or revoked at any time by the court. Any such assign-
ment made pursuant to court order shall have priority as
against any attachment, execution, or other assignment, unless
otherwise ordered by the court.
   SEC. 22. Section 5102 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   5102. Neither husband nor wife has any interest in the
property of the other, but neither can be excluded from the
other's dwelling except as provided in Section 4518 or, in
proceedings under Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4400)
or Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 4425) of Title 2 of
this part, or under Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4500)
of Title 3 of this part, upon application of either party in the
3358               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Qh J609

 manner provided by Section 527 of the Code of Civil Proce-
 dure, the court may order the temporary exclusion of either
 party from the family dwelling or from the dwelling of the
 other upon a showing that physical or emotional harm would
 otherwise result, until the final determination of the pro-
 ceeding.
    SEC. 23. Section 5113.5 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
    5113.5. "Where community property, before or after the
 effective date of this section, is transferred by the husband
 and wife to a trust, regardless of the identity of the trustee,
 which trust originally or as amended prior or subsequent to
 such transfer (a) is revocable in whole or in part during their
 joint lives, (b) provides that the property after transfer to
 the trust and. any withdrawal therefrom shall be and remain
 their community property, (c) grants the trustee during their
 joint lives powers no more extensive than those possessed by
 a husband under Section 5125, except as to property described
 in Section 5124 respecting which the trustee's powers shall be
 no more extensive than those possessed by a wife under Sec-
 tion 5124 and (d) is subject to amendment or alteration dur-
 ing their joint lifetime upon their joint consent, the respec-
 tive interest of each spouse in such trust shall be community
 property, unless the trust otherwise expressly provides.
 Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect community
 property which, before or after the effective date of this sec-
 tion, is transferred in a manner other than as described in this
section or to a trust containing different provisions than those
 set forth in this section; nor shall this section be construed
to prohibit the trustee from conveying any trust property,
real or personal, in accordance with the provisions of the
trust without the consent of the husband or wife unless the
 trust expressly requires the consent of one or both spouses.
    SEC. 24. Section 5125 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
    5125. Except as provided in Sections 5113.5, 5124, and
5128, the husband has the management and control of the
community personal property, with like absolute power of
 disposition, other than testamentary, as he has of his sepa-
rate estate; provided, however, that he cannot make a gift
of such community personal property, or dispose of the same
without a valuable consideration, or sell, convey, or encum-
ber the furniture, furnishings, or fittings of the home, or the
clothing or wearing apparel of the wife or minor children that
is community, without the written consent of the wife.
    SEC. 25. Section 5127 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
    5127. Except as provided in Sections 5113.5 and 5128,
the husband has the management and control of the com-
munity real property, but the wife, either personally or by
                    1969
Ch. 1609]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3359

duly authorized agent, must join with him in executing any
instrument by which such community real property or any
interest therein is leased for a longer period than one year, or
is sold, conveyed, or encumbered; provided, however, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to a lease,
mortgage, conveyance, or transfer of real property or of any
interest in real property between husband and wife; provided,
also, however, that the sole lease, contract, mortgage or deed
of the husband, holding the record title to community real
property, to a lessee, purchaser, or encumbrancer, in good
faith without knowledge of the marriage relation, shall be
presumed to be valid. No action to avoid any instrument men-
tioned in this section, affecting any property standing of rec-
ord in the name of the husband alone, executed by the hus-
band alone, shall be commenced after the expiration of one
year from the filing for record of such instrument in the re-
corder's office in the county in which the land is situate, and
no action to avoid any instrument mentioned in this section,
affecting any property standing of record in the name of the
husband alone, which was executed by the husband alone and
filed for record prior to the time this act takes effect, in the
recorder's office in the county in which the land is situate,
shall be commenced after the expiration of one year from the
date on which this act takes effect.
   SEC. 26. Section 5138 of the Civil Code, as enacted by Sen-
ate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   5138. For the purpose of application of the laws of succes-
sion set forth in the Probate Code to a decedent, and for the
purpose of determining the validity of a marriage under the
laws of this state, an alliance entered into prior to 1958, which,
by custom of the Indian tribe, band, or group of which the
parties to the alliance, or either of them, are members, is com-
monly recognized in such tribe, band, or group as marriage, is
deemed a valid marriage under the laws of this state. In the
case of such marriages and for such purpose a separation,
which, by custom of the Indian tribe, band, or group of which
the separating parties, or either of them, are members, is com-
monly recognized in such tribe, band, or group as a dissolution
of marriage, is deemed a valid divorce under the laws of this
state.
   SEC. 27. Section 396b of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   396b. Except as otherwise provided in Section 396a, if an
action or proceeding is commenced in a court having jurisdic-
tion of the subject matter thereof, other than the court desig-
nated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under the pro-
visions of this title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried
in the court where commenced, unless the defendant, at the
time he answers or demurs, or, at his option, without answer-
ing or demurring and within the time otherwise limited to

   106—1954
3360              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               m } ^ 1609

plead, files with the clerk, or with the judge if there be no
clerk, an affidavit of merits and notice of motion for an order
transferring the action or proceeding to the proper court,
together with proof of service, upon the adverse party, of a
copy of such papers. Upon the hearing of such motion the
court shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was
not commenced in the proper court, order the same transferred
to the proper court; provided, however, that the court in an
action for divorce or separate maintenance, may, prior to the
determination of such motion, consider and determine motions
for allowance of temporary alimony, support of children,
counsel fees and costs, and make all necessary and proper
orders in connection therewith; provided further, that in any
case, if an answer be filed, the court may consider opposition
to the motions, if any, and may retain the action in the county
where commenced if it appears that the convenience of the
witnesses or the ends of justice will thereby be promoted.
   SEC. 28. Section 396b of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   396b. Except as otherwise provided in Section 396a, if an
action or proceeding is commenced in a court having jurisdic-
tion of the subject matter thereof, other than the court desig-
nated as the proper court for the trial thereof, under the pro-
visions of this title, the action may, notwithstanding, be tried
in the court where commenced, unless the defendant, at the
 time he answers or demurs, or, at his option, without answer-
ing or demurring and within the time otherwise limited to
plead, files with the clerk, or with the judge if there be no
 clerk, an affidavit of merits and notice of motion for an order
transferring the action or proceeding to the proper court, to-
 gether with proof of service, upon the adverse party, of a copy
of such papers. Upon the hearing of such motion the court
shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was not com-
menced in the proper court, order the same transferred to
the proper court; provided, however, that the court in a pro-
ceeding for dissolution of marriage or legal separation, may,
prior to the determination of such motion, consider and de-
termine motions for allowance of temporary alimony, support
of children, counsel fees and costs, and make all necessary
 and proper orders in connection therewith; provided further,
 that in any case, if an answer be filed, the court may consider
opposition to the motions, if any, and may retain the action
in the county where commenced if it appears that the con-
venience of the witnesses or the ends of justice will thereby
be promoted.
    SEC. 29. Section 37 of Senate Bill No. 252 of the 1969
Regular Session of the Legislature is amended to read:
    Sec. 37. This act shall become operative on January 1,
 1970, and shall apply to all actions and proceedings filed prior
thereto with respect to issues on which an interlocutory judg-
ment has not been entered or denied in the action, or, if the
                    1969
Ch. 1609]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3361

action is not one in- which an interlocutory judgment may be
entered, with respect to issues on which a judgment has not
been entered, to all proceedings for modification of a judgment
or order, and to all actions and proceedings filed on or after
January 1, 1970. In any action or proceeding in which an
interlocutory judgment or any other judgment has been en-
tered or a new trial has been granted prior to the operative
date of this act, the law in effect at the time of entry of such
judgment or order granting a new trial shall govern any sub-
sequent trial or appeal. Pending actions for dissolution of mar-
riage or legal separation based on grounds other than incurable
insanity shall be deemed to be on the ground of irreconcilable
differences and the evidence adduced after the operative date
of this act shall be in compliance with this act. I n any action
for the dissolution of marriage in which an interlocutory judg-
ment has been entered prior to the operative date of this act,
a final judgment dissolving the marriage may be entered pur-
suant to Section 4514 of the Civil Code, as enacted by this act,
six months after the date of the service of a copy of the sum-
mons and complaint.
   SEC. 30. This act shall become operative only if Senate
Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature is
enacted.
   SEC. 31. Subject to Section 30 of this act, Sections 1, 6 to
22, inclusive, and 29 of this act shall become operative at the
same time as Senate Bill No. 252 of the 1969 Regular Session
of the Legislature becomes operative.
   SEC. 32. Subject to Section 30 of this act, Sections 2 to
4, inclusive, of this act shall become operative only if Senate
Bill No. 1309 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature
is enacted and adds Section 164.8 to, and amends Sections
172 and 172a of, the Civil Code, and, in such case, shall become
 operative at the same time as Senate Bill No. 1309 becomes
operative.
    SEC. 33. Subject to Section 30 of this act, Section 5 of
 this act shall become operative only if Senate Bill No. 288 of
 the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature is enacted and
 amends Section 182 of the Civil Code, and, in such case, shall
 become operative at the same time as Senate Bill No. 288 be-
 comes operative.
    SEC. 34. Subject to Section 30 of this act, Sections 23 to
 25, inclusive, of this act shall become operative only if Senate
 Bill No. 1309 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature is
 enacted and adds Section 164.8 to, and amends Section 172
 and 172a of, the Civil Code, and, in such case, shall become
 operative at the same time as Senate Bill No. 252 of the 1969
 Regular Session of the Legislature becomes operative, at which
 time Section 164.8 of the Civil Code, as added by Section 2
 of this act, and Sections 172 and 172a of the Civil Code, as
 amended by Sections 3 and 4 of this act, respectively, are re-
 pealed.
3362              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   TQJ^ 1 6 1 0

   SEC. 35. Subject to Section 30 of this act, Section 26 of
the act shall become operative only if Senate Bill No. 288 of
the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature is enacted and
amends Section 182 of the Civil Code, and, in such case, shall
become operative at the same time as Senate Bill No. 252 of
the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature becomes operative,
at which time Section 182 of the Civil Code, as amended by
Section 5 of this act, is repealed.
   SEC. 36. Subject to Section 30, Section 27 of this act shall
become operative only if Senate Bill No. 574 of the 1969
Regular Session of the Legislature is enacted and amends Sec-
tion 396b of the Code of Civil Procedure, and, in such case,
shall become operative at the same time as Senate Bill No.
288 becomes operative.
   SEC. 37. Subject to Section 30, Section 28 of this act shall
become operative only if Senate Bill No. 574 of the 1969 Regu-
lar Session of the Legislature is enacted and amends Section
396b of the Code of Civil Procedure, and, in such case, shall
become operative at the same time as Senate Bill No. 252 of the
 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature becomes operative, at
which time Section 396b of the Code of Civil Procedure, as
 amended by Section 27 of this act, is repealed.


                        CHAPTER 1610
An act to amend and renumber the heading of Title 5 (com-
  mencing with Section 405) of Part 2 of, to amend and
  renumber Section 405.7 of, to amend Section 581a of, to
  add Title 5 (commencing with Section 410.10) to Part 2 of,
  to add Sections 167, 473.5, and 1032b to, and to repeal
  Sections 405, 405.5, 406, 407, 408, 410, 410.1, 411, 412, 413,
  414, 415, 416, 416.1, 416.2, 416.3, 417, and 473a of, the
  Code of Civil Procedure, to add Section 3305.2 to the Cor-
  porations Code, and to add Sections 69846.5, 71613.5, and
  72051.5 to the Government Code, relating to courts.
         [Approved by Governor September 5, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 167 is added to the Code of Civil
Procedure, to read:
  167. Any act required or permitted to be performed by
the clerk of a court may be performed by a judge thereof, and
shall be performed by a judge in any court having no clerk.
  SEC. 2. The heading of Title 5 (commencing with Section
405) of Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended
and renumbered to read:
                    1969
Ch. 1610]                   REGULAR SESSION                3363

            TITLE 4.5. RECORDING NOTICE OF
                    CERTAIN ACTIONS
   SEC. 3. Title 5 (commencing with Section 410.10) is added
to Part 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, to read:

TITLE 5.     JURISDICTION AND SERVICE OF PROCESS
    CHAPTER 1.    JURISDICTION AND INCONVENIENT FOBUM

                   Article 1.     Jurisdiction
  410.10. A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on
any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state
or of the United States.

               Article 2.     Inconvenient Forum
  410.30. "When a court upon motion of a party or its own
motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an
action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court
shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any
conditions that may be just.

               Article 3.    Jurisdiction in Action
  410.50. (a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, the
court in which an action is pending has jurisdiction over a
party from the time summons is served on him as provided
by Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10). A general
appearance by a party is equivalent to personal service of
summons on such party.
   (b) Jurisdiction of the court over the parties and the sub-
ject matter of an action continues throughout subsequent
proceedings in the action.
   410.60. I n an action against a corporation which has for-
feited its charter or right to do business, or has dissolved,
the court in which the action is pending has jurisdiction
over all the trustees of such corporation and of its stockholders
or members from the time summons is served on one of the
trustees as provided by Chapter 4 (commencing with Sec-
tion 413.10).
   410.70. In an action against two or more persons who
are jointly, jointly and severally, or severally liable on a
contract, the court in which the action is pending has
jurisdiction to proceed against such of the defendants as
are served as if they were the only defendants.

            CHAPTER 2.      COMMENCING CIVIL ACTIONS

  411.10. A civil action is commenced by filing a complaint
with the court.
  411.20. Upon presentation of a complaint or other first
paper and the payment of at least the fee prescribed by Sec-
3364               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^   JgJQ

tion 26821, 26821.2, 26826, 26826.2, 26827, 71665, 71665.5,
72055, or 72056 of the Government Code, the clerk shall file
it. If all applicable fees are not then paid, the clerk shall
forthwith mail notice of the unpaid fees to the party who
filed the paper at the address stated by the party and shall
execute a certificate of such mailing and place it in the court's
file in the action. The filing is ineffective unless such fees are
paid within 20 days after any notice given by the clerk pur-
suant to this section.
    The clerk's certificate as to the mailing of notice pursuant
to this section establishes a rebuttable presumption that such
fees were not paid. This presumption is a presumption affect-
ing the burden of producing evidence.

                     CHAPTER 3.    SUMMONS

   412.10. After payment of all applicable fees, the plaintiff
may have the clerk issue one or more summons for any de-
fendant.
   412.20. (a) Except as otherwise required by statute, a
summons shall be directed to the defendant, signed by the
clerk and issued under the seal of the court in which the ac-
tion is pending, and it shall contain:
   (1) The title of the court in which the action is pending.
   (2) The names of the parties to the action.
   (3) A direction that the defendant file with the court a
written pleading in response to the complaint within 30 days
after summons is served on him. In justice courts, the direc-
tion shall be that the defendant file with the court a written
pleading, or cause an oral pleading to be entered in the
docket, in response to the complaint within 30 days after sum-
mons is served on him.
   (4) A notice that, unless the defendant so responds, his de-
fault will be entered upon application by the plaintiff and
the plaintiff may apply to the court for the relief demanded
in the complaint.
   (5) The following statement in boldface t y p e : "You may
seek the advice of an attorney in any matter connected with
the complaint or this summons. Such attorney should be con-
sulted promptly so that your pleading may be filed or entered
within the time required by this summons."
   (b) A summons in form approved by the Judicial Council
is deemed to comply with this section.
   412.30. In an action against a corporation or an unincorpo-
rated association (including a partnership), the copy of the
summons that is served shall contain a notice stating in sub-
stance : " To the person served: You are hereby served in the
within action (or special proceeding) on behalf of (here state
the name of the corporation or the unincorporated association)
as a person upon whom a copy of the summons and of the
complaint may be delivered to effect service on said party
under the provisions of (here state appropriate provisions of
                     1969
Ch. 1610]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3355

Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10) of the Code of
Civil Procedure)." If service is also made on such person as
an individual, the notice shall also indicate that service is
being made on such person as an individual as well as on
behalf of the corporation or the unincorporated association.
   If such notice does not appear on the copy of the summons
served, no default may be taken against such corporation or
unincorporated association or against such person individu-
ally, as the case may be.
                CHAPTER 4.    SERVICE OF SUMMONS

                      Article 1.    General
   413.10. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a sum-
mons shall be served on a person:
   (a) Within this state, as provided in this chapter.
   (b) Outside this state but within the United States, as pro-
vided in this chapter or as prescribed by the law of the place
where the person is served.
   (c) Outside the United States, as provided in this chapter
or as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or,
if the court before or after service finds that the service is rea-
sonably calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the
law of the place where the person is served or as directed by
the foreign authority in response to a letter rogatory.
   413.20. If a summons is served by mail pursuant to this
chapter, the provisions of Section 1013 that extend the time
for exercising a right or doing an act shall not extend any
time specified in this title.
   413.30. Where no provision is made in this chapter or other
law for the service of summons, the court in which the action
is pending may direct that summons be served in a manner
which is reasonably calculated to give actual notice to the
party to be served and that proof of such service be made as
prescribed by the court.

        Article 2. Persons Who May Serve Summons
   414.10. A summons may be served by any person who is
at least 18 years of age and not a party to the action.

            Article 3. Manner of Service of Summons
  415.10. A summons may be served by personal delivery of
a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the person
to be served. Service of a summons in this manner is deemed
complete at the time of such delivery.
  415.20. (a) In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the
summons and of the complaint to the person to be served as
specified in Section 416.10, 416.20, 416.30, 416.40, or 416.50.,
a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons
and of the complaint during usual office hours in his office
3366              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             TQJj 1 6 1 0

with the person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the com-
plaint (by first-class mail, postage prepaid) to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and of
the complaint were left. Service of a summons in this manner
is deemed complete on the 10th day after such mailing.
   (b) If a copy of the summons and of the complaint cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person
to be served as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or
416.90, a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the
summons and of the complaint at such person's dwelling
house, usual place of abode, or usual place of business in
the presence of a competent member of the household or a
person apparently in charge of his office or place of busi-
ness, at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the
contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint (by first-class mail, postage
prepaid) to the person to be served at the place where a copy
of the summons and of the complaint were left. Service of a
summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day
after such mailing.
   415.30. (a) A summons may be served by mail as provided
in this section. A copy of the summons and of the complaint
shall be mailed (by first-class mail or airmail, postage pre-
paid) to the person to be served, together with two copies of
the notice and acknowledgment provided for in subdivision
 (b) and a return envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the
sender.
   (b) The notice specified in subdivision (a) shall be in sub-
stantially the following form:

       (Title of court and cause, with action number, to
         be inserted by the sender prior to mailing)
                            NOTICE

   To: (Here state the name of the person to be served.)
   This summons is served pursuant to Section 415.30 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure. Failure to complete this
form and return it to the sender within 20 days may subject
you (or the party on whose behalf you are being served)
to liability for the payment of any expenses incurred in serv-
ing a summons upon you in any other manner permitted
by law. If you are served on behalf of a corporation, unin-
corporated association (including a partnership), or other
entity, this form must be signed in the name of such entity
by you or by a person authorized to receive service of process
on behalf of such entity. In all other cases, this form must
be signed by you personally or by a person authorized by
you to acknowledge receipt of summons. Section 415.30 pro-
vides that this summons is deemed served on the date of
execution of an acknowledgment of receipt of summons.
                      1969
Ch. 1610]                    REGULAR SESSION                         3367


                                                      Signature of sender

            ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT OF SUMMONS

  This acknowledges receipt on (insert date) of a copy of the
summons and of the complaint at (insert address).
Date:
            (Date this acknowledgement is executed)

                    Signature of person acknowledging receipt, with
                      title if acknowledgment is made on behalf of
                      another person

   (c) Service of a summons pursuant to this section is deemed
complete on the date a written acknowledgment of receipt of
summons is executed, if such acknowledgment thereafter is
returned to the sender.
   (d) If the person to whom a copy of the summons and of
the complaint are mailed pursuant to this section fails to
complete and return the acknowledgment form set forth in
subdivision (b) within 20 days from the date of such mailing,
the party to whom the summons was mailed shall be liable
for reasonable expenses thereafter incurred in serving or at-
tempting to serve the party by another method permitted
by this chapter, and, except for good cause shown, the court in
which the action is pending, upon motion, with or without
notice, shall award the party such expenses whether or not he
is otherwise entitled to recover his costs in the action.
   (e) A notice or acknowledgment of receipt in form ap-
proved by the Judicial Council is deemed to comply with
this section.
   415.40. A summons may be served on a person outside
this state in any manner provided by this article or by send-
ing a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the
person to be served by any form of airmail requiring a return
receipt. Service of a summons by this form of mail is deemed
complete on the 10th day after such mailing.
   415.50. (a) A summons may be served by publication if
upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in
which the action is pending that the party to be served can-
not with reasonable diligence be served in another manner
specified in this article and that:
   (1) A cause of action exists against the party upon whom
service is to be made or he is a necessary or proper party to
the action; or
   (2) The party to be served has or claims an interest in
real or personal property in this state that is subject to the
jurisdiction of the court or the relief demanded in the action
consists wholly or in part in excluding such party from
any interest in such property.
   (b) The court shall order the summons to be published in a
named newspaper, published in this state, that is most likely
to give actual notice to the party to be served and direct
3368               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               r^ft   J610

that a copy of the summons and of the complaint be forthwith
mailed to such party if his address is ascertained before
expiration of the time prescribed for publication of summons.
Except as otherwise provided by statute, the publication shall
be made as provided by Section 6064 of the Government Code
unless the court in its discretion orders publication for a longer
period.
   (c) Service of a summons in this manner is deemed com-
plete on the last day of publication.
   (d) Notwithstanding an order for publication of the sum-
mons, a summons may be served in another manner authorized
by this chapter, in which event such service shall supersede
any published summons.

  Article 4.   Persons Upon Whom Summons May Be Served
   416.10. A summons may be served on a corporation by
delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint:
   (a) To the person designated as agent for service of process
as provided by any provision in Sections 3301 to 3303, inclu-
sive, or Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the Corporations
Code;
   (b) To the president or other head of the corporation, a
vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer
or assistant treasurer, a general manager, or a person author-
ized by the corporation to receive service of process;
   (c) If the corporation is a bank, to a cashier or assistant
cashier or to a person specified in subdivision (a) or ( b ) ; or
   (d) When authorized by any provision in Sections 3301 to
3^303, inclusive, or Sections 6500 to 6504, inclusive, of the Cor-
porations Code, as provided by such provision.
 " 416.20. A summons may be served on a corporation that
has forfeited its charter or right to do business, or has dis-
solved, by delivering a copy of the summons and of the com-
plaint :
   (a) To a person who is a trustee of the corporation and of
its stockholders or members; or
   (b) When authorized by any provision in Sections 3305 to
3306, inclusive, of the Corporations Code, as provided by such
provision.
   416.30. A summons may be served on a joint stock company
or association by delivering a copy of the summons and of the
complaint as provided by Section 416.10 or 416.20.
   416.40. A summons may be served on an unincorporated
association (including a partnership) by delivering a copy of
the summons and of the complaint:
   (a) If the association is a general or limited partnership,
to the person designated as agent for service of process as
provided in Section 24003 of the Corporations Code or to a
general partner or the general manager of the partnership;
   (b) If the association is not a general or limited partner-
ship, to the perspn designated as agent for service of process
                     1969
Ch. 1610]                   REGULAR SESSION            -,    3369

as provided in Section 24003 of the Corporations Code or to
the president or other head of the association, a vice president,
a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant treas-
urer, a general manager, or a person authorized by the associa-
tion to receive service of process ;
   (c) When authorized by Section 15700 or 24007 of the Cor-
porations Code, as provided by the applicable section.
   416.50. (a) A summons may be served on a public entity
by delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint to
the clerk, secretary, president, presiding officer, or other head
of its governing body.
   (b) As used in this section, "public entity" includes the
state and any office, department, division, bureau, board, com-
mission, or agency of the state, the Eegents of the University
of California, a county, city, district, public authority, public
agency, and any other political subdivision or public corpora-
tion in this state.
   416.60. A summons may be served on a minor under 18
years of age by delivering a copy of the summons and of the
complaint to his parent, guardian, conservator, or similar fi-
duciary, or, if no such person can be found with reasonable
diligence, to any person having the care or control of such
minor or with whom he resides or by whom he is employed,
and to the minor if he is at least 12 years of age.
   416.70. A summons may be served on a person (other than
a minor under 18 years of age) for whom a guardian, con-
servator, or similar fiduciary has been appointed by deliver-
ing a copy of the summons and of the complaint to his guard-
ian, conservator, or similar fiduciary and to such person, but,
for good cause shown, the court in which the action is pending
may dispense with delivery to such person.
   416.80. When authorized by Section 54 of the Elections
Code, a summons may be served as provided by that section.
   416.90. A summons may be served on a person not other-
wise specified in this article by delivering a copy of the sum-
mons and of the complaint to such person or to a person au-
thorized by him to receive service of process.

                  Article 5.    Proof of Service
   417.10. Proof that a summons was served on a person
within this state shall be made:
   (a) If served under Section 415.10, 415.20, or 415.30, by
the affidavit of the person making' such service showing the
time, place, and manner of service and facts showing that
such service was made in accordance with this chapter. Such
affidavit shall recite or in other manner show the name of the
person to whom a copy of the summons and of the complaint
were delivered, and, if appropriate, his title or the capacity in
which he is served, and that the notice required by Section
412.30 appeared on the copy of the summons served, if in fact
it did appear.
3370              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             TQJj   IQIQ

   If service is made by mail pursuant to Section 415.30, proof
of service shall include the acknowledgment of receipt of sum-
mons in the form provided by that section or other written
acknowledgment of receipt of summons satisfactory to the
court.
   (b) If served by publication pursuant to Section 415.50,
by the affidavit of the publisher or printer, or his foreman or
principal clerk, showing the time and place of publication,
and an affidavit showing the time and place a copy of the sum-
mons of the complaint were mailed to the party to be served,
if in fact mailed.
   (c) If served pursuant to another statute of this state, in
the manner prescribed by such statute or, if no manner is
prescribed, in the manner prescribed by this section for proof
of a similar manner of service.
   (d) By the written admission of the party.
   417.20. Proof that a summons was served on a person
outside this state shall be made:
   (a) If served in a manner specified in a statute of this
state, as prescribed by Section 417.10, and if service is made
by mail pursuant to Section 415.40, proof of service shall
include evidence satisfactory to the court establishing actual
delivery to the person to be served, by a signed return receipt
or other evidence;
   (b) In the manner prescribed by the court order pursuant
to which the service is made;
   (c) Subject to any additional requirements that may be
imposed by the court in which the action is pending, in the
manner prescribed by the law of the place where the person
is served for proof of service in an action in its courts of
general jurisdiction; or
   (d) By the written admission of the party.
   417.30. If a summons is lost after service has been made
but before it is returned, an affidavit of the person who made
the service showing the time, place, and manner of service
and facts showing that such service was made in accordance
with this chapter may be returned with the same effect as if
the summons itself were returned.
           CHAPTEB 5.    OBJECTION TO JURISDICTION

   418.10. (a) A defendant, on or before the last day of his
time to plead or within such further time as the court may
for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion
either or both:
   (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack
of jurisdiction of the court over him
   (2) To stay or dismiss the action on the ground of in-
convenient forum.
   (b) Such notice shall designate, as the time for making
the motion, a date not less than 10 nor more than 20 days
                    1969
Ch. 1610]                  REGULAR SESSION                  337I

after filing of the notice. The service and filing of the
notice shall extend the defendant's time to plead until 15 days
 after service upon him of a written notice of entry of an
order denying his motion, except that for good cause shown
the court may extend the defendant's time to plead for an
additional period not exceeding 20 days.
    (c) If such motion is denied by the trial court, the defend-
ant, within 10 days after service upon him of a written
notice of entry of an order of the court denying his motion,
or within such further time not exceeding 20 days as the trial
court may for good cause allow, and before pleading, may pe-
tition an appropriate reviewing court for a writ of mandate
to require the trial court to enter its order quashing the service
of summons or staying or dismissing the action. The defend-
ant shall file or enter his responsive pleading in the trial
court within the time prescribed by subdivision (b) unless,
on or before the last day of his time to plead, he serves upon
the adverse party and files with the trial court a notice that
he has petitioned for such writ of mandate. The service and
filing of such notice shall extend his time to plead until 10
days after service upon him of a written notice of the final
judgment in the mandate proceeding. Such time to plead may
for good cause shown be extended by the trial court for an
additional period not exceeding 20 days.
    (d) No default may be entered against the defendant be-
fore expiration of his time to plead, and no motion under this
section, or under Section 473 or 473.5 when joined with a
motion under this section, or application to the court or
stipulation of the parties for an extension of the time to plead,
shall be deemed a general appearance by the defendant.
    SEC. 4. Section 405 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
pealed.
    SEC. 5. Section 405.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
    SEC. 6. Section 405.7 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended and renumbered to read:
    1029.5. (a) Whenever a complaint for damages is filed
against any architect, landscape architect, engineer, building
designer, or land surveyor, duly licensed as such under the
laws of this state, in an action for error, omission, or profes-
sional negligence in the creation and preparation of plans,
specifications, designs, reports or surveys which are the basis
for work performed or agreed to be performed on real prop-
erty, any such defendant may, within 30 days after service of
summons, move the court for an order, upon notice and hear-
ing, requiring the plaintiff to furnish a written undertaking,
with at least two sufficient sureties, in the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500) as security for the costs of defense as provided
in subdivision (d), which may be awarded against such plain-
tiff. Such motion shall be supported by affidavit showing that
the claim against such defendant is frivolous.
3372              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Qfo_ 1 6 1 0

  At the hearing upon such motion, the court shall order
the plaintiff to file such security if the defendant shows to the
satisfaction of the court that (i) the plaintiff would not suffer
undue economic hardship in filing such written undertaking,
and (ii) there is no reasonable possibility that the plaintiff has
a cause of action against each named defendant with respect
to whom the plaintiff would otherwise be required to file
such written undertaking. No appeal shall be taken from any
order made pursuant to this subdivision to file or not to file
such security.
  A determination by the court that security either shall or
shall not be furnished or shall be furnished as to one or more
defendants and not as to others, shall not be deemed a de-
termination of any one or more issues in the action or of the
merits thereof. If the court, upon any such motion, makes a
determination that a written undertaking be furnished by the
plaintiff as to any one or more defendants, the action shall be
dismissed as to such defendant or defendants, unless the se-
curity required by the court shall have been furnished within
such reasonable time as may be fixed by the court.
   (b) This section does not apply to a complaint for bodily
injury or for wrongful death, nor to an action commenced in
a small claims court.
   (c) "Whenever more than one such defendant is named, the
undertaking shall be increased to the extent of five hundred
dollars ($500) for each additional defendant in whose favor
such undertaking is ordered not to exceed the total of three
thousand dollars ($3,000).
   (d) In any action requiring a written undertaking as pro-
vided in this section, upon the dismissal of the action or the
award of judgment to the defendant, the court shall require
the plaintiff to pay the defendant's costs of defense authorized
by law. Any sureties shall be liable for such costs in an amount
not to exceed the sum of five hundred dollars ($500) for each
defendant with respect to whom such sureties have executed
a written undertaking. If the plaintiff prevails in the action
against any defendant with respect to whom such security
has been filed, such defendant shall pay the cost to plaintiff
of obtaining such written undertaking.
   SEC. 7. Section 406 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 8. Section 407 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 9. Section 408 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
pealed.
   SEC. 10. Section 410 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SEC. 11. Section 410.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SEC. 12. Section 411 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
pealed.
Ch. 1610]           1969 REGULAR SESSION                   3373
   SEC. 13. Section 412 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 repealed.
   SEC. 14. Section 413 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
 pealed.
   SEC. 15. Section 414 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
 pealed.
   SEC. 16. Section 415 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
 pealed.
   SEC. 17. Section 416 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
 pealed.
   SEC. 18. Section 416.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SEC. 19. Section 416.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SEC. 20. Section 416.3 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
repealed.
   SEC. 21. Section 417 of the Code of Civil Procedure is re-
 pealed.
   SEC. 22. Section 473a of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 repealed.
   SEC. 23. Section 473.5 is added to the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure, to read:
   473.5. (a) When service of a summons has not resulted in
actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a de-
fault or default judgment has been entered against him in
such action, he may serve and file a notice of motion to set
aside such default or default judgment and for leave to de-
fend the action. Such notice of motion shall be served and filed
within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier
of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against
him; or (ii) 180 days after service on him of a written
notice that such default or default judgment has been entered.
   (b) A notice of motion to set aside a default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate
as the time for making the motion a date not less than 10 nor
more than 20 days after filing of such notice, and it shall
be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that such
party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.
The party shall serve and file with such notice a copy of the
answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the
action.
   (c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was made
within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his
lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not
caused by his avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect,
it may set aside the default or default judgment on such terms
as may be just and allow such party to defend the action.
   SEC. 24. Section 581a of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   581a. No action heretofore or hereafter commenced shall
be further prosecuted, and no further proceedings shall be had
3374              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Ch. 1610

therein, and all actions heretofore or hereafter commenced
shall be dismissed by the court in which the same shall have
been commenced, on its own motion, or on the motion of any
party interested therein, whether named in the complaint as a
party or not, unless the summons shall be served and return
thereon made within three years after the commencement of
said action, except where the parties have filed a stipulation in
writing that the time may be extended. But all such actions
may be prosecuted, if general appearance has been made by
the defendant or defendants, within said three years in the
same manner as if summons had been issued and served; pro-
vided, that, except in actions to partition or to recover posses-
sion of, or to enforce a lien upon, or to determine conflicting
claims to, real or personal property, no dismissal shall be had
under this section as to any defendant because of the failure
to serve summons on him during his absence from the state, or
while he has secreted himself within the state to prevent the
service of summons on him.
   All actions, heretofore or hereafter commenced, shall
be dismissed by the court in which the same may be pending,
on its own motion, or on the motion of any party interested
therein, if summons has been served, and no answer has been
filed, if plaintifE fails, or has failed, to have judgment entered
within three years after service of summons, except where the
parties have filed a stipulation in writing that the time may be
extended.
   A motion to dismiss pursuant to the provisions of this sec-
tion shall not, nor shall any extension of time to plead after
such motion, constitute a general appearance.
   SEC. 25. Section 1032b is added to the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure, to read:
   1032b. "When a summons is served by a person other than
a public officer or employee, the court in which the action is
pending shall allow as a recoverable cost such sum as it deems
proper for such service, but not exceeding the amount allowed
to a public officer or employee in this state for such service.
   SEO. 26. Section 3305.2 is added to the Corporations Code,
to read:
   3305.2. I n all cases where a corporation has forfeited its
charter or right to do business, or has dissolved, the trustees
of the corporation and of its stockholders or members may be
sued in the corporate name of such corporation.
   SEO. 27. Section 69846.5 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   69846.5. The clerk of the superior court shall endorse on
each paper filed with the court the day, month, and year it is
filed.
   SEC. 28. Section 71613.5 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
                        1969
Ch. 16111                      REGULAR SESSION                    3375

   71613.5. The clerk of the justice court, or the judge if there
be no clerk, shall endorse on each paper filed with the court
the day, month, and year it is filed.
   SEC. 29. Section 72051.5 is added to the Government Code,
to read:
   72051.5. The clerk of the municipal court shall endorse on
each paper filed with the court the day, month, and year it is
filed.
   SEC. 30. (a) This act shall become operative on July 1,
1970.
    (b) In any action commenced prior to July 1, 1970, in
which a summons was properly issued but not served before
July 1, 1970, the summons shall be served as provided by
this act. However, if an order for publication of summons
was made before July 1, 1970, but actual service of summons
was not completed by that date, the service may be completed
as provided by the law in effect prior to July 1, 1970.
    (c) In any action commenced prior to July 1, 1970, in
which a summons has been served but no return thereon made
by July 1, 1970, the return of summons may be made as pro-
vided by this act or as provided by the law in effect prior to
July 1,1970.
    (d) In any action commenced prior to July 1, 1970, in
which a default or default judgment was entered prior to
July 1, 1970, the law in effect prior to July 1, 1970, shall
govern the right to seek relief.
    (e) Nothing in this act revives or reinstates any right that,
on the operative date of this act, was lost or barred by the
law in effect prior thereto.

                           CHAPTER 1611
An act to amend Sections 149, 224, and 235 of the Civil Code,
  to amend Section 3241 of the Civil Code as added by Senate
  Bill No. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session, to amend Sections
  376, 387, 585, 586, 750, 751.10, 751.11, 757, 762, 801.6, 801.8,
  801.9, 801.10, 851, 861.1, 863, 870, 904.1, 904.2, 904.3, 989,
  1167,1200.1, and 1245.2 of, and to add Section 2015.3 to, the
  Code of Civil Procedure, to amend Sections 2416, 3300, 3302,
  3305.1, and 24007 of the Corporations Code, to amend Sec-
  tions 370, 1101, 1435.5, 1754, and 1755 of the Prolate Code,
  to amend Sections 3599, 3601, 3602, 3957, 3959, and 3960
  of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and to amend Section
  6611 of the Streets and Highways Code, relating to Civil
  Procedure.
            [Approved by Governor September 5, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
  SECTION     1.   Section 149 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
3376              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Qh    lftll

   149. When service of summons is made pursuant to Sec-
tion 415.50 of the Code of Civil Procedure upon a spouse sued
under the provisions of this chapter, the court, without the aid
of attachment thereof or the appointment of a receiver, shall
have and may exercise the same jurisdiction over all of the
following:
   (a) The community real property of the spouse so served
situated in this state as it has or may exercise over the com-
munity real property of a spouse sued under the provisions of
this chapter and personally served with process within this
state.
   (h) The quasi-community real property of the spouse so
served situated in this state as it has or may exercise over the
quasi-community real property of a spouse sued under the
provisions of this chapter and personally served with process
within this state.
   SEC. 2. Section 224 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   224. A legitimate child cannot be adopted without the con-
sent of its parents if living; however, after the custody of any
child has, by any judicial decree, been given to the father, and
the mother for a period of one year fails to communicate with
such child when able to do so, or been given to the mother, and
the father for a period of one year shall willfully fail to pay
for the care, support and education of such child when able to
 do so, then the parent to whom custody has been given alone
 may consent to such adoption, but only after the parent to
whom custody has not been given has been served with a copy
of a citation in the manner provided by law for the service
of a summons in a civil action that requires him or her to
 appear at the time and place set for the appearance in court
under Section 227; failure of father to pay for the care, sup-
port and education of such child for such period of one year
or failure of mother to communicate with such child for such
period of one year is prima facie evidence that such failure
was willful and without lawful excuse; nor an illegitimate
child without the consent of its mother if living; except that
the consent of a father or mother is not necessary in the fol-
lowing cases:
   1. When such father or mother has been judicially de-
prived of the custody and control of such child (a) by order
of the court declaring such child to be free from the custody
and control of either or both of his parents pursuant to
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 232) of Title 2 of
Part 3 of Division 1 of this code, or (b) by similar order of
the court of another jurisdiction, pursuant to any law of
that jurisdiction authorizing such order; or when such father
or mother has, in a judicial proceeding in another jurisdiction,
voluntarily surrendered his right to the custody and control
of such child pursuant to any law of that jurisdiction pro-
vided for such surrender.
                    1969
Ch. 1611]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3377

   2. Where such father or mother of any child has deserted
the child without provision for its identification.
   3. Where such father or mother of any child has relin-
quished such child for adoption as provided in Section 224m;
or where such father or mother has relinquished such child
for adoption to a licensed or authorized child-placing agency
in another jurisdiction pursuant to the law of that jurisdic-
tion.
   SEC. 3. Section 235 of the Civil Code is amended to read:
   235. (a) The father or mother of such minor person, if his
or her place of residence is known to the petitioner, or, if the
place of residence of such father or mother is not known to
the petitioner, then some relative of such minor person, if
there is any and if his residence and relationship to such
person are known to the petitioner, shall be notified of the
proceedings by service of a citation requiring such person or
persons to appear at the time and place stated in such cita-
tion. Such citation shall be served in the manner provided
by law for the service of a summons in a civil action, other
than by publication. In all cases where one parent has relin-
quished his child for the purpose of adoption, or has signed a
consent for adoption as provided in Sections 224m and 226,
no notice as herein provided need be given to the parent who
has signed such relinquishment or consent. Service of such
citations shall be made at least 10 days before the time stated
therein for such appearance.
   (b) If the father or mother of such minor person or any per-
son alleged to be or claiming to be the father or mother cannot,
with reasonable diligence, be served as provided for in subdivi-
sion (a), or if his or her place of residence is not known to
the petitioner, the petitioner or his agent or attorney shall
make and file an affidavit, and shall state therein the name of
the father or mother or alleged father or mother and his or her
place of residence, if known to the petitioner, and the name of
the father or mother or alleged father or mother whose place
of residence is unknown to the petitioner. Thereupon the
court shall make an order that the service be made by the pub-
lication of a citation requiring such father or mother or alleged
father or mother to appear at the time and place stated
therein, and that the citation be published in a newspaper to
be named and designated as most likely to give notice to the
father or mother or alleged father or mother to be served once
a week for four successive weeks. I n case of publication where
the residence of a parent or alleged parent is known, the court
shall also direct a copy of the citation to be forthwith served
upon such parent or alleged parent by mail by deposit in
the post office properly addressed and with the postage thereon
fully prepaid, directed to such parent or alleged parent at his
or her place of residence. When publication is ordered, service
of a copy of the citation in the manner provided for in subdi-
vision (a) is equivalent to publication and deposit in the post
3378               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                TQJj J g J J

office. Service is complete at the expiration of the time pre-
scribed by the order for publication or when service is made
as provided for in subdivision (a), whichever event shall first
occur.
   If one or both of the parents of such minor person be un-
known or if the name of either or both of his parents be un-
certain, then such fact shall be set forth in the affidavit and the
court shall order the citation to be directed to either the father
or the mother, or both, of the minor person, naming and other-
wise describing the minor person, and to all persons claiming
to be the father or mother of the minor person.
   SEC. 3.5. Section 3241 of the Civil Code, as added by Sen-
ate Bill No. 316 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature,
is amended to read:
   3241. The written notice to be given to the surety or sure-
ties as provided in Section 3240 may be given by delivery
thereof personally to, or by depositing same in the mail, post-
age prepaid, and certified or registered, addressed in accord-
ance with any of the following which may be applicable:
    (a) If to an individual surety, at his residence or place of
business, if known.
    (b) If to an individual surety and his residence is unknown,
then in care of the county clerk of the county in which the
bond has been recorded.
   (c) If to a corporate surety, at the office or care of the
agent designated by the surety in the bond as the address
to which such notice shall be sent.
    (d) At the office or care of any officer of the surety in this
state:
   (e) At the office of or care of the statutory agent of the
surety in this state.
   (f) By service in the manner provided by law for the serv-
ice of a summons in a civil action.»
   SEC. 4. Section 376 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   376. The parents of a legitimate unmarried minor child,
acting jointly, may maintain an action for injury to such child
caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another. If either
parent shall fail on demand to join as plaintiff in such action
or is dead or cannot be found, then the other parent may
maintain such action and the parent, if living, who does not
join as plaintiff must be joined as a defendant and, before
trial or hearing of any question of fact, must be served with
summons either in the manner provided by law for the service
of a summons in a civil action or by sending a copy of the
summons and complaint by registered mail with proper post-
age prepaid addressed to such parent's last known address with
request for a return receipt. Tf service is made by registered
mail the production of a return receipt purporting to be signed
by the addressee creates a rebuttable presumption that such
summons and complaint have been duly served. The presump-
                    1969
Ch. 1611]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3379

tion established by this section is a presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence. The respective rights of the
parents to any award shall be determined by the court.
   A mother may maintain an action for such an injury to her
illegitimate unmarried minor child. A guardian may maintain
an action for such an injury to his ward.
   Any such action may be maintained against the person
causing the injury. If any other person is responsible for any
such wrongful act or neglect the action may also be main-
tained against such other person. The death of the child or
ward shall not abate the parents' or guardian's cause of action
for his injury as to damages accruing before his death.
   In every action under this section, such damages may be
given as under all of the circumstances of the case may be
just; except that in any action maintained after the death of
the child or ward or against the executor or administrator of
the person causing the injury, the damages recoverable shall
be as provided in Section 573 of the Probate Code.
   If an action arising out of the same wrongful act or neglect
may be maintained pursuant to Section 377 for wrongful
death of any such child, the action authorized by this section
shall be consolidated therewith for trial on motion of any
interested party.
   SEC. 5. Section 387 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   387. At any time before trial, any person, who has an
interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both, may intervene in the
action or proceeding. An intervention takes place when a
third person is permitted to become a party to an action or
proceeding between other persons, either by joining the
plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by
uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the
plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the
plaintiff and the defendant, and is made by complaint, setting
forth the grounds upon which the intervention rests, filed by
leave of the court and served upon the parties to the action or
proceeding who have not appeared, and upon the attorneys of
the parties who have appeared, who may answer or demur to
it within 30 days after service.
   SEC. 6. Section 585 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   585. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fails to
answer the complaint, as follows:
   1. In an action arising upon contract or judgment of a court
of this state for the recovery of money or damages only, if the
 defendant has, or if more than one defendant, if any of the
defendants have, been served, other than by publication, and
no answer or demurrer or notice of motion to strike (of the
character hereinafter specified) or notice of motion to quash
service of summons or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant
3380               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQj. JgJJ

to Section 418.10 or notice of the filing of a petition for writ
of mandate as provided in Section 418.10 has been filed with
the clerk or judge of the court within the time specified in the
summons, or such further time as may be allowed, the clerk,
 or the judge if there be no clerk, upon application of the
 plaintiff, and proof of such service of summons, shall enter the
 default of the defendant or defendants, so served, and imme-
diately thereafter enter judgment for the principal amount
 demanded in the complaint or a lesser amount if credit has
been acknowledged, together with interest allowed by law or
 in accordance with the terms of the contract, and the costs
against the defendant, or defendants, or against one or more
of the defendants. If, by rule of court, a schedule of attorney
fees to be allowed has been adopted, the clerk may include in
the judgment an attorney fee in accordance with such schedule
if the contract provides that an attorney fee be allowed in the
event of an action thereon; provided, that plaintiff shall have
the right, upon filing a written request at the time of appli-
cation for entry of the default of the defendant or defendants,
to have the attorney fee fixed by the court, whereupon, after
the entry of the default, the court shall hear the applica-
tion for determination of the attorney fee and render judg-
ment for such fee and for the other relief demanded in the
complaint, or a lesser amount if credit has been acknowledged,
and the costs against the defendant, or defendants, or against
one or more of the defendants.
    2. I n other actions, if the defendant has been served, other
than by publication, and no answer or demurrer or notice of
motion to strike (of the character hereinafter specified) or
notice of motion to quash service of summons or to stay or
dismiss the action pursuant to Section 418.10 or notice of the
filing of a petition for writ of mandate as provided in Section
418.10 has been filed with the clerk or judge of the court
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time
as may be allowed, the clerk, in courts having a clerk, shall
enter the default of the defendant; and thereafter the plain-
tiff may apply to the court for the relief demanded in the
complaint; in courts which have no clerk, the court shall hear
the evidence offered by the plaintiff, and shall render judg-
ment in his favor for such sum (not exceeding the amount
stated in the complaint), as appears by such evidence to be
just. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, is
necessary to enable the court to give judgment or to carry the
judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear
the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that
purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of damages,
in whole or in part, the court may order the damages to be
assessed by a j u r y ; or if, to determine the amount of damages,
the examination of a long account is involved by a reference
as above provided.
                    l969
Ch. 16111                  REGULAR SESSION                   33g^

    3. In all actions where the service of the summons was
by publication the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time
for answering, may, upon proof of the publication, and that
no answer or demurrer or notice of motion to strike (of the
character hereinafter specified) or notice of motion to quash
service of summons or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant
to Section 418.10 or notice of the filing of a petition for writ
of mandate as provided in Section 418.10 has been filed, apply
for judgment; and the court shall thereupon require proof to
be made of the allegations of the complaint; and if the de-
fendant is not a resident of the state, shall require the plain-
tiff, or his agent, to be examined, on oath, respecting any pay-
ments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to anyone for his
use, on account of any demand mentioned in the complaint,
and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled
to recover; provided that, in all cases affecting the title to or
possession of real property, wThere the service of the summons
was by publication and the defendant has failed to answer,
no judgment shall be rendered upon proof of mere occupancy,
unless such occupancy shall have continued for the time and
shall have been of the character necessary to confer title by
prescription, and in all cases where the plaintiff bases his
claim upon a paper title, the court shall require evidence
 establishing plaintiff's equitable right to judgment before
 rendering such judgment; provided further, however, that in
 actions involving merely the possession of real property where
 the complaint is verified and shows by proper allegations that
 no party to the action claims title to the real property in-
 volved, either by prescription, accession, transfer, will or suc-
 cession but only the possession thereof, the court may render
 judgment upon proof of occupancy by plaintiff and ouster by
 defendant.
     A notice of motion to strike within the meaning of this
 section is a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
 of a pleading filed within the time within which the moving
  party is required otherwise to plead to the pleading. The notice
  of the motion to strike shall specify a hearing date not more
 than 15 days from the filing of the notice, plus any additional
 time that the moving party is otherwise required to give the
  adverse party. The filing of such notice of motion does not
  extend the time within which to demur.
     4. In the cases referred to in subdivisions 2 and 3 of this
  section, excepting those cases which involve the dissolution
  or annulment of marriage or separate maintenance or the
  custody of children, or upon application to have an attorney's
  fee fixed by the court pursuant to subdivision 1 of this section,
  the court in its discretion may permit the use of affidavits, in
  lieu of personal testimony, as to all or any part of the evi-
  dence or proof required or permitted to be offered, received
  or heard in such cases. The facts stated in such affidavit or
  affidavits shall be within the personal knowledge of the affiant
3382              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               r ^   IQH

and shall be set forth with particularity, and each affidavit
shall show affirmatively that the affiant, if sworn as a witness,
can testify competently thereto.
   SEC. 6.3. Section 585 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   585. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fails to an-
swer the complaint, as follows:
   1. In an action arising upon contract or judgment of a court
of this state for the recovery of money or damages only, if the
defendant has, or if more than one defendant, if any of the
defendants have, been served, other than by publication, and
no answer, demurrer, notice of motion to strike (of the char-
acter hereinafter specified), notice of motion to transfer pur-
suant to Section 396b, notice of motion to quash service of
summons or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant to Section
418.10, or notice of the filing of a petition for writ of mandate
as provided in Section 418.10 has been filed with the clerk or
judge of the court within the time specified in the summons, or
such further time as may be allowed, the clerk, or the judge
if there be no clerk, upon application of the plaintiff, and
proof of such service of summons, shall enter the default of
the defendant or defendants, so served, and immediately there-
after enter judgment for the principal amount demanded in
the complaint or a lesser amount if credit has been acknowl-
edged, together with interest allowed by law or in accordance
with the terms of the contract, and the costs against the de-
fendant, or defendants, or against one or more of the de-
fendants. If, by rule of court, a schedule of attorney fees to
be allowed has been adopted, the clerk may include in the
judgment an attorney fee in accordance with such schedule if
the contract provides that an attorney fee be allowed in the
event of an action thereon; provided, that plaintiff shall have
the right, upon filing a written request at the time of applica-
tion for entry of the default of the defendant or defendants,
to have the attorney fee fixed by the court, whereupon, after
the entry of the default, the court shall hear the application
for determination of the attorney fee and render judgment for
such fee and for the other relief demanded in the complaint, or
a lesser amount if credit has been acknowledged, and the costs
against the defendant, or defendants, or against one or more
of the defendants.
   2. In other actions, if the defendant has been served, other
than by publication, and no answer, demurrer, notice of mo-
tion to strike (of the character hereinafter specified), notice
of motion to transfer pursuant to Section 396b, notice of mo-
tion to quash service of summons or to stay or dismiss the
action pursuant to Section 418.10, or notice of the filing of a
petition for writ of mandate as provided in Section 418.10 has
been filed with the clerk or judge of the court within the time
specified in the summons, or such further time as may be al-
lowed, the clerk, in courts having a clerk, shall enter the
                     1969
Ch. 1611]                   REGULAR SESSION                     3383

default of the defendant; and thereafter the plaintiff may ap-
ply to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint; in
courts which have no clerk, the court shall hear the evidence
offered by the plaintiff, and shall render judgment in his favor
for such sum (not exceeding the amount stated in the com-
plaint), as appears by such evidence to be just. If the taking
of an account, or the proof of any fact, is necessary to enable
the court to give judgment or to carry the judgment into
effect, the court may take the account or hear the proof, or
may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.
And where the action is for the recovery of damages, in whole
or in part, the court may order the damages to be assessed by a
j u r y ; or if, to determine the amount of damages, the examina-
tion of a long account is involved by a reference as above pro-
vided.
    3. In all actions where the service of the summons was by
publication the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time for
answering, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no
answer, demurrer, notice of motion to strike (of the character
hereinafter specified), notice of motion to transfer pursuant to
Section 396b, notice of motion to quash service of summons
or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant to Section 418.10,
or notice of the filing of a petition for writ of mandate as
provided in Section 418.10 has been filed, apply for judgment;
and the court shall thereupon require proof to be made of the
allegations of the complaint; and if the defendant is not a
resident of the state, shall require the plaintiff, or his agent,
to be examined, on oath, respecting any payments that have
 been made to the plaintiff, or to anyone for his use, on account
 of any demand mentioned in the complaint, and may render
 judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover; pro-
 vided that, in all cases affecting the title to or possession of real
 property, where the service of the summons was by publication
 and the defendant has failed to answer, no judgment shall be
 rendered upon proof of mere occupancy, unless such occupancy
 shall have continued for the time and shall have been of the
 character necessary to confer title by prescription, and in all
 cases where the plaintiff bases his claim upon a paper title,
 the court shall require evidence establishing plaintiff's equita-
 ble right to judgment before rendering such judgment; pro-
 vided further, however, that in actions involving merely the
 possession of real property where the complaint is verified and
 shows by proper allegations that no party to the action claims
 title to the real property involved, either by prescription,
 accession, transfer, will, or succession, but only the possession
 thereof, the court may render judgment upon proof of occu-
 pancy by plaintiff and ouster by defendant.
     A notice of motion to strike within the meaning of this
 section is a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
  of a pleading filed within the time within which the moving
 party is required otherwise to plead to such pleading. The
3384               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               rQJ^   IQH

notice of the motion to strike shall specify a hearing date not
more than 15 days from the filing of such notice, plus any
additional time that the moving party is otherwise required
to give the adverse party. The filing of such notice of motion
does not extend the time within which to demur.
   4. In the cases referred to in subdivisions 2 and 3 of this
section, excepting those cases which involve the dissolution or
annulment of marriage or separate maintenance or the custody
of children, or upon application to have an attorney's fee fixed
by the court pursuant to subdivision 1 of this section, the
court in its discretion may permit the use of affidavits, in lieu
of personal testimony, as to all or any part of the evidence or
proof required or permitted to be offered, received, or heard
in such cases. The facts stated in such affidavit or affidavits
shall be within the personal knowledge of the affiant and shall
be set forth with particularity, and each affidavit shall show
affirmatively that the affiant, if sworn as a witness, can testify
competently thereto.
   SEC. 6.5. Section 585 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   585. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fails to an-
swer the complaint, as follows:
   1. In an action arising upon contract or judgment of a court
of this state for the recovery of money or damages only, if the
defendant has, or if more than one defendant, if any of the
defendants have, been served, other than by publication, and
no answer or demurrer or notice of motion to strike (of the
character hereinafter specified) or notice of motion to quash
service of summons or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant
to Section 418.10 or notice of the filing of a petition for writ
of mandate as provided in Section 418.10 has been filed with
the clerk or judge of the court within the time specified in the
summons, or such further time as may be allowed, the clerk,
or the judge if there be no clerk, upon written application of
the plaintiff, and proof of such service of summons, shall enter
the default of the defendant, or defendants, so served, and im-
mediately thereafter enter judgment for the principal amount
demanded in the complaint or a lesser amount if credit has
been acknowledged, together with interest allowed by law or in
accordance with the terms of the contract, and the costs against
the defendant, or defendants, or against one or more of
the defendants. If, by rule of court, a schedule of attorney
fees to be allowed has been adopted, the clerk may include in
the judgment an attorney fee in accordance with such sched-
ule if the contract provides that an attorney fee be allowed
in the event of an action thereon; provided, that plaintiff shall
have the right, upon filing a written request at the time of
application for entry of the default of the defendant or de-
fendants, to have the attorney fee fixed by the court, where-
upon, after the entry of the default, the court shall hear the
application for determination of the attorney fee and render
                    1969
Ch. 1611]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3335

judgment for such fee and for the other relief demanded in
the complaint, or a lesser amount if credit has been acknowl-
 edged, and the costs against the defendant, or defendants, or
against one or more the defendants.
    2. In other actions, if the defendant has been served, other
than by publication, and no answer or demurrer or notice of
motion to strike (of the character hereinafter specified) or
notice of motion to quash service of summons or to stay or
dismiss the action pursuant to Section 418.10 or notice of the
filing of a petition for writ of mandate as provided in Section
418.10 has been filed with the clerk or judge of the court
within the time specified in the summons, or such further time
as may be allowed, the clerk, or the judge if there be no clerk,
upon written application of the plaintiff, shall enter the de-
fault of the defendant; and thereafter the plaintiff may apply
to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint; the
court shall hear the evidence offered by the plaintiff, and shall
render judgment in his favor for such sum (not exceeding
the amount stated in the complaint), as appears by such evi-
dence to be just. If the taking of an account, or the proof of
any fact, is necessary to enable the court to give judgment or
to carry the judgment into effect, the court may take the ac-
count or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a
reference for that purpose. And where the action is for the
recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the court may order
the damages to be assessed by a j u r y ; or if, to determine the
amount of damages, the examination of a long account is in-
volved by a reference as above provided.
   3. In all actions where the service of the summons was by
publication the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time for
answering, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no
answer or demurrer or notice of motion to strike (of the
character hereinafter specified) or notice of motion to quash
service of summons or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant
to Section 418.10 or notice of the filing of a petition for writ
of mandate as provided in Section 418.10 has been filed, apply
in writing for judgment; and the court shall thereupon re-
quire proof to be made of the allegations of the complaint;
and if the defendant is not a resident of the state, shall require
the plaintiff, or his agent, to be examined, on oath, respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any-
one for his use, on account of any demand mentioned in the
complaint, and may render judgment for the amount which he
is entitled to recover; provided that, in all cases affecting the
title to or possession of real property, where the service of the
summons was by publication and the defendant has failed to
answer, no judgment shall be rendered upon proof of mere
occupancy, unless such occupancy shall have continued for the
time and shall have been of the character necessary to confer
title by prescription, and in all cases where the plaintiff bases
his claim upon a paper title, the court shall require evidence
establishing plaintiff's equitable right to judgment before ren-
3386              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               r QJj ^ 6 1 1

dering such judgment; provided further, however, that in
actions involving merely the possession of real property where
the complaint is verified and shows by proper allegations that
no party to the action claims title to the real property in-
volved, either by prescription, accession, transfer, will or suc-
cession but only the possession thereof, the court may render
judgment upon proof of occupancy by plaintiff and ouster by
defendant.
   A notice of motion to strike within the meaning of this
section is a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part
of a pleading filed within the time within which the moving
party is required otherwise to plead to the pleading. The
notice of the motion to strike shall specify a hearing date not
more than 15 days from the filing of the notice, plus any
additional time that the moving party is otherwise required
to give the adverse party. The filing of such notice of motion
does not extend the time within which to demur.
   4. I n the cases referred to in subdivisions 2 and 3 of this
section, excepting those eases which involve the dissolution or
annulment of marriage or separate maintenance or the custody
of children, or upon application to have an attorney's fee
fixed by the court pursuant to subdivision 1 of this section,
the court in its discretion may permit the use of affidavits, in
lieu of personal testimony, as to all or any part of the evidence
or proof required or permitted to be offered, received or
heard in such cases. The facts stated in such affidavit or
affidavits shall be within the personal knowledge of the affiant
and shall be set forth with particularity, and each affidavit
shall show affirmatively that the affiant, if sworn as a witness,
can testify competently thereto.
   SEC. 6.7. Section 585 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   585. Judgment may be had, if the defendant fails to answer
the complaint, as follows:
   1. In an action arising upon contract or judgment of a court
of this state for the recovery of money or damages only, if the
defendant has, or if more than one defendant, if any of the
defendants have, been served, other than by publication, and
no answer, demurrer, notice of motion to strike (of the char-
acter hereinafter specified), notice of motion to transfer pur-
suant to Section 396b, notice of motion to quash service of
summons or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant to Section
418.10, or notice of the filing of a petition for writ of man-
date as provided in Section 418.10 has been filed with the clerk
or judge of the court within the time specified in the summons,
or such further time as may be allowed, the clerk, or the judge
if there be no clerk, upon written application of the plaintiff,
and proof of such service of summons, shall enter the
default of the defendant or defendants, so served, and immedi-
ately thereafter enter judgment for the principal amount
demanded in the complaint or a lesser amount if credit has
Ch. 1611]            1969 REGULAR SESSION                    3387
been acknowledged, together with interest allowed by law or
in accordance with the terms of the contract, and the costs
against the defendant, or defendants, or against one or more
of the defendants. If, by rule of court, a schedule of attorney
fees to be allowed has been adopted, the clerk may include
in the judgment an attorney fee in accordance with such
schedule if the contract provides that an attorney fee be
allowed in the event of an action thereon; provided, that
plaintiff shall have the right, upon filing a written request at
the time of application for entry of the default of the defend-
ant or defendants, to have the attorney fee fixed by the court,
whereupon, after the entry of the default, the court shall
hear the application for determination of the attorney fee and
render judgment for such fee and for the other relief de-
manded in the complaint, or a lesser amount if credit has
been acknowledged, and the costs against the defendant, or
defendants, or against one or more of the defendants.
    2. In other actions, if the defendant has been served, other
than by publication, and no answer, demurrer, notice of mo-
tion to strike (of the character hereinafter specified), notice of
motion to transfer pursuant to Section 396b, notice of motion
to quash service of summons or to stay or dismiss the action
pursuant to Section 418.10 or notice of the filing of a petition
for writ of mandate as provided in Section 418.10 has been
filed with the clerk or judge of the court within the time speci-
fied in the summons, or such further time as may be allowed,
the clerk, or the judge if there be no clerk, upon written ap-
plication of the plaintiff, shall enter the default of the de-
fendant; and thereafter the plaintiff may apply to the court
for the relief demanded in the complaint; the court shall hear
the evidence offered by the plaintiff, and shall render judg-
ment in his favor for such sum (not exceeding the amount
stated in the complaint), as appears by such evidence to be
 just. If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact, is
necessary to enable the court to give judgment or to carry the
 judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear
 the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that
 purpose. And where the action is for the recovery of damages,
 in whole or in part, the court may order the damages to be
 assessed by a j u r y ; or if, to determine the amount of damages,
 the examination of a long account is involved by a reference
 as above provided.
    3. In all actions where the service of the summons was by
 publication the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time for
  answering, may, upon proof of the publication, and that no
  answer, demurrer, notice of motion to strike (of the character
  hereinafter specified), notice of motion to transfer pursuant
  to Section 396b, notice of motion to quash service of summons
  or to stay or dismiss the action pursuant to Section 418.10, or
  notice of the filing of a petition for writ of mandate as pro-
  vided in Section 418.10 has been filed, apply in writing for
  judgment; and the court shall thereupon require proof to be
3388               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 TQ^ J g H

 made of the allegations of the complaint; and if the defendant
 is not a resident of the state, shall require the plaintiff, or his
agent, to be examined, on oath, respecting any payments that
have been made to the plaintiff, or to anyone for his use, on
 account of any demand mentioned in the complaint, and may
render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to re-
cover; provided that, in all cases affecting the title to or pos-
session of real property, where the service of the summons
was by publication and the defendant has failed to answer, no
judgment shall be rendered upon proof of mere occupancy,
unless such occupancy shall have continued for the time and
 shall have been of the character necessary to confer title by
prescription, and in all cases where the plaintiff bases his claim
upon a paper title, the court shall require evidence establish-
ing plaintiff's equitable right to judgment before rendering
such judgment; provided further, however, that in actions in-
volving merely the possession of real property where the com-
 plaint is verified and shows by proper allegations that no party
to the action claims title to the real property involved, either
by prescription, accession, transfer, will, or succession, but
only the possession thereof, the court may render judgment
upon proof of occupancy by plaintiff and ouster by defendant.
    A notice of motion to strike within the meaning of this
section is a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part of
a pleading filed within the time within which the moving party
is required otherwise to plead to such pleading. The notice
of the motion to strike shall specify a hearing date not more
than 15 days from the filing of such notice, plus any addi-
tional time that the moving party is otherwise required to give
the adverse party. The filing of such notice of motion does not
extend the time within which to demur.
   4. In the cases referred to in subdivisions 2 and 3 of this
section, excepting those cases which involve the dissolution or
annulment of marriage or separate maintenance or the custody
of children, or upon application to have an attorney's fee fixed
by the court pursuant to subdivision 1 of this section, the court
in its discretion may permit the use of affidavits, in lieu of
personal testimony, as to all or any part of the evidence or
proof required or permitted to be offered, received, or heard
in such cases. The facts stated in such affidavit or affidavits
shall be within the personal knowledge of the affiant and shall
be set forth with particularity, and each affidavit shall show
affirmatively that the affiant, if sworn as a witness, can testify
competently thereto.
    SEC. 7. Section 586 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    586. In the following cases the same proceedings shall be
had, and judgment shall be rendered in the same manner, as if
the defendant had failed to answer:
    1. If the complaint has been amended, and the defendant
fails to answer it, as amended, or demur thereto, or file a notice
                    1969
Ch. 16111                  REGULAR SESSION                   3339

of motion to strike, of the character specified in Section 585,
within 10 days after service thereof or within the time allowed
by the court.
    2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled and a mo-
tion to strike, of the character specified in Section 585, is
denied, or where only one thereof is filed, if the demurrer is
overruled or the motion to strike is denied, and the defendant
fails to answer the complaint within the time allowed by the
court.
    3. If a motion to strike, of the character specified in Sec-
tion 585, is granted in whole or in part, and the defendant
fails to answer the unstricken portion of the complaint within
the time allowed by the court, no demurrer having been sus-
tained or being then pending.
    4. If a motion to quash service of summons or to stay or
dismiss the action has been filed or writ of mandate sought
and notice thereof given, as provided in Section 418.10, and
upon denial of such motion or writ, defendant fails to plead
to the complaint, within the time provided in such section or
as otherwise provided by law.
    5. If the demurrer to the answer is sustained and the de-
fendant fails to amend the answer within the time allowed
by the court.
    SEC. 7.5. Section 586 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
    586. In the following cases the same proceedings shall be
 had, and judgment shall be rendered in the same manner, as
 if the defendant had failed to answer:
    1. If the complaint has been amended, and the defendant
 fails to answer it, as amended, or demur thereto, or file a notice
 of motion to strike, of the character specified in Section 585,
 within 10 days after service thereof or within the time allowed
 by the court.
     2. If the demurrer to the complaint is overruled and a mo-
 tion to strike, of the character specified in Section 585, is
  denied, or where only one thereof is filed, if the demurrer is
  overruled or the motion to strike is denied, and the defendant
 fails to answer the complaint within the time allowed by the
  court.
     3. If a motion to strike, of the character specified in Sec-
  tion 585, is granted in whole or in part, and the defendant
  fails to answer the unstricken portion of the complaint within
  the time allowed by the court, no demurrer having been sus-
  tained or being then pending.
     4. If a motion to quash service of summons or to stay or
  dismiss, the action has been filed or writ of mandate sought
  and notice thereof given, as provided in Section 418.10, and
  upon denial of such motion or writ, defendant fails to plead
  to the complaint, within the time provided in such section or
  as otherwise provided by law.
3390              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              rQ^ J g ^

    5. If the demurrer to the answer is sustained and the de-
fendant fails to amend the answer within the time allowed
by the court.
    6. (a) If a motion to transfer pursuant to Section 396b
is denied and the defendant fails to answer the complaint
within the time allowed by the court or within the time pro-
vided in (c).
    (b) If a motion to transfer pursuant to Section 396b is
granted and the defendant fails to answer the complaint
within 15 days of the mailing of notice of the filing and case
number by the clerk of the court to which the action or pro-
ceeding is transferred or within the time provided in (c).
    (c) If the order granting or denying a motion to transfer
pursuant to Section 396a or 396b is the subject of an appeal
pursuant to Section 904.2 or 904.3 in which a stay is granted
or of a mandate proceeding pursuant to Section 400, and such
order is reversed, the court having jurisdiction over the trial,
upon application or on its own motion after such appeal or
mandate proceeding becomes final or upon earlier termination
of a stay, shall allow the defendant a reasonable time to an-
swer the complaint. Notice of the order allowing the defendant
further time to answer the complaint shall be promptly served
by the party who obtained such order or by the clerk if the
order is made on the court's own motion.
    SEC. 8. Section 750 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    750. Within three years after the filing of the complaint,
as required by Section 749 or 749.1, a summons shall be issued,
which shall contain the matters required by Section 412.20,
and in addition, a description of the property and a statement
of the object of the action. In the summons the unknown de-
fendants shall be designated as in the complaint, whether they
are the sole defendants or not. If as to any defendant the
action is one brought under the provisions of Section 738 and
sections pertinent thereto of this code, such defendant may be
named in the same summons and no separate or additional
summons need be issued directed to such defendant.
   Within 30 days after the issuance of the summons, the plain-
tiff shall post or cause to be posted a copy thereof in a con-
spicuous place on the property described in the complaint.
   At any time after the issuance of the summons, the plaintiff,
or his agent or attorney, shall make and file an affidavit
wherein there shall be stated the following matters:
    (a) The names of the defendants, if any, as to whom the
action is brought under the provisions of Section 738 and
sections pertinent thereto of this code; if there is no such
defendant that fact shall be stated.
    (b) The names of all the defendants who have been served,
if any; if there is none that fact shall be stated.
    (c) The names of the defendants not served whose places
of residence are known to the plaintiff and their respective
places of residence.
                    1969
Ch. 1611]                  REGULAR SESSION                 339I

   (d) The names of the defendants not served whose place of
residence is unknown to the plaintiff.
   All known defendants shall be served in the manner
provided by law for the service of a summons in a civil action.
   Except as otherwise provided, upon the making and filing of
the aforesaid affidavit, the court or a judge thereof shall make
an order directing the summons to be served upon all the
unknown defendants as stated in the complaint and summons
by publication in some daily or weekly newspaper of general
circulation printed and published in the county where the
property is situated, and if there be no such paper in such
county, then in some adjoining county, to be designated by the
court or a judge thereof, which publication shall be pursuant
to Section 6064 of the Government Code.
   All such unknown persons so served shall have the same
rights as are provided by law in cases of all other defendants
named and served, and the action shall proceed against such
unknown persons in the same manner as against the defendants
who are named and served, and with like effect; and any such
unknown person who has or claims to have any right, title,
estate, lien or interest in the property, or cloud on the title
thereto, adverse to plaintiff, at the time of the commencement
of the action, who has been duly served as aforesaid, and any-
one claiming under him, shall be concluded by the judgment
in such action as effectually as if the action was brought
against the person by his or her name and personal service of
process was obtained, notwithstanding any such unknown per-
son may be under legal disability. Service shall be deemed
complete upon the completion of the publication.
  In the event that service of any summons shall be required
to be by publication as to any defendant, including a defend-
ant as to whom the action is brought under the provisions of
Section 738, the order for such publication, made pursuant to
the provisions of Section 415.50 may be made either as a p a r t
of the order for publication of summons made as to unknown
defendants, or as a separate order, as the court or a judge
thereof may consider proper in the particular case.
   SEC. 9. Section 751.10 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   751.10. If the affidavit discloses the name of any person
claiming any interest in or lien upon the property adverse to
the plaintiff, a copy of the summons and complaint and affi-
davit shall also be served upon such person, if he can be found,
in the manner provided by law for the service of a summons
in a civil action, other than by publication. Service shall be
made during the period of the publication of the summons. A
copy of the memorandum provided for in Section 751.07 shall
be appended to the copy of the summons served upon any such
person.
   If such person cannot, with reasonable diligence, be served
as provided above within the period of publication of the
   107—1954
33^2               STAfUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ ±QXX

summons, a copy of the summons, memorandum, complaint,
and affidavit shall be mailed, postage prepaid, addressed to
him at the address given in the affidavit, or, if no address is
given, at his last address known to the plaintiff, or, if none,
at the county seat of the county in which the action is
brought, forthwith upon the expiration of the period of pub-
lication.
   SEC. 10. Section 751.11 of the Code of Civil Procedure
is amended to read:
   751.11. Upon the completion of the publication and posting
of the summons and its service or mailing as provided for in
Section 751.10, the court has complete jurisdiction over the
plaintiff and the property and the person of everyone having
or claiming any estate, right, title, or interest in or to, or lien
upon, all or any part of the property, and shall be deemed to
have obtained the possession and control of the property for
the purposes of the action with complete jurisdiction to render
the judgment provided for in this chapter.
   SEC. 11. Section 757 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   757. If a party having a share or interest or lien is un-
known and such fact is made to appear by affidavit, the sum-
mons may be served on such unknown party by publication.
When publication is made pursuant to this section or, as to a
known party, pursuant to Section 415.50, the summons, as
published, shall contain the description of the property which
is the subject of the action.
   SEC. 12. Section 762 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
   762. The plaintiff shall cause a notice to be served, a
reasonable time previous to the day for appearance before the
referee appointed as provided in Section 761, on each person
having outstanding liens of record, who is not a party to the
action, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place, to make proof, by his own affidavit or otherwise, of the
amount due, or to become due, contingently or absolutely
thereon. The notice shall be served in the manner provided by
law for the service of a summons in a civil action, but, if serv-
ice cannot otherwise be made with the exercise of reasonable
diligence, service may be made by publication or notice to his
agents, under the direction of the court, in such manner as
may be proper. The report of the referee thereon must be
made to the court, and must be confirmed, modified, or set
aside, and a new reference ordered, as the justice of the case
may require.
   SEC. 13. Section 801.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
   801.6. Within three years after the filing of the complaint,
a summons shall be issued which shall contain the matters re-
 quired by Section 412.20, designating the defendants as in the
complaint, and in addition, a description of the property and
a statement of the object of the action.
Ch. 1611]             1969 KEGULAK SESSION                         3393

    SEC. 14. Section 801.8 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    801.8. All known defendants shall be served in the manner
provided by law for the service of a summons in a civil action.
All unknown defendants shall be served by publication as
provided in Section 750.
    SEC. 15. Section 801.9 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    801.9. In addition to the matters required to be set forth
in the affidavit by the plaintiff for publication of summons, it
shall appear by the affidavit that the plaintiff used reasonable
diligence to ascertain the identity and residence of the un-
known defendants and of any persons sued as heirs and de-
visees.
    SEC. 16. Section 801.10 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    801.10. All unknown defendants, including the heirs and
devisees designated in the complaint, shall have the same
rights as are provided by law for other defendants upon whom
summons is served, and the action shall proceed against them
 in the same manner. Eegardless of any legal disability, any
 unknown defendant, including any heir or devisee designated
 in the complaint, who has been served, and anyone claiming
 under him, shall be concluded by a judgment in the action as
 if the action were brought against and personal service made
 upon that person by his or her name.
     SEC. 17. Section 851 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
     851. The notice shall be served in the manner provided by
 law for the service of a summons in a civil action, but where
 service is by publication, the publication shall be in a news-
 paper of general circulation published in the county in which
  the mine or claim is situated or if there is no such newspaper,
  in such a newspaper in an adjoining county, and the publica-
  tion shall be at least once a week for 90 days.
     SEC. 18. Section 861.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
  amended to read:
     861.1. The summons shall be directed to " a l l persons in-
  terested in the matter of [specifying the m a t t e r ] , ' ' shall eon-
  tain a notice to all persons interested in the matter to appear
  and answer the complaint not later than the date specified in
  the summons, which date shall be 10 or more days after the
  completion of publication of the summons. Except as otherwise
   specified in this section such summons shall be in the form pre-
   scribed in Section 412.20.
      SEC. 19. Section 863 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
   amended to read:
      863. If no proceedings have been brought by the public
   agency pursuant to this chapter, any interested person may
   bring an action within the time and in the court specified
3394                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                m j ^ 1611

 by Section 860 to determine the validity of such matter. The
 public agency shall be a defendant and shall be served with
 the summons and complaint in the action in the manner pro-
 vided by law for the service of a summons in a civil action.
 In any such action the summons shall be in the form pre-
scribed in Section 861.1 except that in addition to being di-
rected to " a l l persons interested in the matter of [specifying
the m a t t e r ] , " it shall also be directed to the public agency.
If the interested person bringing such action fails to complete
the publication and such other notice as may be prescribed by
the court in accordance with Section 861 and to file proof
thereof in the action within 60 days from the filing of his com-
plaint, the action shall be forthwith dismissed on the motion of
the public agency unless good cause for such failure is shown
by the interested person.
   SEC. 20. Section 870 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   870. The judgment, if no appeal is taken, or if taken and
the judgment is afSrmed, shall, notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law including, without limitation, Sections 473 and
473.5, thereupon become and thereafter be forever binding and
conclusive, as to all matters therein adjudicated or which at
that time could have been adjudicated, against the agency
and against all other persons, and the judgment shall perma-
nently enjoin the institution by any person of any action or
proceeding raising any issue as to which the judgment is bind-
ing and conclusive.
   SEC. 21. Section 904.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   904.1. An appeal may be taken from a superior court in
the following cases:
   (a) From a judgment, except (1) an interlocutory judg-
ment, other than as provided in subdivisions (h), (i) and (j),
(2) a judgment of contempt which is made final and conclu-
sive by Section 1222, or (3) a judgment on appeal from a
municipal court or a justice court or a small claims court.
   (b) From an order made after a judgment made appealable
by subdivision (a).
   (c) From an order granting a motion to quash service of
summons or granting a motion to stay or dismiss the action on
the ground of inconvenient forum.
   (d) From an order granting a new trial or denying a mo-
tion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict.
   (e) From an order discharging or refusing to discharge an
attachment.
   (f) From an order granting or dissolving an injunction, or
refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction.
   (g) From an order appointing a receiver.
   (h) From an interlocutory judgment, order, or decree,
hereafter made or entered in an action to redeem real or
personal property from a mortgage thereof, or a lien thereon,
                   1969
Ch. 1611]                 B&GTJiiAfi. SESSION           3395

determining such right to redeem and directing an account-
 ing.
   (i) From an interlocutory judgment in an action for parti-
tion determining the rights and interests of the respective
 parties and directing partition to be made.
   (j) From an interlocutory decree of divorce.
   (k) From an order or decree made appealable by the provi-
sions of the Probate Code.
   SEC. 22. Section 904.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   904.2. An appeal may be taken from a municipal court in
the following cases:
   (a) From a judgment, except (1) an interlocutory judg-
ment, or (2) a judgment of contempt which is made final and
conclusive by Section 1222.
   (b) From an order made after a judgment made appealable
by subdivision (a).
   (c) From an order changing or refusing to change the place
of trial.
   (d) From an order granting a motion to quash service of
summons or granting a motion to stay or dismiss the action on
the ground of inconvenient forum.
   (e) From an order granting a new trial or denying a motion
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict.
   (f) From an order discharging or refusing to discharge an
attachment.
   (g) From an order granting or dissolving an injunction, or
refusing to grant or dissolve an injunction.
   (h) From an order appointing a receiver.
   (i) From a judgment of the small claims court as provided
in Chapter 5A (commencing with Section 116) of Title 1 of
Part 1 of this code.
   SEC. 23. Section 904.3 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
   904.3. An appeal may be taken from a justice court in the
following cases:
   (a) From a judgment, except (1) an interlocutory judg-
ment, or (2) a judgment of contempt which is made final and
conclusive by Section 1222.
   (b) From an order made after a judgment made appealable
by subdivision (a).
   (c) From an order changing or refusing to change the place
of trial.
   (d) From an order granting a motion to quash service of
summons or granting a motion to stay or dismiss the action on
the ground of inconvenient forum.
   (e) From an order denying a motion for judgment notwith-
standing the verdict.
   (f) From an order discharging or refusing to discharge an
attachment.
   (g) From an order appointing a receiver.
3396              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^   2611

    (h) From a judgment of the small claims court as provided
in Chapter 5A (commencing with Section 116) of Title 1 of
Part 1 of this code.
    SEC. 24. Section 989 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    989. When a judgment is recovered against one or more
of several persons, jointly indebted upon an obligation, by
proceeding as provided in Section 410.70, those who were not
originally served with the summons, and did not appear in
the action, may be summoned to appear before the court in
which such judgment is entered to show cause why they should
not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner as though
they had been originally served with the summons.
    SEC. 25. Section 1167 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
amended to read:
    1167. The summons shall be in the form specified in Section
 412.20 except that the defendant's time to respond to the com-
 plaint is three days after the summons is served upon him.
     In all other respects the summons shall be issued and served
 and returned in the same manner as a summons in a civil
 action.
     SEC. 26. Section 1200.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
     1200.1. (a) The surety or sureties on any bond given pur-
 suant to any of the provisions of this chapter shall not be
 exonerated or released from the obligation of the bond by any
 change, alteration, or modification in or of any contract, plans,
 specifications, or agreement pertaining or relating to any
 scheme or work of improvement or pertaining or relating to
 the furnishing of labor, materials, or equipment therefor, nor
 by any change or modification of any terms of payment or
 extension of the time for any payment relating or pertaining
 to any scheme or work of improvement, nor by any rescission
 or attempted rescission of any such contract or agreement, nor
 by rescission or attempted rescission of the bond, nor by any
 conditions precedent or subsequent in the bond attempting to
 limit the right of recovery of laborers or materialmen other-
 wise entitled to recover under any such contract or agreement
 or under the bond, nor, where the bond is given for the bene-
 fit of laborers, materialmen, or other persons entitled to claim
 a lien under this chapter, by any fraud practiced by any person
 other than such laborer, materialman, or like person as is seek-
 ing to recover on the bond.
      (b) All bonds given pursuant to the provisions of this chap-
 ter will be construed most strongly against the surety and in
 favor of all persons for whose benefit such a bond is given, and
 under no circumstances shall a surety be in anywise released
  from liability to the laborers or materialmen or persons
  furnishing appliances, teams, or power, for whose benefit
  the bond has been written, by reason of any breach of contract
  between owner and contractor or on the part of any obligee
                    1969
Ch. 1611]                  KBGULAK SESSION                 3397

named in the bond, but the sole condition of recovery on the
part of such person furnishing labor or material or appliances,
teams, or power, as aforesaid, shall be that the labor or ma-
terial has been used or consumed in or the appliances, teams,
or power have contributed to the work of improvement to
which the bond refers, and that the third person for whose
benefit the bond has so been made to inure has not been ac-
tually paid some part or all of the sums due him for the same.
    (c) No provisions in any of the bonds given pursuant to
any of the provisions of this chapter attempting by contract
to shorten the period prescribed for the commencement of
an action thereon, as laid down in Section 337, shall be valid
if such provision attempts to limit the time for commencement
of action thereon to a shorter period than six months from the
completion of the structure or work of improvements, as "com-
pletion" is defined in Article 3 (commencing with Section
1193) of this chapter, nor shall any provision in any of the
bonds attempting to limit the period for the commencement of
actions thereon be valid insofar as actions brought by persons
furnishing labor or materials, appliances or teams or power,
as aforesaid, are concerned, unless the bond be filed for record,
before the work of improvement is commenced, with the county
recorder of the county or city and county in which the prop-
erty referred to therein, or some part thereof, is situated.
    (d) In case the surety or sureties on any bond given as in
this chapter provided shall have caused the bond to be
recorded in the office of the county recorder of the county in
 which the property is situated before the work of improvement
 is completed, then no action may be maintained thereon unless
there shall previously have either been filed a mechanic's lien
 claim as in this chapter provided or unless written notice
 shall previously have been given to the surety on the
 bond before the expiration of the time prescribed in this
 chapter for filing a lien to enforce such claim, which notice
 shall state that the person giving such notice has performed
 labor or furnished materials, or both, or furnished appliances,
 teams, or power, to the contractor or other person acting by
 the authority of the owner, or that they have agreed to do
 so, stating in general terms the kind of labor, materials, ap-
 pliances, teams, or power and the name of the person to or
 for whom the same was done or furnished, or both, and the
 amount in value, as near as may be, of that already done or
 furnished, or both, and of the whole agreed to be done or
 furnished, or both. The filing of an action to foreclose such
 lien shall not be a condition precedent to a recovery on the
 bond. If the bond has been so recorded as herein last provided,
 then any suit brought against such surety or sureties shall be
 filed within six months after completion of the structure or
 work of improvement, as "completion" is defined in Article 3
  (commencing with Section 1193) of this chapter.
     (e) The written notice to be given to the surety or sureties
 hereinabove provided for may be given by delivery thereof
3398               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               TQ^ 1611

 personally to, or by depositing same in the mail, postage pre-
 paid, and registered, addressed as follows:
     (1) If to an individual surety, at his residence or place of
 business, if known.
     (2) If to an individual surety and his residence is un-
 known, then in care of the county clerk of the county in
which the bond has been so filed.
    (3) At the place designated as the residence of the surety
 in the certificate, if any, filed by such surety or sureties as
 provided by Section 1163 of the Civil Code.
     (4) If to a corporate surety, at the office or care of the
 agent designated by the surety in the bond as the address to
which such notice shall be sent.
     (5) At the office or care of any officer of the surety in
this state.
     (6) At the office of or care of the statutory agent of the
surety in this state.
    (7) By service in the manner provided by law for the serv-
ice of a summons in a civil action.
    (f) Any bond given pursuant to any of the provisions of
 this chapter which otherwise fully complies therewith shall be
 conclusively presumed a good and sufficient bond if the surety
 thereon is a corporation duly authorized to issue surety bonds
 in this state.
    SEC. 27. Section 1245.2 of the Code of Civil Procedure is
 amended to read:
    1245.2. A summons may be issued which contains only the
 names of the defendants to be served therewith and a descrip-
 tion or descriptions of only the property sought to be con-
demned against the defendants. Judgment based on failure to
appear and answer after service of such summons shall be
conclusive against such defendants in respect only to the prop-
erty described in such summons.
    SEC. 28. Section 2015.3 is added to the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure, to read:
    2015.3. The certificate of a sheriff, marshal, or constable
has the same force and effect as his affidavit.
    SEC. 29. Section 2416 of the Corporations Code is amended
to read:
   2416. The setting aside, modification, or reversal of a judg-
ment or order of court pursuant to and in accordance with
which a transfer of a certificate for shares or a registered bond
or other security has been registered by a corporation or its
transfer agent does not subject the corporation, its transfer
agent, or its registrar to any liability whatsoever, unless, prior
to the registration of the new certificate, registered bond, or
other security, written notice is served upon the corporation
or its transfer agent in the manner provided by law for the
service of a summons in a civil action, stating that an appeal
or other further court proceeding has been or is to be taken
from or with regard to such judgment or order of court,
                    1969
Ch. 16111                  REGULAR SESSION                  3399

   After the service of such notice neither the corporation nor
its transfer agent has any duty to register the requested trans-
fer or deliver the new certificate, registered bond, or other
security until the corporation or its transfer agent has been
given a certificate of the county clerk of the county in which
the judgment or order of court was given or made, showing
that the judgment or order of court has become final.
   SEC. 30. Section 3300 of the Corporations Code is amended
to read:
   3300. I n addition to the provisions of Chapter 4 (com-
mencing with Section 413.10) of Title 5 of P a r t 2 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, process may be served upon domestic cor-
porations as provided in this part.
   SEC. 31. Section 3302 of the Corporations Code is amended
to read:
   3302. If designation of an agent for the purpose of service
of process has not been filed with the Secretary of State, or if
the agent designated cannot with reasonable diligence be
found at the address designated for delivery by hand of the
process, and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of a
court or judge that process against a domestic corporation
cannot be served with reasonable diligence upon the designated
agent by hand or upon the domestic corporation in the manner
provided for in Section 415.10 or 415.30 of the Code of Civil
Procedure or subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, the court or judge may make an order that
the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by
hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in
his office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of
the process for each defendant to be served, together with a
copy of the order authorizing such service. Service in this
manner constitutes personal service upon the corporation.
   SEC. 32. Section 3305.1 of the Corporations Code is
amended to read :
   3305.1. Every corporation which was dissolved before, on,
or after August 14, 1929, or which was suspended or shall
hereafter be suspended, or which has forfeited or which shall
hereafter forfeit its charter, for any cause, whether voluntary
or involuntary, shall survive and continue to exist indefinitely
for the purpose of being sued in any quiet title action.
I n the event any such corporation has been sued or shall
hereafter be sued in any such quiet title action, such ac-
tion against the corporation shall be deemed to be an action
against all of its stockholders or members or other persons
having or holding any equity or other interest in such cor-
poration and any judgment rendered in any such action shall
bind each and all of such persons, to the extent of their in-
terest, if any, therein. Any such action against the corporation,
proceeded with in the name of or against the corporation in
the corporate name, shall have the same force and effect as
an action which is brought under the provisions of Sections
3400               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [(Jb. 1611

 410.50 and 410.60 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Service of
 summons or other process in any such action may be made as
 provided in Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 413.10) of
 Title 5 of P a r t 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure, or as pro-
 vided in Section 3302 of this code.
    SEC. 33. Section 24007 of the Corporations Code is amended
 to read:
    24007. If designation of an agent for the purpose of serv-
 ice of process has not been made as provided in Section 24003,
 or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable diligence be
 found at the address specified in the index referred to in Sec-
 tion 24004 for delivery by hand of the process, and it is shown
 by affidavit to the satisfaction of a court or judge that process
 against an unincorporated association cannot be served with
 reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand or
 the unincorporated association in the manner provided for in
 Section 415.10 or 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or
 subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 of the Code of Civil Pro-
 cedure, the court or judge may make an order that service be
 made upon the unincorporated association by delivery of a
 copy of the process to any one or more of the association's
 members designated in the order and by mailing a copy of the
 process to the association at its last known address. Service in
 this manner constitutes personal service upon the unincorpor-
 ated association.
    SEC. 34. Section 370 of the Probate Code is amended to
 read:
    370. Any person interested may contest the will by filing
written grounds of opposition to the probate thereof at any
time before the hearing of the petition for probate, and there-
 upon a citation shall be issued directed to the heirs of the de-
cedent and to all persons interested in the will, including
minors and incompetents, wherever residing, directing them
to plead to the contest within 30 days after service of the
citation, which shall be made in the manner provided by law
for the service of a summons in a civil action. Any person so
 served may demur to the contest upon any of the grounds of
demurrer available in civil actions. If the demurrer is sus-
tained, the court may allow the contestant a reasonable time,
not exceeding 10 days, within which to amend his contest. If
the demurrer is overruled, the petitioner and others interested,
within 10 days after the receipt of written notice thereof, may
jointly or separately answer the contest.
    SEC. 35. Section 1101 of the Probate Code is amended to
read:
    1101. Such petition may be filed with the clerk at any time
after the time to file or present claims has expired, and before
the distribution of the property to be affected has been ordered.
I t shall describe the property and give the names of the per-
sons having or claiming the undivided interests and shall state
what those interests are, so far as known to the petitioner.
                    1969
Ch. 1611]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3401

Thereupon a citation shall be issued by the clerk directed to
the persons, other than the petitioner, who are entitled to dis-
tribution of the undivided interests, and to the executor or
administrator, directing them to answer the petition within
30 days after service of the citation. The citation shall be
served in the manner provided by law for the service of a
summons in a civil action. If there is unreasonable delay in
serving the citation, the court may dismiss the proceeding.
   SEC. 38. Section 1435.5 of the Probate Code is amended
to read:
   1435.5. Upon the filing of the petition the clerk shall set
the petition for hearing by the court and, except as later in
this section provided, shall issue a citation directed to the
spouse or spouses not petitioning, setting forth the time and
place of such hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given as
hereinafter provided. The citation and a copy of the petition
shall be served on the spouse or spouses not petitioning,
whether within or without the state, in the manner provided
by law for the service of a summons in a civil action, other
than by publication, at least 10 days before the hearing if
served within the state, otherwise three weeks before the
hearing.
   In the event the citation and copy of the petition cannot,
with reasonable diligence, be so served on a spouse, service of
the citation may be made by publication pursuant to Section
415.50 of the Code of Civil Procedure. No copy of the petition
need then be served on such spouse.
   Notice of the hearing of the petition shall give the name or
names of the incompetent persons, the name of the petitioner
and the purpose for which the order is sought, referring to
the petition for further particulars, and notifying all inter-
ested persons to appear at the time and place mentioned in
the notice and show cause, if any they have, why the order
should not be made.
   If there is a guardian of the estate of a spouse, no citation
to such spouse need be issued if a copy of the notice and of the
petition be served upon such guardian in the manner pro-
vided for in Section 415.10 or 415.30 of the Code of Civil
Procedure or in such manner as may be authorized by the
court at least 10 days before the hearing. I t shall be the duty
of such guardian so served to appear and represent the inter-
ests of his ward.
   A copy of the notice and petition shall be mailed, by the
petitioner, by prepaid, first-class mail, at least 10 days before
the hearing, to the adult relatives named in the petition at
their addresses set forth in the petition.
   If there is no guardian of the estate of the incompetent
spouse to whom the citation is issued or if such guardian
cannot be served as otherwise provided for in this section, a
copy of such notice and petition shall be served personally
upon the public guardian or public administrator of the county
3402              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                fQfo   IgU

in which the petition was filed or upon his deputy or assistant
in the manner provided for in Section 415.10 or 415.30 of the
Code of Civil Procedure or subdivision (a) of Section 415.20
of the Code of Civil Procedure at least 10 days prior to the
hearing and it shall be the duty of such public guardian or
administrator to appear and represent the interests of such
incompetent spouse. For all such services rendered by the pub-
lic guardian or administrator he may be allowed a reasonable
fee, to be fixed by the court, which fee shall be paid out of the
cash proceeds of the transaction or otherwise as the court shall
direct.
   SEC. 37. Section 1754 of the Probate Code is amended to
read:
   1754. Any person or any relative or friend of any person,
other than a creditor of the proposed conservatee, may file a
verified petition alleging that the appointment of a conserva-
tor is required. The petition shall set forth, so far as they are
known to the petitioner, the names and residences of the spouse,
if any, and of the relatives of the proposed conservatee within
the second degree. Upon the filing of the petition, the clerk
shall set the petition for hearing by the court. Notice of the
nature of the proceedings and of the time and place of the
hearing on the petition shall be mailed by the petitioner to
the spouse, if any, and to each of such relatives at least fifteen
 (15) days before such hearing date. If the petition is filed by
a person other than the proposed conservatee, the clerk shall
issue a citation directed to the proposed conservatee setting
forth the time and place of the hearing. The citation, and a
copy of the petition, shall be served upon the proposed con-
servatee in the same manner provided for in Section 415.10
or 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or in such manner as
may be authorized by the court, at least ten (10) days before
the time of the hearing. The proposed conservatee, if he is the
petitioner, or if he is in the state at date of service and, if
able to attend, shall be produced at the hearing, and, if not
able to attend by reason of physical or other inability, such
inability shall be established by the affidavit or certificate of
a duly licensed medical practitioner. Whenever a notice to any
officer or agency of this state or of the United States would
be required upon a petition for the appointment of a guardian
of an alleged incompetent person a like notice shall be given
of a petition under this chapter. Any such officer or agency
or any relative or friend of such person or the proposed con-
servatee may appear and oppose the petition.
  SEC. 38. Section 1755 of the Probate Code is amended to
read:
  1755. Every conservatorship shall continue until the au-
thority of the conservator is terminated by the death of the
conservator or by order of court, or, subject to the duty of
the conservator to see to the custody and conservation of the
estate pending the delivery thereof to the personal representa-
                    1969
Ch 1611]                   R E 0 1 1 1 ^ 1 1 SESSION       3403

tive of the eonservatee's estate, by the death of the conserva-
tee. Any conservator, the eonservatee, or any relative or friend
of the eonservatee may apply by verified petition to the su-
perior court of the county in which the proceedings are pend-
ing to have the conservatorship terminated. The petition shall
state the facts alleged to establish that the conservatorship is
no longer required. The petition shall be set for hearing and
notice thereof given to the persons and in the same manner
as is provided in this chapter for a petition for the appoint-
ment of a conservator. The conservator in such case, if he is
not the petitioner or has not joined in the petition, shall be
served with a notice of the time and place of the hearing ac-
companied by a copy of the petition at least five (5) days prior
to the hearing. Such service shall be made in the manner pro-
vided for in Section 415.10 or 415.30 of the Code of Civil
Procedure or in such manner as may be authorized by the
court. If the conservator cannot, with reasonable diligence, be
so served with notice, the court may dispense with such notice.
The conservator or any relative or friend of the eonservatee
may appear and oppose the petition. The court shall hear and
determine the matter according to the laws and procedure re-
lating to the trial of civil action, including trial by jury if
demanded. If it is determined that the conservatorship is no
longer required, the conservatorship shall cease. If the petition
alleges and if it is determined that the eonservatee is able to
properly care for himself and for his property the court shall
make such finding and enter judgment accordingly. The con-
servator may at the hearing, or thereafter on further notice
and hearing, be discharged and his bond exonerated upon the
settlement and approval of his final account by the court.
    SEC. 39. Section 3599 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
    3599. The summons shall contain the matters required by
 Section 412.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure and in addition
a description of the property and a statement of the object of
the action. The defendants shall be designated as in the com-
plaint.
    Copies of the original summons may be issued containing
a description of any portion of the real property less than
the total described in the original complaint and summons.
    SEC. 40. Section 3601 of the Bevenue and Taxation Code
 is amended to read:
    3601. If the affidavit discloses any defendants whose ad-
 dress is known to the district attorney, service on such de-
 fendants shall be made by any of the following:
    (a) Delivering a copy of the summons to the defendant
personally.
    (b) Leaving a copy of the summons with a person over the
 age of 16 years at the usual place of residence or business of
 the defendant, or, if there is no person over 16 years of age
present at the time service is made, by posting the copy of the
3404               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               rQ^ JgU

summons in a conspicuous place at the usual place of resi-
dence or business.
   (c) If neither the usual place of residence nor the usual
place of business of the defendant is in the county in which
the action is brought, the court may direct the copy of the
summons to be sent to the defendant by mail to his usual place
of residence or business.
   SEC. 41. Section 3602 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   3602. All other defendants shall be served by publication
as provided for in Section 415.50 of the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure, but the affidavit need only state that the district attor-
ney does not know and has not been informed of the where-
abouts of any defendant who cannot be found.
   SEC. 42. Section 3957 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   3957. Any summons that is issued shall contain the matters
required by Section 412.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
and in addition, a description of the property and a statement
of the object of the action. In the summons, the unknown
defendants shall be designated as they are in the complaint.
   SEC. 43. Section 3959 of the Eevenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   3959. All known defendants shall be served in the manner
provided by law for the service of a summons in a civil action.
   SEC. 44. Section 3960 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
is amended to read:
   3960. All unknown defendants shall be served by publica-
tion as provided for in Section 415.50 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, but it must appear by affidavit that the plaintiff
used reasonable diligence to ascertain the identity of the un-
known defendants and to ascertain the identity of any per-
sons sued as heirs and devisees.
   SEC. 45. Section 6611 of the Streets and Highways Code
is amended to read:
   6611. The action may be brought also at any time follow-
ing the expiration of 30 days after the service of personal de-
mand for payment upon the owner of the premises. Such de-
mand shall be served in the manner provided by law for
the service of a summons in a civil action. If the action is
brought costs for the service of the demand shall be allowed
in an amount equivalent to the fees prescribed by law for the
service of summons.
   The demand shall be in substantially the following form:

       "Demand for Payment of Street Improvement Bond
   You are hereby notified that Bond No.            Series No.
           for an improvement in the City (or County) of
           is delinquent. Unless the amount of the unpaid
principal on said bond together with interest and penalties
is paid to the city (or county) treasurer on or before 30 days
                    1969
Ch. 1611]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3405

after the service on you of this demand, the date of such
service being this            day of           , 19 , the under-
signed will institute suit to foreclose the lien of said bond in
the manner prescribed by law.''
   SEC. 46. Sections 1 to 51, inclusive, of this act shall be-
come operative only if Senate Bill No. 503 of the 1969 Eegular
Session is enacted, and, in such case, at the same time as
Senate Bill No. 503 becomes operative. Section 52 of this act
shall become operative only if S.B. 503 is enacted, and shall
become operative on the 61st day after adjournment of the
1969 Eegular Session of the Legislature.
   SEC. 47. Section 3.5 of this act shall become operative
only if S.B. 316 of the 1969 Eegular Session is enacted and
adds Section 3241 to the Civil Code, and in such ease, shall
become operative at the same time as S.B. 316 becomes opera-
tive, at which time Section 1200.1 of the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure as amended by Section 26 of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 48. Except as otherwise provided in Section 50, it
is the intent of the Legislature, if the amendments to Section
585 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by both this bill
and S.B. 574 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 585 in the form set forth in
Section 6.3 of this act. Therefore, in the event S.B. 574 is
enacted and amends Section 585, Section 6.3 of this act shall
become operative at the same time as Sections 1 to 51, inclu-
sive, of this act become operative, and at that time, Section
585 of the Code of Civil Procedure as amended by Section 6
of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 49. Except as otherwise provided in Section 50, it
is the intent of the Legislature, if the amendments to Section
585 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by both this bill
and A.B. 1706 are enacted, that both amendments be given
effect and incorporated in Section 585 in the form set forth
in Section 6.5 of this act. Therefore, in the event A.B. 1706
is enacted and amends Section 585, Section 6.5 of this act shall
become operative at the same time as Sections 1 to 51, inclu-
sive, of this act become operative, and at that time. Section
585 of the Code of Civil Procedure as amended by Section 6
of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 50. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if the amend-
ments to Section 585 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed
by this bill, S.B. 574, and A.B. 1706 are enacted, that all such
amendments be given effect and incorporated in Section 585
in the form set forth in Section 6.7 of this act. Therefore, in
the event both S.B. 574 and A.B. 1706 are enacted and amend
Section 585, Section 6.7 of this act shall become operative at
the same time as Sections 1 to 51, inclusive, of this act become
operative, and at that time, Section 585 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, as amended by Sections 6, 6.3, and 6.5 of this act,
is repealed.
   SEC. 51. I t is the intent of the Legislature, if the amend-
ments to Section 586 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed
3406               STATUTES O F CALIFORNIA                 rQJj_ 1 6 1 2

by both this bill and S.B. 574 are enacted, that both amend-
ments be given effect and incorporated in Section 586 in the
form set forth in Section 7.5 of this act. Therefore, in the event
S.B. 574 is enacted and amends Section 586, Section 7.5 of this
act shall become operative at the same time that Sections 1 to
51, inclusive, of this act become operative, and at that time,
Section 586 of the Code of Civil Procedure as amended by
Section 7 of this act is repealed.
   SEC. 52. I n the event of the enactment of either S.B. 574
or A.B. 1706, or of both S.B. 574 and A.B. 1706, it is the in-
tention of the Legislature that the amendments to Section 585
or 586 of the Code of Civil Procedure proposed by either or
both of such bills, as the case may be, shall be operative until
Sections 1 to 51, inclusive, of this act become operative, at
which time Sections 585 and 586 of the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure as amended by either or both such bills, as the case may
be, shall no longer be operative. Nothing in this section shall
be construed as affecting the application of Section 9605 of
the Government Code to the enactment of both S.B. 574 and
A.B. 1706 in the event both such bills are enacted.


                        CHAPTBE 1612
An act to amend Section 6812.5 of the Education Code,
  relating to the education of physically handicapped mi-
  nors, declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immedi-
  ately.
         [Approved by Governor September 5, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6812.5 of the Education Code is
amended to read:
   6812.5. Minors who are deaf, severely hard of hearing, or
blind, as determined by the State Board of Education, and
who are between the ages of 18 months and 3 years, may be
enrolled in experimental programs conducted by a school dis-
trict or county superintendent of schools. Experimental pro-
grams for such minors shall be approved in advance by the
Superintendent of Public Instruction and shall be conducted
in accordance with rules and regulations established by him.
Instruction in such experimental programs shall be afforded
by a teacher possessing full qualifications to teach deaf,
severely hard-of-hearing, or blind pupils as prescribed by
rules and regulations of the State Board of Education.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary,
attendance of deaf and severely hard-of-hearing minors en-
rolled in experimental programs authorized by this section
shall be credited to the school district or county superintendent
                     1969
Ch. 1613]                   REGULAR SESSION                        3407

of schools providing such instruction in the same manner as
authorized for minors receiving special schooling pursuant to
this chapter and Article 9 (commencing with Section 8901)
of Chapter 6 of Division 7.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary,
computations of allowances and apportionments from the State
School Fund for deaf and severely hard-of-hearing minors en-
rolled in experimental programs authorized by this section
shall be credited to the district or county superintendent of
schools providing such instruction in the same manner as au-
thorized for minors receiving special schooling pursuant to
this chapter and Article 9 (commencing with Section 8901)
of Chapter 6 of Division 7.
  Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary,
physically handicapped minors as prescribed in Section 8955.2
shall include deaf and severely hard-of-hearing minors en-
rolled in experimental programs authorized by this section.
   SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall
go into immediate effect. The facts constituting such necessity
are:
   In order for the programs to be offered to blind minors un-
der this act at the beginning of the school year and for the
necessary personnel to be hired before the beginning of the
programs, it is necessary that this act go into immediate effect.


                         CHAPTER 1613
     An act to amend Section 7.6 of the Government             Code,
                relating to government officers.
         [Approved by Governor September 5, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 7.6 of the Government Code is amended
to read:
   7.6. Whenever, by any law, any officer whose office is
created by the Constitution is made a member of a state board,
commission, or committee, or of the governing body of any
state agency or authority, such officer may designate a deputy
of his office holding a position specified in subsection (5) or
subsection (6) of subdivision (a) of Section 4 of Article X X I V
of the Constitution to act as such member in his place and
stead, to all intents and purposes as though he were personally
present, including the right of the deputy to be counted in
constituting a quorum, to participate in the proceedings of the
board, commission, committee or other governing body, a n d to
vote upon any and all matters. The constitutional officer so
3408               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Qh. 1 6 1 4

designating a deputy shall be responsible for the acts of the
deputy acting under such designation in the same manner and
to the same extent that the constitutional officer is responsible
for the acts of the deputy performing his official duties as a
deputy of the office of the constitutional officer.
   The Lieutenant Governor may designate any person in his
office holding a position specified in subsection (5) of sub-
division (a) of Section 4 of Article X X I V of the Constitution
to act as a deputy for the purposes of this section only, pro-
vided that the Lieutenant Governor may not appoint a person
to act as a deputy for him at meetings of the Senate, or the
State Lands Commission, or of the Regents of the University
of California, or of the Trustees of the California State Col-
leges.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, not
more than one officer subject to this section shall be represented
by a deputy subject to this section at any meeting or session
of the State Lands Commission.


                        CHAPTER 1614
An act to amend Section 8046 of the Fish and Game Code,
  relating to the Marine Research Committee and the support
  thereof.
         [Approved by Governor September 5, 1969. Filed with
                Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 8046 of the Fish and Game Code is
amended to read -.
   8046. Every person operating under a license pursuant to
this article shall, in addition to the license fee and the tax
imposed by Section 8045, pay a privilege tax of five cents
($0.05) for each 100 pounds, or fraction thereof, of sardines,
Pacific mackerel, jack mackerel, squid, herring, or anchovies
purchased, received, or taken by him until December 31, 1970.
  The money shall be deposited in the Fish and Game Preser-
vation Fund for use by the Marine Research Committee pur-
suant to Sections 729 and 730.
   The committee shall pay the department for accounting and
other services rendered to the committee by the department.
The fiscal year cost of such services shall not be in excess of
2 percent of the money so collected each fiscal year under this
section.
  SEC. 2. The Marine Research Committee shall not be af-
fected by the provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969.
The Legislative Counsel shall exclude any provisions of Re-
organization Plan No. 1 of 1969 affecting the Marine Research
Committee in preparing the bill required pursuant to Section
12081 of the Government Code.
                      1969
Ch. 16161                    REGULAR SESSION                     3409

                         CHAPTER 1615
An act to amend Section 85 of, to add Section 216 to, and to
  repeal Section 196b of, the Civil Code, relating to children.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

  SECTION 1. Section 85 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   85. The issue of a marriage which is void or annulled or
dissolved by divorce is legitimate.
  As used in this section, " i s s u e " includes any child within
Section 216.
  SEC. 1.5. Section 196b of the Civil Code is repealed.
  SEC. 2. Section 216 is added to the Civil Code, to read:
  216. A child born to a woman as a result of conception
through artificial insemination to which her husband has con-
sented in writing, is legitimate if the birth occurs during the
marriage or within 300 days after the marriage has been dis-
solved.

                         CHAPTER 1616
An act to add Section 4709 to the Lai or Code, relating to
  college scholarships for dependents of peace officers, and
  making an appropriation    therefor.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

  I object to the $11,000 appropriation in Assembly Bill No. 473, and I
hereby eliminate this appropriation from the bill.
  With this deletion, I approve the bill.
                                          RONALD REAGAN, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 4709 is added to the Labor Code, to
read:
  4709. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the
contrary, each dependent of any chief of police, police officer,
sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal or deputy marshal of the mu-
nicipal courts, or member of the California Highway Patrol
who is killed in the performance of his duty or who dies as a
result of an accident or an injury caused by external violence
or physical force, incurred in the performance of his duty,
when such death, accident or injury is compensable under this
division or Division 4.5 (commencing with Section 6100) of
this code, shall be entitled to a scholarship for a state college
or any university in the State of California to include payment
of tuition, monthly allowance, books and supplies, to a maxi-
mum of six thousand dollars ($6,000) over a period not to
3410                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [(fa   J617

exceed six years, with a maximum of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500) per year if he has demonstrated his financial
need for such scholarship. This shall not preclude any other
benefits provided by law.
   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to allow the ad-
mittance of such dependent into a state college or university
unless such dependent is otherwise qualified to gain admittance
to such college or university.
   As used in this section, " d e p e n d e n t " means the children
 (natural or adopted), at the time of his death, of the peace
officer who is killed, or who receives injuries which result in
his subsequent death.
    The scholarships provided by this section shall be paid out
 of funds appropriated to the State Scholarship and Loan Com-
mission established by Chapter 3 (commencing with Section
 31201) of Division 22 of the Education Code, and the commis-
sion shall adopt the necessary regulations therefor.
   SEC. 2. There is hereby appropriated from the General
Fund in the State Treasury the sum of eleven thousand dol-
lars ($11,000) to the State Scholarship and Loan Commission
for the purposes of this act.


                         CHAPTER 1617
An act to add Article 2.6 (commencing with Section 13245)
  to Chapter 2 of Division 10 of the Education Code, relating
  to the public schools, and making an appropriation therefor.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Filed with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

  I object to the $100,000 appropriation contained in Assembly Bill No.
741, and I hereby reduce this appropriation from $100,000 to $10,000.
  With this reduction, I approve the bill.
                                           RONALD REAGAN, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Article 2.6 (commencing with Section 13245)
is added to Chapter 2 of Division 10 of the Education Code, to
read:

    Article 2.6.   The Certified Master Teacher Law of 1970
   13245. I t is the intent and purpose of the Legislature, by
the provisions of this article, to encourage teachers employed
in the public schools to attain excellence in their profession,
and to provide them with incentives to that end in the form of
both special recognition and material reward.
   The Legislature has determined that in the education of our
youth the role of the teacher is paramount, and that all other
functions in school operation are secondary and supportive to
 the teacher's role. I t has come to the attention of the Legis-
                    1969
Ch. 1617]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3411

lature that in recent years the departure from the classroom of
eminently qualified teachers has occurred at an alarmingly ac-
celerated pace, and that such persons have felt compelled to
enter upon nonteaching careers in order to secure the personal
recognition and material rewards which their ability as educa-
tors can command. The provisions of this article are directed,
therefore, to the restoration of the teacher and the teaching
profession, as such, to their rightful position of primary im-
portance in the structure of the educational system.
   13246. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shall es-
tablish a three-year master teacher selection pilot program in
two school districts designated by a committee consisting of
the superintendent, the Director of Finance, a Senator ap-
pointed by the Senate Eules Committee, and an Assemblyman
appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly.. The pilot program
shall commence on September 1, 1970, and shall terminate on
August 31, 1973, and shall be implemented in accordance with
the following schedule:
    (a) 1969-1970, organization of the program and selection
of master teachers.
    (b) 1970-1971, payment of the extra stipend to selected
master teachers and selection of additional teachers.
    (c) 1971-1972, payment of the extra stipend to all teachers
certified as master teachers and evaluation of the program.
    The designated school districts shall be unified school dis-
tricts which have certificated teaching staffs of not less than
200 nor more than 650, excluding those involved in adult edu-
cation, who spend 80 percent of their teaching time in the
classroom. The two unified school districts shall be located in
separate geographical areas of the state.
    13246.1. The Members of the Legislature appointed to the
committee pursuant to Section 13246 shall meet with, and par-
ticipate in, the work of the committee to the extent that such
participation is not incompatible with their positions as Mem-
bers of the Legislature. The Members of the Legislature ap-
pointed to the committee shall serve at the pleasure of the
appointing power. For purposes of this article, such Members
of the Legislature shall constitute a joint legislative committee
on the subject of this article and shall have the powers and
duties imposed upon such committee by the Joint Rules of
the Senate and Assembly.
    13246.5. A master teacher selection panel shall be estab-
lished by the county superintendent of schools in each of the
counties where the school districts are located. Each panel shall
be composed of the following members:
    (a) One member of the governing board of the school dis-
trict, selected by the governing board.
    (b) One administrator who is a superintendent or principal
in the school district, selected by the governing board.
    (c) Two elementary certificated employees of the school dis-
 trict who spend 80 percent of their teaching time in the class-
3412               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Cft   1617

 room, selected by the elementary certificated employees of the
 school district voting in a secret ballot election held not later
than October 15, 1970.
     (d) Two secondary certificated employees of the school dis-
 trict who spend 80 percent of their teaching time in the class-
 room, selected by the secondary certificated employees of the
 school district voting in a secret ballot election held not later
 than October 15, 1970.
    (e) Two public members who are not officers or employees
of the school district, selected by the county superintendent of
schools.
    The county superintendent of schools shall serve as the
chairman of the panel.
    Any vacancies on the panel shall be filled by the appropri-
 ate appointing authority in the manner specified, in this section.
    13247. The criteria for the selection of certified master
 teachers shall be established by the panel and shall require at
least:
    (a) A master's degree in an academic field, or the equiva-
 lent, to be determined by the master teacher selection panel,
of a master's degree in vocational subjects for which master's
degrees are not usually awarded, or successful completion of
the competence examination prescribed in Assembly Bill 740
of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature, if enacted;
    (b) Eight years of total teaching experience, with four
years of teaching experience in the district;
    (c) The demonstration of distinctly superior teaching
ability.
    13247.5. The criteria for the selection of certified master
teachers shall be published by the Superintendent of Public
Instruction and shall be available free of charge to all certifi-
cated employees of the school districts designated to partici-
pate in this pilot program.
    13247.8. Each master teacher selection panel shall receive
applications, to be filed by January 1 of the school year, from
public school teachers, submitted in the form prescribed by
the panel and accompanied by a one-hundred-dollar ($100)
fee, requesting that the applicant be certified as a certified
master teacher.
    13247.9. The master teacher selection panel shall appoint
for each applicant for a master certificate not less than two,
nor more than three, certificated employees from a school dis-
trict other than the participating school district and who spend
at least four-fifths of their teaching time in a classroom, who
shall inquire into the professional competence of the appli-
cant. The appointed certificated employees need not be resi-
dents of the county in which the participating school district
is located. These appointed certificated employees shall be
known as examiner teachers and shall be appointed by Febru-
ary 1 of the school year.
                     1969
Ch. 1617]                   REGULAR SESSION                 3413

    The examiner teachers shall sign affidavits stating that they
 have no specific knowledge of the applicant for certification as
 master teachers, either personally or professionally.
    The examiner teachers shall make a written report on the
 applicant's professional competence to the county superintend-
 ent of schools and the master teacher selection panel not later
 than June 1st of the school year.
    The examiner teachers shall talk with other teachers in the
 school where the applicant is employed, other teachers in the
 school district, the principal of the school where the applicant
 is employed, and other administrators, parents, and students
 who may have specific knowledge of the applicant's profes-
 sional qualities. The examiner teacher shall also consider evi-
 dence of relative gains made by pupils taught by the appli-
 cant, as measured by standardized tests.
   Upon a favorable recommendation by the examiner teachers,
the master teacher selection panel, by majority vote of those
present and voting, shall issue a certificate designating the
applicant as a certificated master teacher.
   The examiner teachers shall be reimbursed for travel in con-
nection with such inquiry at a rate to be determined by the
county superintendent of schools. Examiner teachers shall be
granted time off without loss of pay for not to exceed three
schooldays during any school year. The employing school dis-
trict shall be reimbursed by the county superintendent of
schools of the county of the master teacher selection panel for
the salary of substitute teachers hired for the examiner teach-
ers.
   13248. Any school district which employs a certified master
teacher shall pay the teacher an additional stipend of four
thousand dollars ($4,000) per school year over and above the
regular salary which would otherwise be paid to the teacher.
   From moneys appropriated therefor, the Superintendent of
Public Instruction shall order reimbursements to be made in
each fiscal year to each school district the total of additional
stipends paid to certified master teachers in such fiscal year by
the district.
   13249. The governing board of any school district partici-
pating in the program may receive and expend funds from
any other public or private agency for purposes of this article.
   13249.5. On or before the fifth legislative day of the 1973
Regular Session, the designated school districts through the
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall submit to the Leg-
islature a comprehensive report on all phases of the experi-
mental program provided by this article, and shall include
therein his recommendations relating to the establishment of
the certified master teacher program throughout the state.
   SEC. 2. The sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,-
000) is hereby appropriated from the General F u n d in the
State Treasury to the Superintendent of Public Instruction for
purposes of this act for the 1969-1970 and 1970-1971 fiscal
3414                STATUTES OS* CALIFORNIA                     tQ^   \Q18

years, with a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) allo-
cated for administrative expenses in administering this act.
   Federal funds received for purposes of this act and any
examination and application fees received pursuant to this
act, shall be deemed to be in augmentation of the appropria-
tion and the disposition and expenditure thereof shall be in
accordance with the laws applicable to the appropriation.


                         CHAPTER 1618
An act to amend Section 210 of the Health and Safety Code,
  relating to drug abuse research, and making an appropria-
  tion therefor.
          [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                 Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

  I object to the $85,000 appropriation contained in Assembly Bill No.
2204, and I hereby reduce this appropriation from $85,000 to $30,000.
  "With this reduction, I approve the bill.
                                            RONALD REAGAN, Governor

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 210 of the Health and Safety Code is
amended to read:
   210. The Regents of the University of California may col-
lect, and act as an information exchange for, information on
research and service projects completed or in progress relating
to drug abuse, may provide, to any person, institution or pub-
lic agency proposing any research or service project on such
subject, information with respect to the areas in which research
is needed, and may evaluate programs of research, treatment,
and education with respect to drug abuse. No state agency
shall conduct any research or service project on drug abuse
until it has provided the regents with a description of its pro-
posed project.
   The regents annually shall submit to the Governor and the
Legislature, not later than the fifth legislative day of the
regular session of the Legislature, a report of the activities it
undertakes pursuant to this section, including specific recom-
mendations with respect to evaluation of programs of research,
treatment, and education, with respect to drug abuse.
   SEC. 2. The sum of eighty-five thousand dollars ($85,000)
is appropriated to the Regents of the University of California
from the General Fund for expenditure in implementing the
changes made in Section 210 of the Health and Safety Code
by this act.
                        1969
Ch. 1619]                      REGULAR SESSION                    34^5

                           CHAPTER 1619
An act to add Section 6560.2 to the Business and Professions
          Code, relating to the practice of barbering.
            [Approved by Governor September 6, 1969. Filed with
                   Secretary of State September 7, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:

   SECTION 1. Section 6560.2 is added to the Business and
Professions Code, to read:
   6560.2. (a) Notwithstanding any provision of this chap-
ter, any licensed cosmetologieal establishment in this state
which immediately prior to November 8, 1967, represented
itself to the public as being primarily engaged in serving
patrons with both cosmetologieal services and barbering serv-
ices, including representations that it performed haircutting
on males or females, or both males and females, may make
such representations to the public if such establishment ap-
plies for and obtains a certificate to conduct a barbershop as
provided in subdivision (b).
   (b) Upon proof satisfactory to the board that the establish-
ment has complied with Sections 6549.1 and 6549.6 and with
subdivision (a) of this section, the board shall issue a certifi-
cate to operate a barbershop.
   (c) Upon proof satisfactory to the board, any licensed cos-
metologist who had been engaged in performing acts of bar-
bering in an establishment as defined in subdivision (a) of
this section for a period of at least one year immediately prior
to November 8, 1967, may apply for and shall be issued a
certificate to practice barbering upon paying the required fee.
   (d) For the purpose of this section, barbering services or
acts of barbering means haircutting plus one or more of the
following acts: shampooing, scalp massaging, scalp treatments,
using oils or lotions, or arranging, dressing, curling, waving,
dyeing, bleaching, or other combinations of acts as set forth
in Section 6520.
   (e) No application for a certificate under this section shall
be received after the expiration of 90 days from the effective
date of this section.
CONCURRENT AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS AND
     CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS



       REGULAR SESSION
             1969
CONCURRENT AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS AND
     CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
      Adopted at the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature



                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 1

Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 6—Approving an amend-
  ment to the Charter of the City of Alameda, a municipal
  corporation in the County of Alameda, State of California,
  voted for and ratified by the qualified electors of said city
  at a special municipal charter amendment election of the
  City of Alameda held therein on the fifth day of November,
  1968, which said election was duly consolidated with the
  general election of the State of California held on said date.
          [Filed with Secretary of State J a n u a r y 15, 1969.]

   "WHEEEAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption and ratification of an amendment to the Char-
ter of the City of Alameda, a municipal corporation in the
County of Alameda, State of California, as hereinafter set
forth in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of said
city, as follows:

CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
        ALAMEDA OF A CEETAIN CHARTER AMENDMENT

State of California "1
County of Alameda \ ss.
City of Alameda      J

   "We, the undersigned, "William M. McCall, Mayor of the City
of Alameda, and Shirley H. Tennier, City Clerk of the City of
Alameda, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Alameda, a municipal corporation in the
County of Alameda, State of California, now is and at all
times herein mentioned was a city containing a population of
more than three thousand five hundred (3,500), and ever since
the 5th day of May, 1937 has been and is now organized, exist-
ing and acting under a freeholders' charter adopted under
and by virtue of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution
of the State of California, which charter was duly ratified
by the qualified electors of said City at an election held for
that purpose on the 29th day of April, 1937, and approved

                                 (3419)
3420              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ReS. Ch. 1

by the Legislature of the State of California by concurrent
resolution filed with the Secretary of State on the 5th day
of May, 1937 (Statutes of 1937, page 2880).
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
Council of the City of Alameda, being the legislative body
thereof, on its own motion by Eesolution No. 7371, adopted on
August 20, 1968, duly and regularly submitted to the qualified
electors of said City one proposal to amend the Charter of the
City of Alameda and to be voted on by said qualified electors
at a special municipal charter amendment election by said
Resolution called for said purpose in said City on the 5th
day of November, 1968, and consolidated with the General
Election of the State of California held on said date.
   The said proposal was published and advertised, in accord-
ance with the provisions of Section 8 of Article X I of the
 Constitution of the State of California and in accordance with
the provisions of the Charter of the City of Alameda, on the
23rd day of September, 1968, in the Alameda Times-Star, a
newspaper of general circulation published daily except Sun-
 day in the said City of Alameda and the official newspaper
 of said City, and in each edition thereof during said day of
 publication.
   The said Council caused a copy of said proposal to be
 printed in convenient pamphlet form and in type of not less
 than ten-point, and caused copies thereof to be mailed to each
 of the qualified electors of said City, and, beginning on Octo-
 ber 1, 1968, advertised in said Alameda Times-Star daily, ex-
 cept Sunday, until the day fixed for said election, a notice that
 copies of said proposal could be had on application therefor
 at the office of the City Clerk of said City and that printed
 copies of said proposal were on hand and could be had on
 application therefor at said office of said City Clerk from
 October 1, 1968, up to and including the day fixed for said
 election.
    The said special municipal charter amendment election of
 the City of Alameda, consolidated as aforesaid, was duly called,
 held and conducted in the time, form and manner required
 by the Charter of the said City and by law on said 5th day of
 November, 1968, which day was not less than forty (40) and
 not more than sixty (60) days after the completion of said
 publication and advertisement of said proposal in said Ala-
 meda Times-Star.
    That the Council of said City of Alameda did, in the manner
 provided by law, duly and regularly canvass all ballots cast at
 said special municipal charter amendment election of the City
 of Alameda, consolidated as aforesaid, and did, by resolution
 duly adopted on December 3, 1968, duly find and declare that
 a majority of the qualified voters voting on said proposal voted
 in favor thereof and that said proposal to amend the Charter
 of said City was ratified.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 1]                REGXJLAR SESSION                 3421

   That a majority of the qualified voters voting on said pro-
posal voted in favor of the ratification of and did ratify said
proposal to amend said Charter of said City.
   That said Charter amendment so ratified by the majority
of the qualified voters of said City voting at said special mu-
nicipal charter amendment election is in the words and figures
following, to-wit:
                        Charter Measure
   By adopting a new Section 11-2 of Article X I of said
Charter, which reads as follows:
   "Sec. 11-2. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Charter to the contrary, the matters contained in this section
shall be controlling as to the Board of Education. Commencing
April 15, 1969, and thereafter, the Board of Education shall
consist of five members elected by the qualified electors of the
City at large, at the time, in the manner, and with the quali-
fications provided elsewhere in this Charter for the qualifica-
tion, nomination and election of other elective officers of the
City, and shall serve a term of four years thereafter and until
their successors are elected and qualified.
   "Of the five members of the Board of Education elected
at the 1969 General Municipal Election, the three who receive
the highest number of votes cast shall each serve an initial
term of four years, and the two who receive the next two high-
est number of votes cast shall each serve an initial term of two
years. At subsequent General Municipal Elections, either two
or three members of said Board, as the case may be, shall be
elected for four-year terms to fill the vacancies caused by the
expiration of the terms of the members.
   " A vacancy on the Board of Education, arising otherwise
than as provided in Article XX, shall be filled by appointment
by said Board, said appointee to hold office for the term pro-
vided in Section 2-8 of this Charter. After any vacancy in the
office of member of said Board has continued for twenty-one
days, the vacancy shall be filled by the Council.
   " I t is hereby declared to be the intent of this section that
the only changes to be effected by its terms are to make the
Board of Education elective, rather than appointed, and to
provide the manner in which the members thereof shall be
elected. Except to the extent that they are inconsistent with
the provisions of this section, other provisions of this Charter
relating to the Board of Education and other elective officers
shall apply to the Board of Education provided for by this
section."

  And we, and each of us, further certify that we have com-
pared the foregoing proposed and ratified amendment to the
Charter of the City of Alameda with the original proposal
submitting the same to the electors of said City and find that
the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of said amend-
ment.
3422                 STATUTES OF CALIFOENIA                     [Res. Ch. 2

   The foregoing proposed and ratified amendment to the
Charter of the City of Alameda is hereby submitted to the
Legislature of the State of California for approval or rejec-
tion as a whole without power of alteration or amendment in
accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Article X I of
the Constitution of the State of California. As to said amend-
ment, this Certificate shall be taken as a full and complete
certification of the regularity of all proceedings had and done
in connection therewith.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of Alameda to be affixed hereto this
18th day of December, 1968.

                             "WILLIAM M. MCCALL
   (SEAL)                    Mayor of the City of Alameda
                             SHIRLEY H. TENNIER
                             City Clerk of the City of Alameda

   WHEREAS, The said proposed charter amendment as ratified
as hereinabove set forth has been and is now duly presented
and submitted to the Legislature of the State of California
for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of alter-
ation in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Consti-
tution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Besolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendment to the Charter of the City of Alameda,
as proposed to and adopted and ratified by the electors of said
city, as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same is hereby
approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for
and as amendment to and as part of the Charter of said City
of Alameda.

                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 2
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 7—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of Seal Beach, County of
  Orange, State of California, ratified by the qualified electors
  of the city at a special municipal election held therein on
  the fifth day of November, 1968.
            [Filed with Secretary of State January 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of amendments to the Charter
of the City of Seal Beach, a municipal corporation in the
County of Orange, State of California, as hereinafter set forth
in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city, as
follows:
                    1969
Res. Ch. 2]                REGULAR SESSION                 3423

CERTIFICATION OF RATIFICATION BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
  SEAL BEACH, CALIFORNIA, OF A CERTAIN CHARTER AMEND-
  MENT

State of California ]
County of Orange j- ss
City of Seal Beach J

    We, the undersigned, Lloyd E. Gummere, Mayor of the City
of Seal Beach, County of Orange, State of California, and
Jerdys Weir, City Clerk of the City of Seal Beach, do hereby
certify and declare as follows:
    That the City of Seal Beach, a municipal corporation of
the County of Orange, State of California, now is and at all
times herein mentioned was, a city having a population of
more than thirty-five hundred (3,500) inhabitants and less than
fifty thousand (50,000) inhabitants, and has been, since Feb-
ruary 10, 1964, and is now organized and acting under a
Charter adopted under and by virtue of Section 8, Article
XI of the Constitution of the State of California, which
Charter was duly ratified by a majority of the qualified elec-
tors of such City at a special election held for that purpose
on the 7th day of January, 1964, and approved by the Legis-
lature of the State of California by concurrent resolution
filed with the Secretary of State on the 10th day of February,
1964.
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8, Article
XI of the Constitution of the State of California, on its own
motion, the Council of the City of Seal Beach, being the legis-
lative body thereof, duly and regularly submitted to the
qualified electors of the said City of Seal Beach a certain
proposal for the amendment of the Charter of said City, to
be voted upon by said qualified electors at a Special Municipal
Election held as provided for by law, in said City on the 5th
day of November, 1968, which said proposal was designated
as Proposed Charter Amendment.
    That said proposed amendment was posted according to
law and was advertised in accordance with Section 8 of Article
XI of the Constitution of the State of California, on the 25th
day of September, 1968, in the Marina News, a newspaper of
general circulation circulated in said City.
    That said proposed charter amendment was submitted to
the electors of said City for adoption and ratification at a
special municipal election duly and regularly held in said
 City of Seal Beach on the fifth day of November, 1968, which
said date was not less than forty more than sixty days after
the completion of the posting and the advertising in the above-
mentioned newspaper of the proposed charter amendment.
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Elections Code of
the State of California, the Council of the City of Seal Beach
had adopted, on August 24, 1968, a Resolution Number 1706
    108—1954
3424              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [Res. Ch. 2

wherein it requested the Board of Supervisors of Orange
County, California, to order the consolidation of said special
municipal election with the state-wide general election held in
said County on November 5, 1968; that said consolidation had
been so ordered by said Board of Supervisors; and that said
special municipal election was so consolidated with said state-
wide general election held in said county on said date.
   That at said special municipal election a majority of the
qualified electors voting upon said proposed charter amendment
voted in favor of the amendment and adopted and ratified
the same.
   That said Amendment to the Charter so ratified by the
electors of the City of Seal Beach is in words and figures as
follows:
   "Shall the proposed Amendment to the City Charter be
adopted amending Sections 501, 802, and 803 to provide for
the holding of primary municipal elections on the last Tues-
day of March, or such other day as may be set by ordinance,
in each even numbered year commencing with the year 1970,
and for the fixing of terms of members of boards and com-
missions by ordinance.''
   That the Charter shall be worded as follows:
   Section 501. Primary Nominating Elections.
   Primary nominating elections shall be held in the City of
Seal Beach on the last Tuesday in March in each even-num-
bered year commencing with the year 1970; provided, how-
ever, that by ordinance of the City Council, another day in
the months of March or April of any even-numbered year may
be fixed.
   Section 802. Appointments. Terms.
   The number of members to comprise such boards and com-
missions shall be specified by ordinance if not specified by this
Charter. The members of each of such boards are commissioned
and appointed and shall be subject to removal by motion of
the City Council adopted by at least three affirmative votes.
The members thereof shall be appointed from the qualified
electors of the City, none of whom shall hold any paid office
or employment in the City government and shall serve for
terms to be fixed by ordinance, and until their respective
successors are appointed and qualified.
   Section 803. Existing Boards.
   The members of the boards and commissions holding office
when this Charter takes effect shall continue to hold office
thereafter until their respective terms of office shall expire
and until their successors shall be appointed and qualified.
The successors of such members shall be appointed for terms
as prescribed in the preceding section.

  That we have compared the foregoing amendment with the
original proposal submitting the same to the electors of said
City and find that the foregoing is a full, true, correct, and
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 21                REGULAR SESSION                3425

exact copy thereof; we further certify that the facts set forth
in the preamble preceding such amendment to said Charter
are, and each of them is, true.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the corporate seal of said City of Seal Beach to be
affixed hereto this 30th day of December, 1968

                             LLOYD E. GUMMERE
  (SEAL)                     Mayor of the City of Seal Beach
                              California
Attest:
  JBBDYS W E I R
  City Clerk

  CERTIFICATE OP COUNTY CLERK TO RESULT OP THE CANVASS
               OP GENERAL ELECTION RETURNS

State of California )
County of Orange )
  I, W. E. St John, County Clerk of Orange County, do
hereby certify the following to be a full, true and correct
Statement of the Vote of the City of Seal Beach Special
Municipal Election consolidated with the General Election
held November 5,1968.

            Measure Q—Proposed Charter Amendment
                         Yes: 9,481
                         N o : 1,941
  I hereby further certify that the whole number of votes
cast for and against each measure as is set forth above ap-
pears in the Certified Abstract of Statement of the Vote
entered in the Records of the Proceedings of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Orange, said records now in my
custody.
  Witness my hand and Official Seal this 29th day of No-
vember, 1968.
                            W. E. S T JOHN, County Clerk
   (SEAL)                      By M. J. MAYER
                               Deputy

                           Exhibit " A "
and
  WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, have been and
now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of
California for approval or rejection, as a whole without power
of alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California;
now, therefore, be it
3426               STATUTES OF CALIPORNIA                      [Ees. Ch. 3

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendments to the Charter of the City of Seal
Beach, County of Orange, as proposed to, and adopted and
ratified by, the electors of the city, as hereinbefore fully set
forth, are hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or
amendment, for and as amendments to, and as part of the
Charter of the City of Seal Beach, County of Orange.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 3
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 3—Approving            certain
  amendments to the Charter of the City of Long Beach, State
  of California, ratified by the qualified electors of said city
  at a municipal election held therein November 5, 1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 15, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, Proceedings have been had for the proposal, adop-
tion and ratification of certain amendments to the Charter of
the City of Long Beach, as set out in the certificate of the
mayor and city clerk of said city, as follows, to wit:

CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION BY THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF
  THE CITY OF LONG BEACH AT A MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD
  THEREIN NOVEMBER 5, 1968, OF CERTAIN AMENDMENTS TO
  THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF LONG BEACH, STATE OF CALI-
  FORNIA.

State of California   "]
County of Los Angeles j-ss.
City of Long Beach    J

   We, Edwin W. "Wade, Mayor of the City of Long Beach, and
Margaret L. Moore, City Clerk of the City of Long Beach, do
hereby certify as follows:
   That said City of Long Beach, in the County of Los Angeles,
State of California, is now, and was at all of the times herein
mentioned, a city containing a population of more than fifty
thousand inhabitants as ascertained by the last preceding
census taken under the authority of the Congress of the United
States; and
   That said City of Long Beach is now, and was at all of the
times herein mentioned, organized and existing under a free-
holders' charter adopted under the provisions of Section 8,
Article XI, of the Constitution of the State of California,
which charter was duly ratified by a majority of the electors
of said City at a special election held therein on the 14th day
of April, 1921, and approved by the Legislature of the State
                     1969
Bes. Ch. 3]                 REGULAR SESSION                  3427

 of California and filed with the Secretary of State of the State
 of California on the 26th day of April, 1921, (Statutes of
 1921, page 2054) ; and
   That the legislative body of said City, namely, the City
 Council thereof, did, by motions duly adopted and pursuant
to the provisions of Section 8, Article X I , of the Constitution
of the State of California, duly vote to submit to the qualified
electors of said City of Long Beach two amendments to the
 Charter of said City and ordered that said proposed amend-
ments be submitted to said qualified electors of said City at a
Special Municipal Election to be held in said City on the 5th
day of November, 1968; and
   That said two proposed amendments to be so submitted
November 5, 1968, were designated as Propositions L and M,
and were duly published the 6th day of September, 1968, in
the Long Beach Independent and in each edition thereof dur-
ing said date of publication; and
   That said Long Beach Independent was, upon the date of
said publication, and at all times since has been, and now is,
a daily newspaper of general circulation within said City of
Long Beach, and was, upon the date of the publication of said
proposed amendments, and at all times since has been and now
is, published in said City and said newspaper was, upon the
date of the publication of said proposed amendments, and at
all times since has been and now is, the official newspaper of
said City, and was the newspaper designated by said City
Council for the publication of said proposed amendments; and
   That said proposed amendments were duly and regularly
printed in convenient pamphlet form and, at and during the
time and in the manner provided by law, a notice was pub-
lished in said Long Beach Independent that such copies of
said proposed amendments could be had upon application
therefor in the office of the City Clerk of said City, and said
proposed amendments so printed in convenient pamphlet form
were duly and regularly distributed in the manner provided
by law; and
   That said City Council did, by an ordinance designated as
Ordinance No. C-4765, order the holding of said municipal
election in said City of Long Beach on November 5, 1968,
which date was not less than forty nor more than sixty days
after the completion of the publication of said proposed
amendments, as aforesaid, and that said ordinance was pub-
lished at least three times in said Long Beach Independent ten
days prior to the date of said election, to wit: October 23, 1968,
October 24, 1968, and October 25, 1968; and
   That said municipal election was held in said City of Long
Beach on November 5, 1968, which day was not less than forty
days nor more than sixty days after the completion of the
publication of said proposed amendments once in said Long
Beach Independent as aforesaid; and
3428              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Kes. Ch. 3

   That the City Council did, by resolution adopted on the 17th
day of December, 1968, duly declare the results of said munici-
pal election and did duly find, determine and declare that a
majority of the qualified voters of said City of Long Beach
voting thereon had voted in favor of and had ratified all two
of said proposed amendments; and
   That said proposed amendments to the Charter of the City
of Long Beach, so ratified by the voters of said City as afore-
said, are respectively in words and figures as follows, to wit:

                         Proposition L
   That the Charter of the City of Long Beach be amended by
amending Sections 44 (38), 221, 229d (3), 229h, 229i and
261, and by adding Sections 44 (41), 229h (1), and 260.10,
said sections to read, respectively, as hereinafter set forth, and
by repealing Section 215a (4) thereof:
   Sec. 44 (38) Whenever the City Council shall determine
that the public interest requires the construction, acquisition,
completion, remodeling or repair of any improvement or util-
ity, the cost of which, in addition to the other expenditures of
the City, will exceed the income and revenue provided for in
any one year, they may, by ordinance, submit a proposition to
incur a general obligation bonded indebtedness for such pur-
pose and proceed therein as provided in Section 18, of Article
X I of the Constitution of this state and the general law or
laws thereof; provided, that such indebtedness shall not bear
more than six percent interest per annum, and that no bond
issued therefor shall be sold for less than par nor to any other
than the highest bidder, after advertising for sealed proposals
therefor; and provided, that several propositions for the issue
of such bonds may be submitted at one special or general mu-
nicipal election.
   Sec. 221. The Board of Water Commissioners shall each
year apportion and set apart, out of the revenue fund of the
Water Department, in the City Treasury, an amount sufficient
to pay at maturity all sums coming due in said year for princi-
pal and interest upon all outstanding bonds issued for the
Water Works, and said amount shall be transferred forthwith
into a special fund in the City Treasury, to be designated by
a name indicating the nature or purpose of such special fund,
and the money in such special fund shall be subject to appor-
tionment by the Auditor as may be required to make such
payments of the principal and interest of said bonds and for
no other purpose. Any interest or increment received on the
money in any such special fund shall be paid into such special
fund and become a part thereof. The foregoing provisions of
this section shall apply to all such bonds now outstanding or
hereafter issued; provided, however, that payments out of
revenue, as provided, of the principal and interest of general
obligation bonds hereafter issued for securing water from new
sources, shall be required only to the extent determined by the
                    19S9
Ees. Ch. 3]                REGULAR SESSION                3429

 Board of Water Commissioners, approved by a majority vote
 of the Council, prior to the submission to the electors of the
 City of the proposition of authorizing such general obligation
 bonds. Such resolutions shall be subject to amendment only by
 resolution of said board, approved by majority vote of the
 Council, and assented to by a majority of the electors of the
 City, voting on the question of approving such resolution at
 a general or special election at which such question shall be
 lawfully submitted.
   Notwithstanding all or any part of this section, nothing
 herein shall be construed as a limitation upon the power of
 the City or of any department thereof to issue revenue bonds
 without an election, under state law or procedural ordinance
 and nothing in this section or elsewhere in this Charter shall
 be construed to prevent a pledge of revenues to pay, or secure
the payment of, the principal and interest of such revenue
bonds, which pledge may have priority over any allocation of
revenues to pay the principal and interest of general obliga-
tion bonds.
   Sec. 229d (3) For the payment of the principal or inter-
est, or both, of harbor improvement bonds, either general obli-
gation bonds or revenue bonds, issued for harbor improve-
ments.
   Sec. 229h. The proceeds from the sale of bonds now au-
thorized or which shall hereafter be authorized for port or
harbor purposes, shall be under the control of and expended
by the board, and shall be expended for the objects and pur-
poses for which the indebtedness was incurred. Whenever it
is desired to incur additional general obligation bonded in-
debtedness for any object or purpose consistent with its gen-
eral powers, the board shall prepare tentative plans and esti-
mates and submit its recommendation in writing to the City
Council.
   Sec. 229i. All money deposited in the City Treasury to the
credit of the Harbor Bond Redemption and Interest Fund,
which fund has been heretofore created and established and is
hereby continued, shall be used solely and exclusively to pay
the principal and interest on all general obligation bonds
issued by the City of Long Beach for harbor purposes. Said
fund shall be a continuing fund not subject to transfer at the
close of the fiscal year. When there shall have been deposited
in such fund sufficient money to pay the principal and inter-
est on any and all outstanding bonds, thereafter, and until
there may be other such bonds outstanding, no further deposits
shall be made into said fund, and all money which would
otherwise be deposited therein, including interest increments,
shall be paid into the Harbor Revenue Fund. The money de-
posited in the Harbor Bond Redemption and Interest F u n d
may be invested in accordance with the provisions of applica-
ble legislation of the State of California providing for the
investment and reinvestment of any moneys in any sinking
3430              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Ees. Ch. 3

fund, or any surplus moneys in the treasury of cities in the
State. A separate fund or funds may be established for the
purpose of paying or securing the payment of, revenue bonds
for harbor purposes, and the pledge of revenue to such funds
may have priority over any allocation of revenues to pay the
principal and interest of general obligation bonds.
   Sec. 261. The City Council shall annually provide, by a
special tax levied upon real and personal properties, a sum
sufficient to pay the principal and interest coming due upon
the general obligation indebtedness of the City during the
fiscal year.
   Sec. 44 (41). The City of Long Beach, by procedural ordi-
nance of the City Council or pursuant to state law, may issue
revenue bonds without an election for any City purpose or
purposes, and, any other provisions of this Charter notwith-
standing, may make such covenants and exercise such powers
as are deemed necessary in connection with the issuance and
sale of such revenue bonds.
   Sec. 229h (1). The board shall be authorized, with the ap-
proval of a majority of all members of the City Council, which
approval shall be by resolution, to provide for the issuance
of revenue bonds without an election secured by the revenues
of the Harbor Department, including but not limited to reve-
nues from the operation of the port and harbor facilities of
the City as the facilities now exist or may later be extended
or improved, for the purpose of acquiring, providing for, erect-
ing, constructing, reconstructing, replacing, extending, or im-
proving such improvements, utilities, structures, water craft,
appliances, facilities and services as the board may deem nec-
essary or convenient for the promotion or accommodation of
commerce, navigation or fisheries or for any use in connec-
tion therewith, or upon the lands and waters, or interest there-
in, in the possession and under the management, supervision
and control of said board, or for payment of the cost of ac-
quiring or taking such real property or any interest therein,
that the board may deem necessary or convenient for such
purpose. The procedure for issuance of revenue bonds by the
Harbor Department shall be established by procedural ordi-
nance of the City Council.
   Notwithstanding all or any part of this section, nothing
herein shall be construed as a limitation upon the power of the
City or of any department thereof to issue revenue bonds
without an election, under state law or procedural ordinance.
   Sec. 260.10. Notwithstanding any provision of this Charter
to the contrary, any revenues which are attributable to oil and
gas operations and which are subject to the jurisdiction of the
Board of Harbor Commissioners or of the City, may, with the
consent of a majority vote of all members of the City Council,
be used to pay, or may be pledged as additional security to pay,
the principal of and interest on revenue bonds of the Harbor
Department.
                    l969
Res. Ch. 3]                REGULAR SESSION                  3431

                           Proposition M
   That the Charter of the City of Long Beach be amended
by amending Section 49 to read as set forth hereinafter:
   Sec. 49. Unless expressly provided in this Charter to the
contrary, no person shall be eligible for election to any office
or appointment to any membership on any Board or Commis-
sion of the City of Long Beach unless such person shall have
been a bona fide resident of the City of Long Beach, or terri-
tory legally annexed thereto, for at least one year next preced-
ing the date of his or her election or appointment, and, on
such date, shall be a registered qualified elector of the City.
   No person shall be eligible for either election or appoint-
ment to any office or to any membership on any commission
or board of the city, or for appointment as an assistant, deputy,
clerk, attache, or other employee of any officer, commission or
board of the city, or to appointment to any position of em-
ployment whatsoever in the service of the city, who, on the
date of his or her election or appointment, shall be in litigation
against the city.
   All elective officers and all members of commissions and all
members of boards of the city, must be bona fide residents of
the city and maintain their respective places of abode within
the corporate limits of the city at all times during which they
hold such office, or are members of any such commission or
board; and the term "places of abode," as used herein, shall
mean not only the legal or technical residence or domicile, but
also actual abode in fact.
   Any elective officer, member of a commission or member
of a board of the city, upon his or her failure to comply with
and abide by the requirements as to residence and place of
abode as hereinbefore set forth, shall be thereby immediately
disqualified from holding such office or membership, and the
tenure of such officer in such office or the membership of such
member on such commission or board, as the case may be, shall
be thereby immediately terminated.

   That the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of said
proposed amendments to the Charter of the City of Long
Beach, ratified by the electors of said City, as aforesaid, on
file in the office of the City Clerk of said City of Long Beach.
   In witness whereof, Edwin W. "Wade, Mayor, as aforesaid,
and Margaret L. Moore, City Clerk, as aforesaid, have hereunto
set their hands and caused the corporate seal of the City of
Long Beach to be thereunto duly affixed on this 17th day of
December, 1968.

                    EDWIN W. WADE
   (SEAL)            Mayor of the City of Long Beach
                    MARGARET L. MOORE
                     City Clerk of the City of Long Beach
3432                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Res. Ch. 4

   WHEREAS, Said proposed amendments to the Charter of the
City of Long Beach, ratified by the electors of said city, as
aforesaid, have been, and are now, submitted to the Legis-
lature of the State of California, for approval or rejection
without power of alteration or amendment, in accordance with
Section 8, Article XI, of the Constitution of the State of Cali-
fornia ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendments to the Charter of the City of Long
Beach, as proposed to, adopted and ratified by the qualified
electors of said City of Long Beach, as hereinabove fully set
forth, be and the same are hereby approved as a whole with-
out amendment or alteration, for and as amendments to and
as parts of the Charter of the City of Long Beach.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 4
Assembly   Concurrent Resolution No. 4—Relative to Soropti-
                 mist Civic Leadership Week.
            [Filed with Secretary of State January 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Women in executive and professional positions
are achieving increased stature in the business and profes-
sional world under the free enterprise system; and
   WHEREAS, Such women may make outstanding contributions
to the cultural, civic and economic life of the community and
nation; and
   WHEREAS, There is increasing need to recognize the best
efforts of women in behalf of their families, in work with
youth, and in partnership with men; and
   WHEREAS, The Soroptimist International organization as the
largest women's classified service club, represents a highly
diversified and selective group of professional and executive
leaders dedicated to the education, progress and civic devel-
opment of all individuals, whatever their origin, race or
creed; and
  WHEREAS, All Soroptimists in the western United States, the
States of Arizona, California, Nevada, New Mexico and Texas,
are emphasizing the obligation of each citizen to reach out into
her community and give leadership solutions to state and
community problems through a specialized program called
SCOPE; and
  WHEREAS, The program SCOPE has been defined as:
  S The general education of all persons toward SELF-
       SUSTAINING employment; and the
  C    Influential, active CIVIC participation and support of an
       informed CITIZENRY in matters of law enforcement and
       problem solving at the local level; and
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 51                     REGULAR SESSION                         3433

  0    OPPORTUNITY for all women to increase their skills, re-
       gardless of age, race, or station in life; and the
   P PERSONAL COMMITMENT of individuals to give service in
      betterment of community, state, national and interna-
       tional affairs; and an
   B EDUCATIONAL opportunity emphasis for all young people,
       stressing the importance of scholastic achievement, trade
      skills, and citizenship responsibility and participation;
now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members hereby request
the Governor to proclaim the week of J a n u a r y 18-25, 1969, as
Soroptimist Civic Leadership Week in support of the world's
largest classified service organization for women, and in recog-
nition of the Soroptimist SCOPE program; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan and to
Soroptimist International.


                    RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 5
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 1—Approving        amendments
  to the Charter of the City of Santa Clara, a municipal cor-
  poration in the County of Santa Clara, State of California,
  voted for and ratified by the qualified electors of said city
  at an election held therein on the fifth day of November,
  1968.
              [Filed with Secretary of State J a n u a r y 15, 1969.]

  "WHEREAS, Proceedings have been duly and regularly taken
and had for the adoption and ratification of certain amend-
ments, hereinafter set forth, to the Charter of the City of
Santa Clara, a municipal corporation, in the County of Santa
Clara, State of California, as set out in the certificate of the
Mayor and City Clerk of said City, as follows:

State of California   "I
County of Santa Clara \ ss
City of Santa Clara    J

      CERTIFICATE OP RATIFICATION OF CHARTER AMENDMENTS
           B Y ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF SANTA CLARA

  We, the undersigned, Gary G. Gillmor, Mayor of the City
of Santa Clara, and A. S. Belick, City Clerk of said City, do
hereby certify and declare as follows:
  That the City of Santa Clara, a municipal corporation, in
the County of Santa Clara, State of California, is now and
at all times herein mentioned was a City duly organized,
3434              STATUTES OF CALIPORNIA            [Ees. Ch. 5

existing and acting under a freeholders charter adopted under
and pursuant to Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution
of the State of California, with a population of more than
50,000 inhabitants;
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Ar-
ticle X I of the Constitution of the State of California the
City Council of said City, being the legislative body thereof,
on its own motion, submitted to the qualified electors of said
City at a special election consolidated with the general state-
wide election called and held in the County of Santa Clara,
a certain proposal for the amendment of the Charter of said
City at said special election duly and regularly called and
held for that purpose in said City on the fifth day of No-
vember, 1968, said Charter Amendments being designated as
Proposition D and herein designated as Santa Clara Charter
Amendments;
   That said Santa Clara Charter Amendments were published
in the Santa Clara Journal, a newspaper of general circula-
tion printed and published in said City and having a general
circulation therein; said newspaper being the official news-
paper of said City, Proposition D was published September
11, 1968 and September 18, 1968, in each edition thereof on
said days, and said publication was made at the times and
in the manner prescribed in Section 8, Article X I of the
 Constitution of the State of California;
   That said City Council caused copies of said Santa Clara
Charter Amendments to be printed in convenient pamphlet
form and in type of not less than 10-point, and caused copies
thereof to be mailed to each of the qualified electors of said
City, and, until the day fixed for said election, advertised in
said Santa Clara Journal, a newspaper having a general circu-
lation in said City, a notice that copies thereof could be had
upon application therefor, and in accordance with said notice
copies thereof could be had upon application therefor;
   That said election was duly and regularly held on the fifth
day of November, 1968, which said date of said election was
not less than 40 nor more than 60 days after the completion of
the advertising in said official newspaper of said proposed
 Charter Amendments, and the returns of said election were
duly and regularly canvassed and the results declared and
entered, namely, that at said election a majority of the quali-
fied voters voting thereon voted in favor of and did ratify each
of said Santa Clara Charter Amendments, hereinafter spe-
cifically set forth;
   That said Amendments to the Charter of said City so rati-
fied by the voters of said City are as follows, to wit:

  " P E O P O S I T I O N D : A proposition on the motion of the
City Council of said City to Amend Article YI and Article
VII of the Charter of said City as follows:
  1. Amend Article VI to read as follows;
                     1969
Res. Ch. 51                 REGULAR SESSION                   3435

               Article VI.     The Elective Officers
   Section 600. Enumeration. The elective officers of the
City shall consist of a City Council composed of seven mem-
bers.
   The chief of the police department and the city clerk shall
be elected from the city at large, at the time and in the man-
ner in this charter provided for election of the members of
the city council, and shall serve for a term of four years,
all as provided in Charter Amendment (1953 Statutes 3929).
   At the general municipal election to be held in the City
on the first Tuesday in April, 1969, and each fourth year
thereafter, the Mayor of the City shall be elected from the
City at large for a term to commence on the first Monday
in May following such election and shall serve until his suc-
cessor is elected and qualified. A person elected at any elec-
tion to the office designated " M a y o r " shall be deemed elected,
both as a Mayor and as a member of the Council. Although
the Mayor is a Council member and his election does not
change the number of Councilmen from seven, the office of
Mayor shall be separately voted upon and is a separate office.
Except as to the municipal election to be held in the City
on the first Tuesday in April, 1969, no person shall be a can-
didate for Mayor and City Council at the same election. Any
person having a plurality of all votes cast from the City at
large for Mayor shall be declared duly elected Mayor, and
he shall not be elected at the same election he is so elected
Mayor to any other Council office, although any person at
said 1969 election can be a candidate for such offices at the
same election. Votes cast for him at such election for any
Council office other than Mayor shall not be counted in de-
termining whether plurality of votes were cast in such elec-
tion for such officer for Council, or have any other signifi-
cance.
   Any incumbent member of the City Council may run for
such elective office of Mayor, and the Mayor may run for
the separate offices of Mayor or other City Council office;
however, no member of the Council, including the Mayor,
shall hold more than one City elective office.
   2. Amend Article V I I by amending Sections 701, 702, 703,
704 and 705 thereof and adding new Sections 704.1, 704.2,
704.3 and 704.4 thereto, each of which sections shall read
as follows:
   Section 701. Qualifications. No person shall be eligible to
hold any elective office in the City, including Mayor, City
Council, Chief of Police Department, and City Clerk, unless
he shall be a qualified elector, and shall have been a resident
of the City for at least three (3) years next preceding the
date of his election or appointment to such office.
   A member of the Council shall not serve more than two
consecutive elective terms as such, and shall be ineligible for
3436               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Res. Ch. 5

re-election or appointment to fill a vacancy in the Council
until two years after such service. The office of elected Mayor,
to be filled from the City at large, is a separate office from
the Council and for the purpose of this qualification for office,
is neither a Council office nor the Council. For such purpose,
time served in such office of elected Mayor is not time served
on the Council and time served on the Council is not time
served in such office of elected Mayor.
    Section 702. Compensation. Each member of the City
Council shall receive as compensation the sum of Two Hundred
Dollars ($200) per month, and the Mayor shall receive an ad-
ditional One Hundred Dollars ($100) per month. As of the first
Monday in May, 1969, the Mayor shall receive an additional
Seven Hundred Dollars ($700) per month for a total of One
Thousand Dollars ($1,000) per month. If a member of the
City Council, including the Mayor, does not attend all meetings
of the City Council or study sessions called on order of the
City Council and held during the month, the compensation
to him for such month shall be reduced by the sum of Twenty
Five Dollars ($25) for each meeting or study session not at-
tended unless he is absent with the consent of or on order of
the City Council.
    Absence from five consecutive regular meetings, unless ex-
cused by resolution of the City Council, shall operate to vacate
the seat of any member of the City Council so absent.
    Section 703. Vacancies. A vacancy in any elective office
of the City, including Mayor, City Council, Chief of Police
Department, and City Clerk, from whatever cause arising,
shall be filled by appointment by the City Council by a major-
ity vote of the remaining members.
    In the event the City Council shall fail to fill a vacancy by
appointment within thirty days after such office shall have
been declared vacant, it shall forthwith cause an election to
be held to fill such vacancy. A person appointed or elected to
fill a vacancy holds office for the unexpired term of the former
incumbent.
    Section 704. Presiding Officer. Mayor. At the first regu-
lar meeting in May following any municipal election at which
councilmen are elected, the council shall elect one of its mem-
bers as presiding officer, who shall have the title of Mayor.
The Mayor shall have a voice and vote in all its proceedings.
He shall be the official head of the City for all ceremonial
purposes. He shall perform such other duties as may be pre-
scribed by this Charter or as may be imposed by the City
Council consistent with his office. The Mayor shall serve in
such capacity at the pleasure of the City Council.
   As of the first Monday in May, 1969, the Mayor shall be
elected from the City at large and upon assuming such
elective office, he shall not serve in such capacity at the pleas-
ure of the City Council.
   Section 704.1. Same—Limitation of terms. No person who
has been elected to the office of Mayor for two (2) successive
                    1969
Res. Ch. 51                RBGULAK SESSION                 3437

 four-year terms shall be eligible to run for election to the
 office of Mayor, nor to serve as such, for any additional suc-
 cessive term; but the above shall not disqualify any person
 from running for election to the office of Mayor, nor from
 further service as Mayor, for any term or terms which are not
 successive, nor for any parts of terms which are not succes-
 sive.
    Section 704.2. Same—Political position. It is the intent of
 this article that as of the first Monday of May, 1969, the
Mayor shall be the political leader within the community by
providing guidance and leadership to the City Council, by
expressing and explaining to the community the City's policies
 and programs and by assisting the City Council in the in-
formed, vigorous and effective exercise of its powers. Political
leadership shall be concerned with the general development of
the community and the general level of City services and
activity programs.
    Section 704.3. Same—Powers and duties. The Mayor shall
as of the first Monday of May, 1969, have the following powers
and duties:
    (a) The Mayor shall have the power to make recommenda-
tions to the City Council on matters of policy and programs
which require City Council decision; provided, that if he rec-
ommends any increases in the City budget, he shall recommend
the method of financing such expenditure; and provided, fur-
ther, that if he proposes curtailment of service, such recom-
mendations and his reason therefor shall be specific. He may
also, on his own account, inform the community on matters
of policy or program which he believes the welfare of the
community makes necessary;
    (b) The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Coun-
cil and shall have the vote as a member of the City Council.
He shall have no veto power;
    (c) The Mayor shall have authority to preserve order at
all City Council meetings, to remove or cause the removal of
any person from any meeting of the City Council for disor-
derly conduct, tO' enforce the rules of the City Council and
to determine the order of business under the rules of the
City Council.
    (d) The Mayor shall exercise such other powers and per-
form such other duties as may be prescribed by the City
Council, provided that the same are not inconsistent with
this Charter.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed in any way as an
infringement or limitation on the powers and duties of the
City Manager as Chief Administrative Officer and head of the
administrative branch of the City government as prescribed
in other sections of this Charter. Except as otherwise herein
provided, the Mayor shall possess only such authority over
the City Manager and the administrative branch as he pos-
sesses as one member of the City Council.
3438               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TOgg   QJj g

   Section 704.4. Same—Vacancy. The office of Mayor shall
become and be deemed vacant immediately upon the incum-
bent ceasing to be a member of the City Council.
   Section 705. Mayor Pro Tempore. The City Council shall
also designate one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore. The
Mayor Pro Tempore shall perform the duties of the Mayor
during his absence or disability. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall
serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the City Council."
   That we have compared the foregoing amendments as stated
herein with the original proposals submitted to the electors
of said City, and find and certify that each of the foregoing
is a full, true and correct copy thereof.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of said City of Santa Clara to be affixed
hereto this 11th day of December, 1968.

                  GARY G. GILLMOR,
  (SEAL)          Mayor, City of Santa Clara, California
                  A. S. BELICK,
                  City Clerk, City of Santa Clara, California
and
   WHEREAS, Said proposed charter amendments as ratified as
hereinabove set forth have been and are now duly presented
and submitted to the Legislature of the State of California
for approval or rejection as a whole, without power of altera-
tion and in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected, to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the aforementioned amendments to the Charter of the
City of Santa Clara as proposed to, and adopted and rati-
fied by, the qualified electors of said City of Santa Clara be
and the same hereby are approved as a whole, without amend-
ment or alteration, for and as amendments to and as part
of the Charter of the City of Santa Clara.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 6
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 8—Approving a new
  Charter of the City of Arcadia, a municipal corporation, in
  the County of Los Angeles, State of California, ratified by
  the voters of said city at a special municipal election consoli-
  dated with the statewide general election held on November
  5,1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 16, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption and ratification of a new Charter of the City
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                 3439

of Arcadia, a municipal corporation in the County of Los
Angeles, State of California, as set out in the certificate of
the mayor and the city clerk of said city, as follows:

        CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION BY VOTERS OF THE
             CITY OF ARCADIA OF A N E W CHARTER

State of California          "I
County of Los Angeles          > ss.
City of Arcadia               J
   We, Don W. Hage, Mayor of the City of Arcadia, and
Christine Van Maanen, City Clerk of said city, do hereby
certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Arcadia, in the County of Los Angeles,
State of California, is now, and was at all times herein men-
tioned, a city containing a population of less than 50,000 in-
habitants and more than 3,500 inhabitants as ascertained by
the last preceding census taken tinder authority of the Congress
of the United States and a city organized and existing under
a charter, adopted pursuant to the provisions of Article X I ,
Section 8, of the Constitution of the State of California, which
charter was approved by The Legislature of the State of
California by concurrent resolution filed with the Secretary
of State on May 14, 1951 (Assembly Concurrent Resolution
No. 58, Chapter 117, Statutes 1951, p. 4514), and amendments
thereto duly ratified and approved by said legislature.
   That pursuant to said provisions of said constitution, the
City Council of the City of Arcadia, being the legislative
body of said city, on its own motion by ordinance No. 1392
duly submitted to the qualified voters of said city a proposal
for a new charter; that said proposal, designated as proposi-
tion " 6 " on the ballot, was voted upon by said voters at a
special municipal election, consolidated with the state-wide gen-
eral election, called and held in said city on November 5, 1968;
that said proposed new charter was published not less than
forty nor more than sixty days before said election in the
official newspaper of said city, the Arcadia Tribune, a news-
paper of general circulation published in said city.
   That the Registrar of Voters of the County of Los Angeles
duly canvassed the returns of said election and certified to
the City Council of the City of Arcadia the results of said
canvass; that as determined from said canvass, said city council
did find and declare that a majority of said voters had voted
in favor of adoption of said proposed new charter which reads
as follows:
                              CHARTER
                           CITY OF ARCADIA

  We, the People of the City of Arcadia, State of California,
do ordain and establish this Charter as the organic law of the
City under the Constitution of the State.
3440                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Res. Ch 6

                            Article I
                  Incorporation and Succession
   Section 100. Name and Boundaries. The City of Arcadia,
hereinafter termed the City, shall continue to be a municipal
corporation under its present name, "City of Arcadia." The
boundaries of the City shall be as established at the time this
Charter takes effect, or as they may be changed thereafter
in the manner authorized by law.
   Section 101. Rights and Liabilities of the City. The City
shall continue to own, possess, and control all rights and prop-
erty of every kind and nature owned, possessed, or controlled
by it at the time this Charter takes effect and shall be subject
to all its debts, obligations, liabilities, and contracts.
   Section 102. Ordinances, Codes and Other Regulations.
All ordinances, codes, resolutions, regulations, or portions
thereof, in force at the time this Charter takes effect, and not
in conflict or inconsistent herewith, shall continue in force
until they shall have been duly repealed, amended, changed,
or superseded by proper authority.
   Section 103. Officers and Employees. Subject to the pro-
visions of this Charter, the present officers and employees
shall continue to perform the duties of their respective offices
and employments without interruption and for the same com-
pensations and under the same conditions until the election
or appointment and qualification of their successors and sub-
ject to such removal and control as herein provided.
   Section 104. Effective Date of Charter. This Charter
shall take effect upon its approval by the Legislature of the
State of California.
                              Article I I
                           Powers of City
   Section 200. Powers. The City shall have the power to
make and enforce all laws and regulations in respect to munic-
ipal affairs, subject only to such restrictions and limitations
as may be provided in this Charter and in the Constitution of
the State of California. It shall also have the power to exer-
cise any and all rights, powers, and privileges heretofore or
hereafter established, granted, or prescribed by any law of the
State, by this Charter, or by other lawful authority, or which
a municipal corporation might or could exercise under the
Constitution of the State of California. The enumeration in
this Charter of any particular power, duty, or procedure shall
not be held to be exclusive of, or any limitation or restriction
upon, this general grant of power. The City shall have the
power and may act pursuant to procedure established by ordi-
nance or any law of the State.
   Section 201. Intergovernmental Relations. The City may
exercise any of its powers or perform any of its functions
jointly, or in cooperation, by contract or otherwise, with any
one or more cities, counties, states, or civil divisions or agencies
thereof, or the United States or any agency thereof.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                   3441

                         Article I I I
                     Form of Government
    Section 300. Form of Government. The municipal gov-
ernment established by this Charter shall be known as the
' ' Council-Manager'' form of government.

                         Article I V
                       The City Council
   Section 400. City Council. The City Council, hereinafter
termed "Council," shall consist of five Councilmen elected to
office from the City at large in the manner provided in this
Charter. The term of office shall be four years. Alternately,
and successively, three four-year terms shall be filled at one
general municipal election and two four-year terms at the next
such election, consistent with the sequence of terms of Coun-
cilmen existing on the effective date hereof. The term of a
Councilman shall commence on the first Tuesday following his
election and he shall serve until his successor qualifies. Any
ties in -voting shall be settled by the casting of lots.
   Each Councilman in office at the time this Charter takes
effect shall continue in office until the end of the term for
which he was elected under the previous charter; an ap-
pointed Councilman shall continue in office during such time
as hereinafter provided.
   Section 401. Eligibility. No person shall be eligible to
hold the office of Councilman unless he is, and shall have been
for at least two years immediately preceding his election or
appointment, a legally registered voter and resident of the
City. A Councilman who has been elected for two consecutive
four-year terms, excluding part or all of any unexpired term,
shall not be eligible to hold the office of Councilman again un-
til two years after expiration of the second consecutive term.
This section shall apply to Councilmen holding office on the
effective date of this Charter.
   Section 402. Compensation. Compensation for Council-
men is hereby set, and from time to time shall be changed, in
accordance with the schedule applicable to the City of Arcadia
set forth in the provisions of the Government Code relating to
salaries of councilmen in general law cities. Such compensa-
tion may be increased or decreased by an affirmative vote of
a majority of the voters voting on the proposition at any elec-
tion.
   Section 403. Vacancies. Forfeiture of Office. Filling of
Vacancies.
   (a) A vacancy shall exist on the Council, and shall be de-
clared by the Council, if a Councilman resigns, is legally re-
moved other than by recall, dies, or forfeits his office.
   (b) A Councilman shall forfeit his office if he (1) lacks a t
any time while holding office any qualification for election pre-
scribed by this Charter or by law, (2) violates any provision
3442               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             m e g Qfa g

 of this Charter, (3) is convicted of a crime involving moral
 turpitude, (4) without consent of the Council is absent from
 all regular Council meetings for a period of sixty consecutive
 days and the first regular meeting thereafter, said period to be
 computed from the last regular Council meeting he attends,
 (5) or accepts or retains any other elective public office. A
 declaration by the Council of a vacancy resulting from for-
feiture of office shall be subject to judicial review, provided
that within two weeks after such declaration an appropriate
 action, or proceeding, for review is filed in a court having
jurisdiction of the action or proceeding. During the pendency
 of any such action or proceeding, anyone appointed by the
 Council to fill such vacancy shall have all the rights, duties,
 and powers of a Councilman, and continue in such office as
provided herein unless and until said court rules the declara-
 tion of the Council invalid and such ruling has become final.
    (e) Any vacancy on the Council shall be filled by a majority
vote of the remaining Councilmen within thirty days after
the vacancy occurs. If more than one vacancy exists, successive
 appointments shall be made, and each appointee shall partici-
pate in any succeeding appointment. If the Council fails, for
 any reason, to fill such vacancy within said thirty-day period,
it shall forthwith call an election for the earliest possible date
to fill such vacancy. A person appointed by the Council to
fill a vacancy shall hold office until the next general municipal
election and until his successor qualifies; provided upon the
occurrence of a second vacancy more than one year prior to
the next general municipal election at a time an appointee is
holding office, a special election shall be held forthwith to
fill any vacancy and any office held by an appointee. At said
election, Councilmen shall be elected to serve for the remainder
of the unexpired terms. A Councilman elected to fill a vacancy
shall hold office for the remainder of the unexpired term.
    (d) The Council shall provide by ordinance or resolution
for the continuity of the Council in the event that five va-
cancies simultaneously exist on the Council.
   Section 404. Mayor—Mayor Pro Tempore. By the affirm-
ative votes of not less than three Councilmen, the Council
shall elect one of its members as Mayor, and one of its members
as Mayor Pro Tempore, upon the following occasions:
    (a) In even numbered years, at the regular Council meet-
ing held for the purpose of canvassing the results of the gen-
eral municipal election; and
    (b) In odd numbered years, at the second regular Council
meeting held during the month of April; or
    (c) At such other times as a majority of the Council shall
so order.
   The Mayor shall preside at Council meetings. He shall be
the chief official of the City for all ceremonial purposes. He
shall perform such other duties consistent with his office as
may be prescribed by the Council. The Mayor Pro Tempore
                    1969
Res. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                3443

shall perform the duties of the Mayor during his absence
or disability.
   Both the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore shall have a voice
and a vote in all proceedings of the Council.
   Section 405. Powers Vested in the Council. All powers of
the City shall be vested in the Council except as otherwise
provided in this Charter.
   Section 406. Prohibitions.
   (a) Holding Other Offices. No Councilman shall hold any
other City office or City employment, and no former Council-
man shall hold any compensated City office or City employ-
ment until two years after leaving the office of Councilman.
   (b) Interference in Administrative Service. Neither the
Council nor any of its members shall interfere with the exe-
cution by the City Manager of his powers and duties, or order,
directly or indirectly, the appointment by the City Manager
or by any of the departmental officers in the administrative
service of the City, of any person to an office or employment or
his removal therefrom. Except for the purpose of inquiry,
the Council and its members shall deal with the administra-
tive service under the City Manager solely through the City
Manager and neither the Council nor any member thereof
shall give orders to any subordinates of the City Manager,
either publicly or privately.
   Section 407. Regular Meetings of the Council. The Coun-
cil shall hold regular meetings at least twice each month at
such times as it shall fix by ordinance or resolution. At any
time a regular meeting falls on a holiday, such meeting shall
be held on the next business day.
   Section 408. Special Meetings. Special meetings may be
called at any time by the Mayor or by three members of the
Council by delivering personally or by mail written notice to
each Councilman and to each local newspaper of general cir-
culation, radio, and television station requesting notice in
writing. Such notice must be delivered personally or by mail
at least twenty-four hours before the time of such meeting as
specified in the notice. The call and notice shall specify the
time and place of the special meeting and the business to be
transacted. No other business shall be considered at such
meeting. Such written notice may be dispensed with as to any
Councilman who at or prior to the time the meeting convenes
files with the Clerk a written waiver of notice. Such waiver
may be given by telegram. Such written notice may also be
dispensed with as to any Councilman who is actually present
at the meeting at the time it convenes.
    Section 409. Adjourned Meetings. Any regular, adjourned
regular, special, or adjourned special meeting may be ad-
journed to a time and place specified in the order of ad-
journment. Any adjourned regular meeting is a regular meet-
ing for all purposes.
    Section 410. Quorum. Subject to other provisions of this
 Charter, three Councilmen shall constitute a quorum to do
3444               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Ees. Ch. 6

 business, but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time
 or compel the attendance of other Couneilmen in such a man-
 ner and under such penalties as the Council may have pro-
 vided.
    Section 411. Open Meetings. Ralph M. Brown Act. All
 meetings of the Council shall be open to the public, provided
 the Council may adjourn to an executive session as provided
 by law. The provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act, commenc-
 ing with Section 54950 of the Government Code, shall apply
 to all meetings of the Council.
    Section 412. Place of Meetings. All Council meetings
 shall be held in the Council Chamber of the City Hall, or in
 a place to which any meeting may be adjourned. If, by reason
 of fire, flood, or other emergency, it shall be unsafe to meet in
 the Council Chamber, the meetings may be held for the
 duration of the emergency at a place designated by the Mayor,
 or if he should fail to act, by three members of the Council.
    Section 413. Proceedings. The Council shall cause the
 City Clerk to keep a correct record of all its proceedings.
 The Council may establish rules for the conduct of its proceed-
 ings. I t may evict any member or other person for disorderly
 conduct at any of its meetings. Each member of the Council
 shall have the power to administer oaths and affirmations in
 any proceeding pending before the Council. The Council shall
 have the power to compel the attendance of witnesses, to
 examine them under oath, and to compel the production of
 evidence before it. Subpoenas shall be issued in the name of
 the City, signed by the Mayor, and be attested by the City
 Clerk. Disobedience of such subpoenas, or the refusal to
testify, shall constitute a misdemeanor; the Mayor shall re-
 port such disobedience to a judge of the Superior Court for
further proceedings under the provisions of the Government
Code.
   Upon adoption of any ordinance, resolution, or order for
payment of money, or upon the demand of any member, the
City Clerk shall call the roll and shall cause the ayes and
noes taken on the question to be entered in the minutes of
the meeting.
   Section 414. Citizen Participation. Any citizen, person-
ally or through counsel, shall have the right to present
grievances at any regular meeting of the Council, or offer
suggestions for the betterment of municipal affairs.
   Section 415. Adoption of Ordinances and Resolutions.
"With the exception of ordinances which take effect upon adop-
tion, referrred to in this Article, no ordinance shall be adopted
by the Council on the day of its introduction, nor within five
days thereafter, nor at any time other than at a regular
or adjourned regular meeting. At the time of its introduction
an ordinance shall become a p a r t of the proceedings of such
meeting in the custody of the City Clerk. At the time of
adoption of an ordinance or resolution it shall be read in
                    1969
Res. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                3445

full, unless after the reading of the title thereof, the further
reading thereof is waived by unanimous consent of the
Councilmen present. In the event that any ordinance is al-
tered after its introduction, it shall not be finally adopted
except at a meeting held not less than five days after the
date upon which such ordinance was altered. Correction of a
typographical or clerical error shall not constitute an altera-
tion within the meaning of the foregoing sentence.
   Unless otherwise required by this Charter, the affirmative
votes of at least three Councilmen shall be required for the
enactment of any ordinance or resolution, or for the making
or approving of any order for the payment of money.
   All ordinances and resolutions shall be signed by the
Mayor and attested by the City Clerk.
   Emergency Ordinances. Any ordinance declared by the
Council to be necessary as an emergency measure for pre-
serving the public peace, health, or safety and containing a
statement of the reasons for its urgency, may be introduced
and adopted at one and the same meeting if it is read in full
and passed by at least four affirmative votes.
   Section 416. Ordinances. Publication. The City Clerk
shall cause each ordinance to be published at least once in the
official newspaper within fifteen days after its adoption.
   Section 417. Adoption of Codes by Reference. Detailed
regulations, pertaining to any subject, when arranged as a
comprehensive code may be adopted by reference by the pas-
sage of an ordinance for such purpose. Such code need not be
published in the manner required for other ordinances, but
not less than three copies thereof shall be filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the City Clerk, prior
to the adoption thereof. Subsequent amendments to sections
of such code shall be enacted in the same manner as herein
required for the enactment of ordinances. Copies of any
adopted code of regulations shall be made available for pur-
 chase at a reasonable price.
    Section 418. The Arcadia Municipal Code. The Arcadia
 Municipal Code may be amended, repealed, or added to in
 whole or in part by ordinance. Said Code may be rearranged
 and renumbered and thereupon adopted by reference in the
 same manner as set forth in Section 417, above.
    Section 419. Ordinance. When Effective. An ordinance
 shall become effective on the thirty-first day after its adop-
 tion, or at any later date specified therein, except the fol-
 lowing, which shall take effect upon adoption:
    (a) An ordinance calling or otherwise relating to an elec-
 tion.
    (b) An improvement proceeding ordinance adopted under
 some law or procedural ordinance.
    (c) An ordinance declaring the amount of money necessary
 to be raised by taxation, fixing the rate of taxation, levying
 the annual tax upon property, or levying any other tax.
3446              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [lies. Ch. 6

   (d) An emergency ordinance adopted in the manner pro-
vided for in this Charter.
   Section 420. Publishing of Legal Notices. In the event
that there is more than one newspaper of general circulation
in the City, the Council, annually, prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year, shall solicit bids and contract for the publi-
cation of all legal notices or other matter required to be pub-
lished in a newspaper of general circulation, during the en-
suing fiscal year. If there is only one newspaper of general
circulation in the City, then the Council shall have the power
to contract with such newspaper for the publishing of such
legal notices and other matter without soliciting bids therefor.
If the City has a contract with a newspaper of general cir-
culation in the City, it shall be deemed to be the official news-
paper.
   If there is no newspaper of general circulation in the City,
or, if such a newspaper will not contract with the City at
rates which do not exceed those charged private persons, and
the Council has not designated an official newspaper, then such
notices and other matter, and notices required to be published
in the official newspaper, shall be published by posting copies
thereof at three or more public places in the City as designated
by the Council.
   No defect or irregularity in proceedings taken under this
section, or failure to designate an official newspaper, shall in-
validate any publication where the same is otherwise in con-
formity with this Charter or law.

                           Article V
                           City Clerk
   Section 500. City Clerk. There shall be a City Clerk who
shall be elected for a term of four years, commencing on the
first Tuesday following his election, and who shall serve until
his successor qualifies.
   Section 501. Continuation of Present City Clerk. The
City Clerk in office at the time this Charter takes effect, or
his successor, shall continue in office during the term which
commenced April 16, 1968, and shall serve until his successor
qualifies.
   Section 502. Eligibility. No person shall be eligible to hold
the office of City Clerk unless he is a legally registered voter
and resident of the City. The City Clerk shall engage in no
other business or occupation except as may be permitted by
the affirmative vote of four members of the Council.
   Section 503. Vacancies. Forfeiture of Office. Filling of
Vacancies. The provisions of Section 403, subdivisions (a)
and (b) hereof, relating to vacancies on the Council, shall
apply to the office of City Clerk in the same manner as they
apply to the office of Councilman. After declaring a vacancy,
the Council by a majority vote of its members shall fill such
                    1969
Res. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                 3447

vacancy by appointment. Said appointee shall serve until the
expiration of the unexpired term or until the next municipal
election, whichever shall first occur. At said election a Clerk
shall be elected to serve for the remainder of any unexpired
term.
   Section 504. Compensation. Compensation for the City
Clerk shall be set by the Council and shall not be increased
or decreased after his election or during his term of office.
   Section 505. Powers and Duties. The City Clerk shall:
   (a) Attend all meetings of the Council and be responsible
for the recording and maintaining of a full and true record
of all of the proceedings of the Council in books that shall
bear appropriate titles and be devoted to such purpose.
   (b) Maintain separate books, in which shall be recorded re-
spectively all ordinances and resolutions, with the certificate
of the Clerk annexed to each document stating that said docu-
ment is the original or a correct copy, and with respect to
an ordinance, stating that said ordinance has been published
or posted in accordance with this Charter; all of said books
shall be properly indexed and open to public inspection when
not in actual use.
   (c) Maintain separate books, in which a record shall be
made of all written contracts and official bonds.
   (d) Be the custodian of the seal of the City.
   (e) Administer oaths or affirmations, take affidavits and
depositions pertaining to the affairs and business of the City
and certify copies of official records.
   (f) Be the City Assessor, if the Council so requires.
   (g) Sign all checks, except payroll checks.
   (h) Conduct all City elections.
   (i) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
Council.
                             Article V I
                           City Manager
   Section 600. City Manager. Selection and Qualifications.
There shall be a City Manager who shall be the chief admin-
istrative officer of the City. The Council shall appoint, by not
less than four votes, the person who it believes to be best
qualified on the basis of his executive and administrative
qualifications, with special reference to his experience in, and
his knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of
the office as set forth in this Charter.
   The City Manager shall engage in no other business or oc-
cupation except as may be permitted by the affirmative vote
of four members of the Council. He shall establish his resi-
dence within the City within ninety days after his appoint-
ment, unless such period is extended by the Council, and
thereafter maintain his residence within the City during his
tenure of office.
3448               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Res. Ch. 6

     Removal of City Manager. The affirmative vote of a major-
  ity of the members of the Council shall be required to remove
  the City Manager from office, provided the City Manager shall
  not be removed by the Council within 135 days after a council-
  manic election, except by the unanimous vote of the entire
  Council.
     Section 601. City Manager. Powers and Duties. The
  City Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the
  proper administration of all affairs of the City. Without limit-
  ing the foregoing general grant of powers, responsibilities and
  duties, the City Manager, subject to the provisions of this
  Charter and any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, shall:
     (a) Appoint and remove administrative officers, except those
  appointed by the Council, and when he deems it necessary for
 the good of the service suspend or remove any employee.
     (b) Direct and supervise the administration of all depart-
  ments, offices and agencies of the City.
     (c) Prepare and submit the annual budget and capital
 program to the Council, and be responsible for administra-
 tion of the annual budget and capital program after its adop-
 tion.
     (d) Prepare and submit to the Council as of the end of the
 fiscal year a comprehensive report on the finances and ad-
 ministrative activities of the City for the preceding year.
     (e) Make such other reports as the Council may require
 concerning the operations of City departments, offices and
 agencies subject to his direction and supervision.
     (f) Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and
 future needs of the City and make such recommendations as
 may seem to him desirable.
     (g) Prepare rules and regulations governing the contract-
 ing for, purchasing, storing, distribution, and disposal of, all
 supplies, materials and equipment required by any office, de-
 partment, or agency of the City government and recom-
mend them to the Council for adoption.
    (h) See that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts
of the Council, subject to enforcement by him or by officers
subject to his direction and supervision, are faithfully exe-
cuted.
    (i) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
Council.
    Section 602. City Manager. Meetings. The City Man-
ager shall be accorded a seat at the Council table and at all
meetings of boards and commissions and shall be entitled to
participate in their deliberations, but shall not have a vote.
    Section 603. Manager Pro Tempore. The City Manager
shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Council, one of
the other officers of the City to serve as Manager Pro Tempore
during any temporary absence or disability of the City Man-
ager. During such absence or disability, the Council may
revoke such designation at any time and appoint another
                    1969
Res. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                 3449

officer of the City to serve until the Manager shall return or
his disability shall cease.

                          Article V I I
                    Officers and Employees
   Section 700. Administrative Departments.
   (a) Creation of Departments. The Council may establish
City departments, offices, or agencies in addition to those
created by this Charter and may prescribe the functions of all
departments, offices, and agencies, except that no function
assigned by this Charter to a particular department, office, or
agency may be discontinued or, unless this Charter specifi-
cally so provides, assigned to any other.
   (b) Direction by City Manager. Except as otherwise pro-
vided by this Charter, all departments, offices, and agencies
under the direction and supervision of the City Manager
shall be administered by an officer appointed by and subject
to the direction and supervision of the Manager. With the con-
sent of the Council, the Manager may serve as the depart-
mental administrator of one or more such departments, offices,
or agencies or may appoint one person as the departmental
administrator of two or more of them.
   (c) Not inconsistent with this Charter, the Council may
provide for the number, titles, qualifications, powers, duties,
and compensation of all officers and employees.
   (d) Merit Principle. All appointments and promotions of
City officers and employees shall be made solely on the basis
of merit and fitness demonstrated by examination or other
evidence of competence.
   Section 701. City Attorney. Powers and Duties. There
shall be a City Attorney who shall be appointed and subject
to removal by a majority vote of the entire Council. Under
the administrative direction of the City Manager, he shall
serve as chief legal adviser to the Council, the City Manager,
and all City departments, offices, and agencies; he shall repre-
sent the City in all legal proceedings and shall perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by the Council.
   To become eligible for City Attorney, the person appointed
shall be an attorney-at-law duly licensed as such under the
laws of the State of California, and shall have been engaged
in the practice of law for at least two years prior to his ap-
pointment.
   Section 702. Director of Finance. There shall be a Direc-
tor of Finance who shall:
   (a) Have charge of the administration of the financial
affairs of the City under the direction of the City Manager.
   (b) Compile the budget expense and income estimates and
supply data for the Capital Program as requested by the City
Manager.
   (c) Maintain a general accounting system for the City gov-
ernment and each of its offices, departments, and agencies.
3450              STATUTES OF CALIPORNIA            [Res. Ch. 6

   (d) Supervise and be responsible for the disbursement of
all moneys and have control of all expenditures to insure that
budget appropriations are not exceeded; audit all purchase
orders before issuance; audit and approve before payment,
all bills, invoices, payrolls, demands or charges against the
City government and, with the advice of the City Attorney,
when necessary, determine the regularity, legality, and cor-
rectness of such claims, demands, or charges.
   (e) Supervise the collection, receipt, and the deposit of all
moneys payable to the City in a depository designated by the
Council or by the City Manager, if the Council has not acted,
and in compliance with all applicable laws.
   (f) Submit to the Council through the City Manager a
monthly statement of all receipts and disbursements in suffi-
cient detail to show the exact financial condition of the City;
and, as of the end of each fiscal year, submit a complete fi-
nancial statement and report.
   (g) Supervise the keeping of current inventories of all
property of the City by all City departments, offices, and
agencies.
   (h) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
Council.
   Treasurer. There shall be a Treasurer in the Department
of Finance who shall be appointed and may be removed by the
Director of Finance subject to the approval of the City Man-
ager. The Treasurer shall perform those duties required by
law, assigned by the Director of Finance, and those provided
by ordinance or resolution.
   Section 703. Planning Director. There shall be a Direc-
tor of Planning who shall:
   (a) Advise the City Manager on any matter affecting the
physical development of the City.
   (b) Formulate and recommend to the City Manager a gen-
eral plan and modifications thereof.
   (c) Eeview and make recommendations regarding proposed
Council action implementing the general plan.
   (d) Participate in the preparation and revision of the Capi-
tal Program.
   (e) Advise the City Planning Commission in the exercise
of its responsibilities and in connection therewith provide nec-
essary staff assistance.
   (f) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
Council.
   Section 704. Departmental       Administrators. Appointive
Powers. Each departmental administrator shall have the
power to appoint, supervise, suspend, or remove such assist-
ants, deputies, subordinates, and employees as are provided
for by the Council for his department, subject to approval of
the City Manager and subject to the civil service provisions
of this Charter and the rules and regulations promulgated
hereunder.
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                  34.5^

   Section 705. Personal Financial Interest. Except as per-
mitted by the Government Code, any City officer or employee
who has a financial interest in any contract with the City or
in the sale of any land, materials, supplies, or services to the
City or to a contractor supplying the City shall make known
that interest and shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise
participating in his capacity as a City officer or employee in
the making of such sale or in the making or performance of
such contract. Any City officer or employee who willfully con-
ceals such a financial interest or willfully violates the require-
ments of this section shall be guilty of malfeasance in office or
position and shall forfeit his office or position. Violation of
this section with the knowledge, express or implied, of the per-
son or corporation contracting with or making a sale to the
City shall render the contract or sale voidable by the City
Manager or the Council.
   Section 706. Administering Oaths. Bach departmental ad-
ministrator and such of his deputies as he may designate shall
have the power to administer oaths and affirmations in con-
nection with any official business pertaining to his department.
   Section 707. Acceptance of Other Office. Any adminis-
trative officer or any employee of the City who shall accept or
retain any elective public office shall be deemed thereby to have
resigned from his office or employment under the City govern-
ment.
   Section 708. Nepotism. The Council shall not appoint to a
salaried position in the City government any person who is a
relative by blood or marriage within the third degree of any
member of the Council, nor shall any administrative officer or
other officer having appointive power appoint any relative of
his within such degree to any such position.
   Section 709. Official Bonds. The Council shall fix by or-
dinance or resolution the amounts and terms of the official
bonds of all officers or employees who are required by ordi-
nance or resolution to give such bonds. All bonds shall be exe-
cuted by a responsible corporate surety, shall be approved as
to form by the City Attorney, and shall be filed with the City
 Clerk. Premiums on official bonds shall be paid by the City.
    There shall be no personal liability upon, or any right to
recover against, a superior officer, or his bond, for any wrong-
 ful act or omission of his subordinate, unless such superior
officer was a party to, or conspired in, such wrongful act or
 omission.
                           Article V I I I
                     Boards and Commissions
   Section 800. In General. There shall be the following
boards and commissions which shall have the powers and
duties set forth in this Charter and by ordinance not incon-
sistent with this Charter:
   Planning Commission
   Personnel Board
3452               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Res. Ch. 6

    Library Board of Trustees
    Recreation and Parks Commission
    In addition, the Council may create by ordinance such other
 boards or commissions as in its judgment are required and
 may grant to them such powers and duties as are not incon-
 sistent with the provisions of this Charter.
    Section 801. Appropriations. The Council shall include
 in its annual budget such appropriations of funds as the
 Council shall determine to be sufficient for the efficient and
 proper functioning of boards and commissions.
    Section 802. Appointments. Terms. The           number     of
 members of boards and commissions shall be specified by the
 Council. Except as hereafter provided, each member of each
 board or commission shall be appointed for a term of four
 years and shall serve until his successor qualifies; he shall be
 subject to removal by motion of the Council adopted by at
 least three affirmative votes. I n the event an incumbent is
 removed or otherwise vacates his office, his successor shall be
 appointed for the unexpired term of said office. The mem-
 bers thereof shall be appointed from the legally registered
 voters of the City, and shall not hold any other City office
 or employment.
    A member who has held office on the same board or com-
mission for two consecutive four-year terms, excluding part or
 all of any unexpired term, shall not be eligible to hold office
 on such board or commission until two years after the expira-
 tion of the second consecutive term.
    Section 803. Existing Boards. The members of the boards
 and commissions holding office when this Charter takes effect
shall continue to hold office thereafter until their respective
terms of office shall expire and until their successors are ap-
pointed and qualify.
    Section 804. Meetings. Chairmen. As soon as practi-
cable, following the first day of July of every year, each of
such boards and commissions shall organize by electing one of
its members as presiding officer, and another as chairman pro
tempore, to serve at the pleasure of such board or commission.
Each board or commission shall hold regular meetings as the
Council may require, and such special meetings as otherwise
may be necessary. The provisions of Section 411, hereof, re-
lating to the Ralph M. Brown Act, shall apply to all meetings
of boards and commissions and, subject to the provisions of
said Act, all meetings shall be open to the public.
    The affirmative vote of a majority of the entire membership
of such board or commission shall be necessary for it to take
any action except to adjourn.
    The City Manager may designate a City employee for the
recording of minutes for each of such boards and commissions,
who shall keep a record of its proceedings and transactions.
Each board or commission may prescribe its own procedures
and rules of operation which shall be kept on file in the office
                     1969
Res. Ch. 6]                 REGULAR SESSION                  3453

 of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection. Subject to any regulations and procedures estab-
lished by the Council, each board or commission shall have the
power to compel the attendance of witnesses, to examine them
under oath, to compel the production of evidence before it,
and to administer oaths and affirmations. Disobedience of any
subpoena, or refusal to testify shall be a misdemeanor and
such conduct shall be reported to the Mayor and procedures
may be taken pursuant to Section 413, hereof.
   Section 805. Compensation. Vacancies. The members of
boards and commissions shall serve without compensation for
their services as such, but may receive reimbursement for nec-
essary traveling and other expenses incurred on official duty
when such expenditures have received authorization by the
Council.
   Any vacancies in any board or commission, from whatever
cause arising, shall be filled by appointment by the Council.
Upon a vacancy occurring leaving an unexpired portion of a
term, any appointment to fill such vacancy shall be for the
unexpired portion of such term.
   If a member of a board or commission is absent from three
consecutive regular meetings of such board or commission,
unless by permission of such board or commission expressed in
its official minutes, is convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude, ceases to be a legally registered voter of the City,
or files or causes to be filed nomination papers with the City
Clerk for elective City office, his office shall become vacant and
shall be so declared by the Council.
   Section 806. Planning Commission. There shall be a City
Planning Commission which shall make recommendations to
the City Manager and the Council on all matters affecting the
physical development of the City, shall be consulted on the
general plan and the implementation thereof, and shall per-
form such other duties as may be prescribed by the Council.
   Section 807. General Plan.
    (a) Content. The Council shall adopt, and may from time
to time modify, a general plan setting forth in graphic and
textual form policies to govern the future physical develop-
ment of the City. Such plan may cover the entire City and
all of its functions and services or may consist of a combina-
tion of plans governing specific functions and services or spe-
cific geographic areas which together cover the entire City
and all of its functions and services.
    (b) Effect. The general plan shall serve as a guide to all
future Council action concerning land use, development regu-
lations, and expenditures for capital improvements.
   Section 808. Personnel Board. Powers and Duties. There
shall be a Personnel Board which shall:
   (a) Recommend to the Council, after a public hearing
thereon, the adoption, amendment, or repeal of Civil Service
rules and regulations.
3454             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 6

   (b) Act in an advisory capacity to the Council on problems
concerning personnel administration.
   (c) Hear appeals of any person in the Classified Service
relative to any suspension, demotion, or dismissal.
   (d) Make any investigation which it may consider desir-
able concerning the administration of personnel in the munici-
pal service and report its findings to the Council and City
Manager.
   (e) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
Council.
   Section 809. Library Board of Trustees. Powers and Du-
ties. There shall be a Library Board of Trustees which shall:
   (a) Administer and operate the City libraries.
   (b) Establish and enforce such by-laws, procedures, and
rules of operation as may be necessary for, and make all pur-
chases and other contracts in connection with, the administra-
tion, government, and protection of the City libraries and
shall designate its own Secretary.
   (c) Appoint and remove the Librarian, who shall be the
departmental administrator, and pass upon and approve all
proposed appointments and removals by the Librarian.
   (d) Subject to the approval of the Council, accept money,
personal property, or real estate donated to the City for
library purposes.
   (e) Subject to the approval of the Council, contract with
schools, county or other governmental agencies to render or
receive library services or facilities.
   Section 810. Recreation and Parks Commission. Powers
and Duties. There shall be a Recreation and Parks Commis-
sion which shall:
   (a) Act in an advisory capacity to the City Council in all
matters pertaining to community recreation and parks.
   (b) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
the Council.
   A contract between the City and another agency relating to
community recreation or parks may provide for membership
on the commission of representatives of such agency during the
existence of the contract.

                        Article I X
                        Civil Service
   Section 900. Existing Civil Service System. To the extent
that existing Civil Service ordinances and rules and regula-
tions of the City are not in conflict with this Charter, they
are continued in full force and effect, and to the extent that
they are in conflict they are hereby repealed.
   Section 901. Unclassified and Classified Service. The Civil
Service of the City shall be divided into the Unclassified and
the Classified Service.
   (a) The Unclassified Service shall comprise the following
officers and positions:
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 6]                 REGULAR SESSION                   3455

   1. Councilman.
   2. City Manager, City Attorney, City Clerk, Chief of Po-
lice, and Fire Chief. Assistants, deputies, and clerical and
stenographic employees authorized for said departmental ad-
ministrators and designated by the Council to be in the Un-
classified Service.
   3. All other departmental administrators.
   4. City Manager Pro Tempore
   5. Personnel Director
   6. The Librarian and all employees of the Library Depart-
ment.
   7. All members of boards and commissions.
   8. Positions in any class or grade created for a special or
temporary purpose and for a period of not exceeding one
hundred eighty days in any one calendar year.
   9. Persons employed to render professional, scientific, tech-
nical, or expert service of an occasional and exceptional char-
acter.
    10. Part-time employees.
    (b) The Classified Service shall comprise all positions not
specifically included by this section in the Unclassified Service.
    (c) There shall be a Personnel Kepresentative, who shall
be in the Classified Service and whose duties may be com-
bined with those of any other employee in the Classified Serv-
ice.
    Section 902. Appointments from Classified Service Posi-
tions. In the event an employee of the City holding a posi-
tion in the Classified Service is appointed to a position in the
Unclassified Service, and should thereafter within one year
be removed or resign therefrom, he shall revert to his former
position in the Classified Service upon the same terms and
conditions as if he had remained in said position continuously.
    Section 903. Eecruitment. Examinations of applicants for
positions in the Classified Service shall fairly test the relative
 capacity of the applicants to discharge the duties of the posi-
tions to which they seek to be appointed. Applicants must be
 citizens of the United States.
    Section 904. Suspension. Demotion and Dismissal. The
 Boards and officers having appointive power are vested with
the right to exercise the disciplinary and removal powers
 provided in this section.
    An employee holding a position in the Classified Service
 shall be subject to suspension without pay for a period not
 exceeding thirty days in any one calendar year, to demotion,
 or to removal from his position, but subject in each case to
 the right of the employee, other than one serving a proba-
 tionary period, to a hearing before the Personnel Board in
 the manner set forth herein.
    Such employee shall be entitled to receive upon his request,
 at the ofiice of the board or officer taking such action, a written
 statement in which shall be separately stated each of the
    109—1954
3456               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA              [R e S - ( J ^ 6

 charges against him upon which such suspension, demotion, or
 removal is based, a copy of which statement shall be furnished
 to the City Clerk for delivery to the Personnel Board. Such
 statement shall be furnished such employee within two busi-
 ness days after his request therefor, which request must be
 filed in the office of the City Clerk within ten days after he
 has been notified of such demotion, removal, or suspension. If
 such employee is absent from work, he shall be deemed to be
 so notified when such notice is mailed to his last address on
 file with the City by registered mail. He shall have thirty
 days after receipt of such statement within which to file with
 the City Clerk an answer to such statement of charges should
 he desire to do so.
    I n his answer, or otherwise if no statement of charges has
 been made available to him as required, such employee may
 request a hearing by the Personnel Board to review such sus-
 pension, demotion, or removal, which hearing shall be called
 and held as provided for in the rules and regulations. Within
 thirty days from such notification such answer, or request
 for a hearing, shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk for
 delivery to the Personnel Board. Hearings may be conducted
 informally and the rules of evidence need not apply.
    The Personnel Board shall make written findings which
 shall state as to each charge whether or not such charge is
 sustained. Such Board shall also set forth in writing its con-
 clusions and recommendations based upon such findings and,
within ten days after concluding the hearing, it shall certify
 its findings, conclusions, and recommendations to the City
Manager, the officer from whose action the appeal was taken,
 and the Council.
    The recommendations of the Personnel Board shall be ad-
visory only. The City Manager shall make a final decision
with respect to such recommendations and his decision shall
be final and conclusive and no further appeal shall be taken
therefrom.
    Where an appeal is taken to the Personnel Board from an
order of dismissal, the vacancy in the position shall be con-
sidered a temporary vacancy pending final action by the Per-
sonnel Board and may be filled only by a temporary appoint-
ment.
    Section 905. Political Activities Prohibited. Any City em-
ployee upon becoming a candidate for public office shall be
required to take and be granted a leave of absence without
pay to remain in effect during the period of time such person
is a candidate.
    No City employee shall take any part in any political cam-
paign while in a uniform bearing the insignia or name of the
City of Arcadia. No person shall use the administrative of-
fices and facilities of the City for the purpose of furthering a
political campaign for public office.
    Section 906. Prohibitions. General.
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                 3457

    (a) No person shall be appointed, removed, favored, or
discriminated against with respect to any City position or
office because of race, sex, political or religious opinions or
affiliations.
    (b) No person shall willfully make any false statement,
certificate, mark, rating, or report in regard to any test, cer-
tification, or appointment under the personnel provisions of
this Charter or the rules and regulations made thereunder,
or in any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud
preventing the impartial execution of such provisions, rules,
and regulations.
    (c) No person who seeks appointment or promotion with re-
spect to any City position or office shall directly or indirectly
give, render, or pay or offer to give, render, or pay any
money, service, or other valuable thing to any person for or
in connection with his test, appointment, proposed appoint-
ment, promotion, or proposed promotion.
    (d) In addition to the penalties provided in Section 1501
of this Charter, any person who by himself or with another
willfully violates any provisions of subdivision (b) and (c) of
this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be ineligible for a
period of five years for employment in the City service and
shall immediately forfeit his office or position if he be an
officer or employee of the City.

                            Article X
                            Retirment
   Section 1000. Public Employees Retirement System. Ple-
nary authority and power are hereby vested in the City, its
Council and its several officers, agents, and employees to do
and perform any act, or exercise any authority granted, per-
mitted, or required under the provisions of the Public Em-
ployees' Eetirement Law, as it now exists or hereafter may
be amended, to enable the City to continue as a contracting
City under said Retirement System. The Council may termi-
nate any such contract with the Board of Administration of
the Public Employees' Retirement System only under authority
granted by ordinance adopted by a majority vote of the legally
registered voters of the City, voting on such proposition
at an election at which such proposal is presented.

                            Article X I
                             Elections
   Section 1100. General Municipal Elections. General mu-
nicipal elections for the election of officers and for such other
purposes as the Council may prescribe shall be held in the
City on the second Tuesday in April in each even numbered
year.
3458               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [ R e s Qfr Q

   Section 1101. Special Municipal Elections. Other munici-
pal elections shall be known as special municipal elections.
   Section 1102. Procedure for Holding Elections. Unless
otherwise provided by ordinance hereafter enacted, all elec-
tions shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the
Elections Code of the State of California, as it exists or is
amended, for the holding of municipal elections, so far as the
same are not in conflict with this Charter.
   Section 1103. Initiative, Eeferendum, and Kecall. There
are hereby reserved to the voters of the City the powers of
the initiative and referendum and of the recall of municipal
elective officers. The provisions of the Elections Code of the
State of California, as it exists or is amended, governing the
initiative and referendum and the recall of municipal officers
shall apply so far as the same are not in conflict with this
Charter.
                           Article X I I
                      Fiscal Administration
    Section 1200. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the City
government shall begin on the first day of July of each year
and end on the thirtieth day of June of the following year.
The Council may by ordinance change the fiscal year.
    Section 1201. Submission of Budget and Budget Message.
On or before the twenty-fifth day of May of each year, or at
such other time as the Council may prescribe, the Manager
shall submit to the Council a budget for the ensuing fiscal
year and an accompanying message.
    The Manager's message shall explain the budget both in
 fiscal terms and in terms of the work programs. It shall outline
the proposed financial policies of the City for the ensuing
fiscal year, describe the important features of the budget, in-
dicate any major changes from the current year in financial
policies, expenditures, and revenues together with the reasons
for such changes, summarize the City's debt position, and in-
clude such other material as the Manager deems desirable.
    Section 1202. Budget. The budget shall provide a com-
plete financial plan of all City funds and activities for the
ensuing fiscal year and, except as required by law or this
Charter, shall be in such form as the Manager deems desirable
or the Council may require. In organizing the budget the
Manager shall utilize the most feasible combination of expendi-
ture classification by fund, organization unit, program, pur-
pose or activity, and object. It shall begin with a clear general
summary of its contents; shall show in detail all estimated
income, indicating the proposed property tax levy, and all
proposed expenditures, including debt service, for the ensuing
fiscal year; and shall be so arranged as to show comparative
figures for actual and estimated income and expenditures of
the preceding fiscal year. It shall indicate in separate sections:
    (a) Proposed expenditures for current operations during
the ensuing fiscal year, detailed by offices, departments, and
                    1969
Res. Ch. 6]                REGtrLAn SESSION                3459

agencies in terms of their respective work programs, and the
method of financing such expenditures;
    (b) Proposed capital expenditures during the ensuing
fiscal year, detailed by offices, departments, and agencies when
practicable, and the proposed method of financing each such
capital expenditure; and
   (c) Anticipated net surplus or deficit for the ensuing fiscal
year of each utility owned or operated by the City and the
proposed method of its disposition.
   The total of proposed expenditures shall not exceed the
total of estimated income plus available reserves.
   Section 1203. Capital Program. As used in this section a
capital improvement shall mean an improvement with an esti-
mated cost in excess of $10,000 and a probable life in excess
of ten years.
   (a) Submission to Council. The Manager shall prepare
and submit to the Council a five-year capital program at least
three months prior to the final date for submission of the
budget.
   (b) Contents. The capital program shall include:
   1. A clear general summary of its contents;
   2. A list of all capital improvements which are proposed
to be undertaken during the five fiscal years next ensuing,
with appropriate supporting information as to the necessity
for such improvements;
   3. Cost estimates, method of financing and recommended
time schedules for each such improvement; and
   4. The estimated annual cost of operating and maintaining
the facilities to be constructed or acquired.
   The above information may be revised and extended each
year with regard to capital improvements still pending or in
process of construction or acquisition.
   Section 1204. Council Action on Budget.
   (a) Notice and Hearing. The Council shall publish in
the official newspaper a general summary of the budget and
a notice stating:
   1. The times and places where copies of the message and
budget are available for inspection by the public, and
   2. The time and place, not less than ten days after such
publication, for a public hearing on the budget.
   (b) Further Consideration and Adoption. After the con-
clusion of the public hearing the Council shall further con-
sider the proposed budget and make any revision thereof that
it may deem advisable and on or before July 1 it shall adopt
the budget. Adoption of the budget shall constitute appro-
priations of the amounts specified therein as expenditures
from the funds indicated. If it fails to adopt the budget by
said date, the amounts appropriated for current operation
for the current fiscal year shall be deemed adopted for the
ensuing fiscal year on a month-to-month basis, with all
3460              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 6

 items in it prorated accordingly, until such time as the
 Council adopts a budget for the ensuing fiscal year.
    Section 1205. Council Action on Capital Program.
    (a) Notice and Hearing. The Council shall publish in the
 official newspaper a general summary of the capital program
 and a notice stating:
    1. The times and places where copies of the capital pro-
 gram are available for inspection by the public, and
    2. The time and place, not less than ten days after such
publication, for a public hearing on the capital program.
     (b) Adoption. The Council by resolution shall adopt the
 capital program with or without amendment after the
public hearing and on or before the thirty-first day of March
 of each year, or at such other time as the Council may
 designate.
    Section 1206. Public Eecords. Copies of the budget and
the capital program as adopted shall be public records and
shall be made available to the public at suitable places in the
 City.
    Section 1207. Amendments After Adoption.
    (a) Supplemental Appropriations. If during the fiscal
year the Manager certifies that there are available for appro-
priation revenues in excess of those estimated in the budget,
the Council by resolution may make supplemental appropria-
tions for the year up to the amount of such excess.
    (b) Eeduction of Appropriations. If at any time during
the fiscal year it appears probable to the Manager that the
revenues available will be insufficient to meet the amount ap-
propriated, he shall report to the Council without delay, in-
dicating the estimated amount of the deficit, any remedial
action taken by him and his recommendations as to any other
steps to be taken. The Council shall then take such further
action as it deems necessary to prevent or minimize any deficit
and for that purpose it may by resolution reduce one or more
appropriations.
    (c) Transfer of Appropriations. At any time during the
fiscal year the Manager may transfer part or all of any un-
encumbered appropriation balance among programs within a
department, office, or agency and, upon written request by
the Manager, the Council may by resolution transfer part or
all of any unencumbered appropriation balance from one
department, office, or agency to another.
    (d) Limitations; Effective Date. No appropriation for
debt service may be reduced or transferred, and no appro-
priation may be reduced below any amount required by law
to be appropriated or by more than the amount of the un-
encumbered balance thereof. The supplemental appropriations
and reduction or transfer of appropriations authorized by this
section may be made effective immediately upon adoption.
    Section 1208. Lapse of Appropriations. Every appropri-
ation, except an appropriation for a capital expenditure, shall
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 6]                 REGULAR SESSION                   3451

lapse at the close of the fiscal year to the extent that it has not
been expended or encumbered. An appropriation for a
capital expenditure shall continue in force until the purpose
for which it was made has been accomplished or abandoned;
the purpose of any such appropriation shall be deemed aban-
doned if three years pass without any disbursement from or
encumbrance of the appropriation.
   Section 1209. Tax Limits.
    (a) The Council shall not levy a property tax, for munic-
ipal purposes, in excess of One Dollar and Thirty Cents an-
nually on each One Hundred Dollars of the assessed value
of taxable property in the City, except as otherwise provided
in this section, unless authorized by the affirmative votes of a
majority of the voters voting on a proposition to increase such
levy at any election at which the question of such additional
levy for municipal purposes is submitted to the voters. The
number of years that such additional levy is to be made shall
be specified in such proposition.
   (b) There shall be levied and collected at the time and in
the same manner as other property taxes for municipal pur-
poses are levied and collected, as additional taxes, if no other
provision for payment thereof is made:
   1. A tax sufficient to meet all liabilities of the City for
principal and interest of all bonds or judgments due and
unpaid, or to become due during the ensuing fiscal year,
which constitute general obligations of the City; and
   2. A tax sufficient to meet all obligations of the City to the
Public Employees Eetirement System for the retirement of
City employees, due and unpaid or to become due during the
ensuing fiscal year.
   Section 1210. Tax Procedure. The procedure for the
assessment, levy, and collection of taxes upon property, tax-
able for municipal purposes, may be prescribed by ordinance
of the Council.
   Section 1211. Bonded Debt Limit. The City shall not in-
cur an indebtedness evidenced by general obligation bonds
which shall in the aggregate exceed the sum of fifteen percent
of the total assessed value, for purposes of City taxation, of
all taxable real and personal property within the City.
   No bonded indebtedness which shall constitute a general ob-
ligation of the City may be created unless authorized by the
affirmative votes of two-thirds of the voters voting on such
proposition at any election at which the question is submitted
to the voters and unless in compliance with the provisions of
the State Constitution and of this Charter.
   Section 1212. Contracts on Public Works. Every project
involving an expenditure of more than Six Thousand Dollars
for the construction, improvement, repair, or maintenance of
public works shall be let by the Council by contract to the low-
est responsible bidder after notice by publication in the offi-
3462               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [Res. Ch. 6

 eial newspaper by one or more insertions, the first of which
 shall be at least ten days before the time for opening bids.
    Projects for the maintenance or repair of public works are
 excepted from the requirements of this paragraph if the
 Council determines that such work can be performed more
 economically by a City department than by contracting for
 the doing of such work.
    The Council may reject any and all bids presented and may
 readvertise in its discretion.
    The Council, after rejecting bids, or if no bids are re-
 ceived, may declare and determine that, in its opinion, based
 on estimates approved by the City Manager, the work in ques-
 tion may be performed better or more economically by the
 City with its own employees and after the adoption of a reso-
 lution to this effect by at least four affirmative votes of the
 Council may proceed to have said work done, without further
 observance of the provisions of this section.
    Such contracts may be let and such purchases made without
 advertising for bids, if such work shall be deemed by the
 Council to be of urgent necessity for the preservation of life,
 health, or property, and shall be authorized by resolution
 passed by at least four affirmative votes of the Council and
 containing a declaration of the facts constituting such ur-
 gency.
    Section 1213. Cash Basis Fund. The Council shall main-
 tain a revolving fund, to be known as the "Cash Basis F u n d , "
for the purpose of placing the payment of the operating ex-
 penses of the City on a cash basis. A reserve shall be built up
in this fund from any available sources in an amount which
 the Council deems sufficient with which to meet all lawful de-
mands against the City for the first five months, or other nec-
essary period, of the succeeding fiscal year prior to the re-
ceipt of ad valorem tax revenues. Transfers may be made by
the Council from such fund to any other fund of such sum
as may be required for the purpose of placing such fund on
a cash basis.
   All moneys so transferred from the Cash Basis Fund shall
be returned thereto before the end of the fiscal year.
   Section 1214. Presentation and Audit of Demands. Any
demand against the City must be in writing and may be in
the form of a bill, invoice, payroll, or formal demand. Each
such demand shall be presented to the Director of Finance,
who shall examine the same. If the amount thereof is legally
due and there remains on his books an unexhausted balance
of an appropriation against which the same may be charged,
he shall approve such demand and draw his warrant on the
Treasurer therefor, payable out of the proper fund.
   The Director of Finance shall transmit such demand, with
his approval or rejection thereof endorsed thereon, and war-
rant, if any, to the City Manager. If a demand is one for an
item included within an approved budget appropriation, it
                    1969
Res. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                  3463

 shall require the approval of the City Manager, otherwise it
shall require the approval of the Council, following the adop-
tion by it of an amendment to the budget authorizing such
payment. Any person dissatisfied with the refusal of the City
Manager to approve any demand, in whole or in part, may
present the same to the Council which, after examining into
the matter, may approve or disapprove the demand in whole
or in part.
   Section 1215. Registering Warrants. "Warrants on the
Treasurer which are not paid for lack of funds shall be reg-
istered. All registered warrants shall be paid in the order of
their registration when funds therefor are available and shall
bear interest from the date of registration at such rate as shall
be fixed by the Council by resolution.
   Section 1216. Claims Against the City. The Council by
ordinance may provide for conditions precedent to the com-
mencement of any action or proceeding to bringing suit
against the City, its officers and employees, except as the sub-
ject is preempted by State law.
   Section 1217. Independent Audit. The City Council shall
employ at the beginning of each fiscal year, a certified public
accountant who shall, at such time or times as may be specified
by the City Council, and at such other times as he shall de-
termine, examine the books, records, inventories and reports
of all officers and employees who receive, handle, or disburse
public funds and all such other officers, employees, or depart-
ments as the City Council may direct. As soon as practicable
after the end of the fiscal year, a final certified audit and re-
port shall be submitted by such accountant to the City Coun-
cil, one copy thereof to be distributed to each member, one to
the City Manager, Director of Finance, Treasurer, and City
Attorney, respectively, and three additional copies to be placed
on file in the office of the City Clerk where they shall be
available for inspection by the general public.

                           Article X I I I
                            Franchises
   Section 1300. Granting of Franchises. The Council may
grant a franchise to any person, partnership, corporation, or
other legal entity capable of exercising the privilege con-
ferred, whether operating under an existing franchise or not,
and may prescribe the terms, conditions, and limitations of
such grant, including the compensation to be paid to the City
therefor. The Council may prescribe by ordinance or resolu-
tion the method or procedure for granting franchises, together
with additional terms and conditions for making such grants.
In the absence of such provision the method provided by the
general laws of the State shall apply.
   Section 1301. Term of Franchise. No franchise shall be
granted for a longer period than twenty-five years, unless
there be reserved to the City the right to take over at any
 3464              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Bes. Ch. 6

 time the works, plant, and property constructed under the
 grant at their physical valuation and without compensation
 for franchise or good will.
    Section 1302. Eminent Domain. No franchise or grant
 of a franchise shall in any way or to any extent impair or
 affect the right of the City to acquire the property of the
 possessor thereof by purchase or condemnation, and nothing
therein contained shall be construed to contract away or to
modify or abridge, either for a term or in perpetuity, the
 City's right of eminent domain with respect to the property
of the possessor of any franchise. Every franchise granted by
the City is granted upon the condition, whether expressed
in the grant or not, that such franchise shall not be given any
value before any court or other public authority in any pro-
ceeding of any character in excess of any amount actually
paid by the grantee to the City at the time of the grant.
    Section 1303. Procedure for Granting Franchises. Before
granting any franchise, the City Council shall adopt a resolu-
tion declaring its intention to grant same and stating the name
of the proposed grantee, the character of the proposed fran-
chise, and the terms and conditions upon which it is proposed
to be granted. Such resolution shall fix and set forth the day,
hour, and place when and where any person having an interest
in or objecting to the granting of such franchise may appear
before the Council and be heard thereon. Said resolution shall
be published at least once, not less than ten days prior to
said hearing, in the official newspaper. After hearing all per-
sons desiring to be heard, the Council may by ordinance deny
or grant the franchise on the terms and conditions specified
in the resolution subject to the referendum of the people. No
ordinance granting a franchise shall be adopted as an emer-
gency ordinance.
                          Article XIV
                       Board of Education
   Section 1400. Establishment of a Board of Education.
The control, management, and administration of the public
schools of the City of Arcadia and the territory that is now
or may hereafter be annexed thereto for school purposes, in
accordance with the Constitution and general laws of the State
of California, is hereby vested in a Board of Education con-
sisting of five members who shall be voters in the school
district; said Board is hereby vested with all the powers and
charged with all the duties provided by the laws of the State
for city boards of education.
   Section 1401. Term of Office. The members of such Board
of Education shall be elected from the school district at large
and shall hold office for the term of four years, and until their
successors are elected and duly qualified.
   Section 1402. Election. School board elections shall be
held on the third Tuesday of April of each odd numbered
year. The members of such Board of Education holding office
                     1969
 Res. Ch. 6]                REGULAR SESSION                 3465

  at the time this Charter becomes effective shall continue in
  office for their respective terms of office and until their re-
  spective successors are elected and duly qualified as herein
  provided. The officers of the election for members of the Board
  of Education shall be compensated for their services as pro-
  vided by the general laws of the State governing school elec-
  tions; such compensation and any other expense incurred in
  the conduct of said election shall be a charge upon the School
  District and not upon the City.
     In the preparation of ballots for the election of members of
  the Board of Education, there shall be printed, stamped, or
 written the name of each candidate for such office who has
 officially announced himself sixty days prior to the date of the
 election by filing or having filed with the Secretary of the
 Board of Education a written statement signed by him that
 he is a candidate for the office of member of the Board of
 Education.
    In all other matters the election for members of the Board
 of Education shall be governed by the general law of the
 State relating to the election of city boards of education.
    Section 1403. Meetings. The members of the Board of
 Education shall enter upon the discharge of their duties on
the first Monday in July after their election, and the Board
 shall meet upon said day and annually thereafter and organize
by electing one of their number President and one of their
number Vice-President, whose terms of office shall be one year.
They shall hold regular meetings at least once each month,
at such time and place as may be determined by their rules.
Special meetings may be called by the President or by written
request of any three members. A majority of the members shall
constitute a quorum. The Board may determine the rules of
its proceedings, and the ayes and noes shall be taken and
recorded when demanded by any member, and entered on the
records of the Board. Any vacancy occurring on the Board
shall be filled by the remaining members of the Board, and
if there be no members, then by the Council.
    Section 1404. Board Secretary. The Board of Education
shall, at the first meeting in each school year, or at such other
time as shall be fixed by resolution of the Board, appoint a
secretary, who may or may not be one of their own number,
and shall prescribe the duties and fix the salary of such sec-
retary.
    Section 1405. General Law Applicable. I n all matters not
specifically provided for in this Article, the Board of Educa-
tion shall be governed by the provisions of the general law
relating to such matters.

                             Article XV
                            Miscellaneous
  Section 1500. Definitions. Unless the provision or the
context otherwise requires, as used in this Charter:
3466              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             TRes. Ch. 6

    (a) " S h a l l " is mandatory, and " m a y " is permissive.
    (b) " C i t y " is the City of Arcadia, and "department,"
" b o a r d , " "commission," "agency," "officer," or "employee"
is a department, board, commission, agency, officer, or em-
ployee, as the case may be, of the City of Arcadia.
    (c) " Council" is the City Council of the City.
    (d) " Councilman" is a member of the Council.
    (e) "Departmental administrator" is the person in charge
of a City department.
    (f) "Government Code" is the California Government
 Code as it exists upon adoption of this Charter, or is there-
after amended.
    (g) "Municipal Code" is the Arcadia Municipal Code,
    (h) " L a w " includes ordinance.
    (i) "Officer" is a person holding an elected office, a mem-
ber of a board or commission, the City Manager, and a de-
partmental administrator in charge of a City department or
a person acting in his place.
    (j) " State'' is the State of California.
    (k) " Voter " is a legally registered voter.
    (I) The masculine, feminine, and neuter genders shall be
interchangeable, as shall be the singular and plural.
    Section 1501. Violations. A violation of this Charter or
of any ordinance of the City shall constitute a misdemeanor
 and may be prosecuted in the name of the People of the State
 of California or may be redressed by civil action filed by the
 City. The maximum fine or penalty for any violation of a
 City ordinance shall be the sum of Five Hundred Dollars, or
 a term of imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months,
 or both such fine and imprisonment.
    Section 1502. Validity. If any provision of this Charter,
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the remainder of the Charter, and the applica-
tion of such provision to other persons or circumstances,
shall not be affected thereby.

   That the foregoing is an exact copy of the proposed new
charter submitted to the voters of said City by said ordinance
No. 1392.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
have caused the corporate seal of the City of Arcadia to be
affixed hereto this 30th day of December, 1968.
                                D O N "W. HAGB
                                Don W. Hage, Mayor of the
  (SEAL)                          City of Arcadia
                                CHRISTINE V A N MAANEN
                                Christine Van Maanen, City
                                  Clerk of the City of Arcadia

   WHEREAS, Pursuant to Article X I , Section 8, of the Constitu-
tion of the State of California, said proposed new charter,
                         1969
Res. Ch. 7]                     REGULAR SESSION                         34g7

ratified as hereinbefore set forth, has been, and now is sub-
mitted to the Legislature of the State of California for ap-
proval or rejection without power of alteration or amend-
ment ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all of the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said Charter of the City of Arcadia as proposed to,
adopted and ratified by the qualified voters of said city, as
hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same is hereby ap-
proved as a whole, without amendment or alteration, as the
Charter of the City of Arcadia.


                    RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 7
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 3—Relative to
              memorializing Joseph Allan Beek.
              [Filed with Secretary of State J a n u a r y 16, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature were deeply
grieved to learn of the death on October 20, 1968, of the Secre-
tary of the Senate, Joseph Allan Beek; and
  WHEREAS, Mr. Beek, or more familiarly " J o e " as he was
known to literally hundreds of legislators, was first employed
by the California State Senate in 1913, and served in the
capacity of secretary from his first election to the office in
1919 to the end of his life, a period of 50 years; and
   WHEREAS, Joseph Beek was a native of Maine who spent
his early teens in Colorado before becoming a resident of
Southern California, first in Pasadena and later on Balboa
Island; and
   WHEREAS, A master mariner and lifelong devotee of sail-
ing, fishing, and other water activities, he was the prime de-
veloper of Beacon Bay, Balboa Yacht Basin and Harbor
Island, served as commodore of the Newport Harbor Yacht
Club and the Southern California Yachting Association, was
the first harbormaster of Newport Harbor and first Chair-
man of the Small Crafts Harbors Commission of the State of
California, and for 50 years operated a fleet of three ferry-
boats between Balboa Island and the mainland; and
   WHEREAS, During World War I I , when not engaged in
his duties for the Legislature, he served his country as a con-
voy commodore in the Army Transport Service in the Pacific;
and
   WHEREAS, Joseph Beek was President of the American As-
sociation of Legislative Officers, and was the author of " T h e
California Legislature," an authoritative book on the legisla-
tive machinery of this state, and of the booklet " I s a Flag
Worth Fighting F o r ? " , which won a Freedoms Foundation
 award;and
 3468                STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA                      [Res. Ch. 8

    WHEREAS, With his extensive knowledge of the legislative
 process and his ready •willingness to be of service whenever
 needed, Joe Beek was the trusted friend and devoted assistant
 of every Senator, and will be sorely missed by all who
 worked with him during his long tenure; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
 sembly thereof concurring, That the members hereby pay
 tribute to the memory of Secretary Joseph Allan Beek, an
 incomparable public officer in the annals of the California
 Legislature; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suit-
 ably prepared copies of this resolution to Mrs. Joseph A.
 Beek, and to his sons, Barton Beek, Allan Beek, and Seymour
 Beek.

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 8
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 4—Relative to the
                death of Senator George Miller, Jr.
             [Filed with Secretary of State January 16, 1969.]

      WHEEEAS, It was with sad hearts and an intense sense of
 personal loss that the Members of the California Legislature
 learned of the tragic and untimely death on January 1, 1969,
 of a man whose presence for the past 22 years has brightened,
 enlivened, and invigorated the California Legislature, their
 distinguished colleague and friend, Senator George Miller,
 J r . ; and
     WHEREAS, A native of Oakland, George Miller, Jr., was
 educated in the public schools of Richmond, St. Mary's Col-
lege in Moraga, and the School of Jurisprudence in Oakland,
and, in his private life, was an accountant, property manager,
 and insurance broker; and
     WHEREAS, After beginning his long and dedicated career of
public service in 1936, as Assistant Director for Recreation for
the City of Richmond, he was Deputy Collector of Internal
Revenue for the Berkeley-Contra Costa Zone from 1938 to
1942;and
    WHEREAS, The people of Contra Costa County, who first
elected this dynamic legislator to represent them in the Assem-
bly and then, for two decades, chose him as their voice in the
Senate, were served ably and well; and
    WHEREAS, This wise choice not only benefited the prosper-
ity, welfare, and diverse interests of their county, which Sena-
tor Miller enhanced and protected with skill, zeal and ferocity,
but it gave to all the people of California the benefit of his
talents, foresight, and wisdom as a leader in their govern-
ment ; and
    WHEREAS, His colleagues and associates in the halls of the
California Capitol knew him as a public servant of abundant
                     1969
Res. Ch. 8]                 REGULAR SESSION                 3469

  ability, imagination, and intense integrity; respected him as
  an adversary of consummate courage and tenacity; consulted
 him as a keen analyst of formidable problems; enjoyed the
 rare humor, wit, and wisdom he articulated in resounding bass
 tones when he spoke; and loved him as a friend for his deep
 compassion, his personal humility, his steadfast loyalty and.
 generosity; and
    WHEREAS, Senator Miller's contributions to the fiscal sta-
 bility of the State of California as the dedicated and brilliant
 chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance and the im-
 provement of California's educational system will long benefit
 the present and future citizenry of this state; and
    WHEREAS, During the 1968 session of the Legislature, he
 authored legislation which gave local school districts more di-
 rect control over their curriculum and lifted rigid state course
 requirements which was fondly called by him a "Magna
 Carta for Schools"; and
    WHEREAS, By his forceful words and deeds, he successfully
 fought to preserve the legislative branch as a full and equal
 partner in state government, and resisted with spectacular
 tenacity all threats—regardless of the political partisanship
 of the source—upon the independence of the Legislature; and
    WHEREAS, He also served as Chairman of the Democratic
National Convention delegation from California in 1952 and
as Chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee for
the 1952-54 term; and
    WHEREAS, An active and vital man, he was an ardent fisher-
man who spent his vacations on his boat in the Sacramento-
San Joaquin Delta, and he was a former swimming and diving
coach, taking part in the annual Golden Gate Channel swims
for many years; and
    WHEREAS, Senator Miller is survived by his gracious wife,
Dorothy Rumsey Miller; a son, George Miller, I I I ; and three
daughters, Sister Laura Miller, Mrs. Gretchen Daloisio, and
Kate; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Members of the Califor-
nia Legislature mourn the untimely passing of their distin-
giiished colleague and friend, Senator George Miller, Jr., and
express their deepest condolences to his widow and children;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the members commend the spirit and
achievements of Senator George Miller, Jr., to the citizens of
the State of California as an example of selfless dedication
and service to the welfare of his fellow citizens and to the
betterment of mankind; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suit-
ably prepared copies of this resolution to the widow and
children of Senator George Miller, Jr.
3470                 STATUTES OP C A I J F O R N I A                  [Res. Ch. 9

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 9
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 10—Approving a certain
  amendment to the Charter of the City of Santa Cruz, a mu-
  nicipal corporation in the County of Santa Cruz, State of
  California, voted for and ratified by the qualified electors of
  the city at a special municipal charter amendment election
  held therein on the fifth day of November, 1968.
            [Filed with Secretary of State J a n u a r y 16, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption and ratification of a certain amendment to the
Charter of the City of Santa Cruz, a municipal corporation in
the County of Santa Cruz, State of California, as hereinafter
set forth in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of said
city, as follows, to wit:
  CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
        SANTA CRUZ OF CERTAIN CHARTER AMENDMENTS

State of California  1
County of Santa Cruz > ss.
City of Santa Cruz   J

   We, the undersigned, Raymond H. Goodrich, Mayor of the
 City of Santa Cruz, and A. J. Miller, City Clerk of the City
of Santa Cruz, do hereby certify and declare as follows :
   That the City of Santa Cruz, County of Santa Cruz, State
of California, is a city containing a population of more than
three thousand five hundred (3,500) and less than fifty thou-
sand (50,000) inhabitants as ascertained by the last preceding
census taken under the authority of the Congress of the United
States, and ever since the year 1948 has been and is now or-
ganized, existing and acting under a freeholders charter
adopted under and by virtue of Section 8 of Article XI, of the
Constitution of the State of California, which charter was duly
ratified by the qualified electors of said city at a special elec-
tion held for that purpose on the 2nd day of March, 1948, and
approved by the Legislature of the State of California by con-
current resolution filed with the Secretary of State on the 27th
day of March, 1948 (Statutes of 1948, page 312).
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Arti-
cle X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
Council of the City of Santa Cruz, being the legislative body
of said city, on its own motion, by its Resolution No. NS-9183,
adopted on August 13, 1968, duly and regularly proposed
and submitted to the qualified electors of said city a certain
proposal for the amendment of the Charter of said City, to be
voted on by said qualified electors at a Special Municipal
Charter Amendment Election, consolidated by said Resolution
No. NS-9183 with the Statewide General Election held in said
City on November 5,1968.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 9]                 REGuiiAR SESSION                 3471

    That said proposed amendment was published and adver-
 tised for the time and in the manner prescribed in Section 8
 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California,
viz., on the 10th day of September, 1968, in the Santa Cruz
 Sentinel, the official newspaper of said City of Santa Cruz, a
newspaper of general circulation printed and published in
said City of Santa Cruz, and in each edition thereof during
said day of publication.
    That said Special Municipal Charter Amendment Election
was duly called, held and conducted in the time, form and
manner required by the Charter of said City and by law on
said 5th day of November, 1968, which day was not less than
forty (40) and not more than sixty (60) days after the com-
pletion of said publication and advertisement of said proposed
amendment in said Santa Cruz Sentinel.
    That a majority of the qualified voters voting on the pro-
posal number 1 voted in favor thereof.
    That the Council of said City of Santa Cruz on December
17, 1968, officially confirmed the canvass of all ballots cast at
said Special Municipal Charter Amendment Election, and did,
by resolution, duly find and declare that a majority of the
qualified voters voting on said charter amendment voted in
favor of the ratification of and did ratify proposal number 1,
and that said charter amendment was ratified.
    That said charter amendment so ratified by the majority of
the qualified voters of said City voting at said Special Munic-
ipal Charter Amendment Election is in words and figures
following, to-wit:

Proposal No. 1:
   By amending Section 1428 of Article X I V thereof, to read
as follows:
  "Section 1428. City Property. The rights of the City in
and to the waterfront and tidelands vested in it in fee or in
trust, are inalienable, unless authorized by the affirmative vote
of the majority of the qualified electors of the City of Santa
Cruz. Other City property in use for a public purpose shall
be inalienable, except for the same or another public purpose,
unless authorized by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
qualified electors of the City voting on the proposition, except
such other property as may be determined by the affirmative
vote of five (5) members of the Council to be no longer nec-
essary for public purposes.''

   And we, and each of us, further certify that we have com-
pared the foregoing proposed and ratified amendment to the
Charter of the City of Santa Cruz with the original proposal
submitting the same to the electors of said City and find t h a t
the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of said amend-
ment.
  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands a n d
caused the seal of the City of Santa Cruz to be affixed hereto
this 19th day of December, 1968.
3472               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 10

                                 RAYMOND H. GOODRICH
  (SEAL)                         Mayor of the City of Santa Cruz
                                 A. J. MILLER
                                 City Clerk of the City of Santa
                                   Cruz
and
   WHEREAS, The proposed charter amendment as ratified as
hereinabove set forth has been and now is duly submitted
to the Legislature of the State of California for approval or
rejection, as a whole without power of alteration or amend-
ment, in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Con-
stitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of Santa Cruz,
as proposed to and adopted and ratified by the electors of said
city, as hereinbefore fully set forth, is hereby approved as a
whole, without alteration or amendment, for and as amend-
ment to and as part of the Charter of said City of Santa Cruz.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 10
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 7—Approving     amendments
  to the Charter of the City and County of San Francisco
  voted for and ratified by the electors of said City and
  County of San Francisco at a general election held therein
  on the fifth day of November, 1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 16, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The City and County of San Francisco, State of
California, contains a population of over 500,000 inhabitants,
and has been ever since the eighth day of January, in the
year 1932, and is now organized and acting under a free-
holders' charter adopted under and by virtue of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California,
which charter was duly ratified by the qualified electors of said
city and county at an election held for that purpose on the
26th day of March, 1931, and approved by the Legislature of
the State of California and filed in the office of the Secretary
of State on the fifth day of May, 1931 (Statutes of 1931,
page 2973); and
   WHEREAS, The legislative authority of said city and county,
namely, the board of supervisors thereof, duly proposed to the
qualified electors of the city and county five (5) amendments
to said charter; and
   WHEREAS, Said legislative authority, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of
the State of California, did cause said five (5) proposed amend-
                     1969
Res. Ch. 10]                REGULAR SESSION                   3473

 ments to said charter to be published, once in the official news-
 paper of the said City and County of San Francisco and each
 edition thereof issued or published on the date of said pub-
 lication, to wit, in the ' ' San Francisco Examiner,'' a newspaper
 of general circulation in the City and County of San Fran-
 cisco and the official newspaper of said city and county; and
    "WHEREAS, Said legislative body caused copies of said
 charter amendments to be printed in convenient pamphlet
 form and in type of not less than 10-point, and caused copies
 thereof to be mailed to each of the qualified electors of said
 City and County of San Francisco, and until the day fixed
for the election upon said charter amendments, advertised in
said " S a n Francisco Examiner," a newspaper of general cir-
culation in the City and County of San Francisco, a notice
that copies of said charter amendments could be had upon
application therefor at the office of the board of supervisors;
and
    WHEREAS, The said legislative authority of said city and
county ordered placed upon the ballot at a general election to
be held in the City and County of San Francisco on the fifth
day of November, 1968, the said five (5) several proposals to
amend the charter of the City and County of San Francisco;
and
    WHEREAS, Said general election was held in said City and
 County of San Francisco on the fifth day of November, 1968,
which day was more than 40 days and less than 60 days from
the completion of the publication of said proposed charter
amendments for one day in said " S a n Francisco Examiner,"
and each edition thereof as hereinbefore set forth; and
    WHEREAS, The registrar of voters did, in the manner pro-
vided by law, duly and regularly canvass the returns of said
election, and on the 10th day of December, 1968, duly certify
to the board of supervisors the results of said general election
as determined from the canvass of the returns thereof; and
   WHEREAS, At said general election so held on the fifth day
of November, 1968, all five (5) of said proposed amendments
were ratified by a majority of the electors of said city and
county voting thereon, to wit, charter amendments designated
as Propositions C, D, E, F , G; and
    WHEREAS, The said charter amendments so ratified by the
electors of the City and County of San Francisco are now sub-
mitted to the Legislature of the State of California for ap-
proval or rejection as a whole without power of alteration or
amendment in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, and
are in words and figures as follows:

                            Proposition C
  Describing and setting forth a proposal to the qualified elec-
tors of the City and County of San Francisco to amend the
g474              StfAtfUTES OP CALIFORNIA          tiles. Ch. 10

Charter of said city and county by amending Section 47
thereof, and adding Sections 48.2, 48.3 and 48.4 thereto relat-
ing to control of the harbor by the City and County of San
Francisco.
   The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San
Francisco hereby submits to the qualified electors of said city
and county at an election to be held therein on Tuesday, the
5th day of November, 1968, a proposal to amend the charter of
said city and county by amending Section 47 thereof and add-
ing Sections 48.2, 48.3 and 48.4 thereto, so that the same shall
read as follows:
    Section 47. Until such time as the voters of the City and
County of San Francisco, at an election duly held and con-
ducted, have assented to the transfer of the jurisdiction and
control of the harbor of San Francisco under the terms and
conditions specified in Statutes 1968, ch. 1333, and the results
of said election have been certified to according to law, this
section and sections 48 and 48.1 of the charter shall continue
in force, and until such time, sections 48.2, 48.3 and 48.4 shall
be inoperative. Upon certification of the vote specified herein,
this section and sections 48 and 48.1 of the charter shall be-
come inoperative for any purpose, and sections 48.2, 48.3 and
 48.4 of the charter shall become operative.
    Whenever the State of California shall grant, or by legisla-
tive action agree to grant, to the City and County of San
Francisco all or a substantial part of the property now under
the jurisdiction, possession, control and management of the
board of state harbor commissioners, including the interest
of the State of California in that portion of the bay of San
Francisco now controlled by the board of state harbor com-
missioners and used as the harbor of San Francisco, the said
city and county shall accept the same, and shall thereafter have
authority to manage, govern, administer and control, all and
singular, the property, rights and privileges granted, assigned
or conveyed by the said State of California. Said city and
county shall also have power, subject to the bond issue proce-
dure provided for in this charter, or now or hereafter pro-
vided for by the laws of the State of California to assume an
obligation or obligations to the State of California for the
outstanding bonded indebtedness incurred by the State of
 California for the acquisition, construction, improvement and
development of the said harbor or of the properties used in
connection therewith, or to issue new and additional bonds
therefor; and any and all indebtedness assumed or bonds
 issued for said purpose shall not be included in the bonded
 debt limit provided for in section 104 of this charter, and if
 thereafter any additional bonded indebtedness is incurred to
 improve, construct, re-construct or extend said harbor, or to
 add thereto or to renew, construct or re-construct, operate or
 extend any service or equipment or utility used in connection
 with said harbor or in connection with the operation thereof,
                    1969
Res. Ch. 10]               REGULAR SESSION                 3475

said bonded indebtedness so incurred shall also be exempt from
the limitations contained in section 104 of this charter. All the
powers and duties incident to the management, government,
control and administration of the said harbor, and all proper-
ties and utilities used in connection therewith, shall be vested
in the harbor commission of the City and County of San Fran-
cisco.
   Said harbor commission of the City and County of San
Francisco shall consist of five members to be appointed by the
mayor, one of whom shall be a representative of the agricul-
tural interests of the State of California and need not be a
resident of the city and county. The term of office of each of
said members shall be five years, provided that those first ap-
pointed to said commission shall so qualify themselves by lot
that their terms of office shall expire respectively, one, two,
three, four and five years after the 15th day of January next
after their respective appointments. Vacancies on said board
shall be filled by the mayor for the unexpired term. Bach of
said persons appointed to said commission shall give a bond in
the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) duly conditioned
for the faithful performance of his duties and said persons so
appointed shall be subject to recall, suspension, and removal
in the same manner as an elective official. The compensation
of each of the members of said harbor commission shall be
twelve hundred dollars ($1,200) per year.
   Section 48.2. The City and County of San Francisco shall
accept the transfer and assume jurisdiction and control of
the harbor of San Francisco and the facilities thereof in ac-
cordance with the terms and conditions of Statutes 1968, ch.
1333.
   Any and all indebtedness assumed for said purposes shall
not be included in the bond debt limit provided for in section
104 of this charter, and if thereafter any additional bonded
indebtedness is incurred to improve said harbor in connection
with the operation thereof, said bonded indebtedness so in-
curred shall also be exempt from the limitations contained in
section 104 of this charter. All the powers and duties incident
to the management, government, control and administration
of said harbor and all properties and utilities used in connec-
tion therewith, shall be vested in the Port Commission of the
 City and County of San Francisco.
   The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San
Francisco shall have and is hereby granted power to enter
into any agreement with the State of California, the Director
 of Finance, or any officer, agency or commission of the State
 of California, and to pass all necessary legislation and to do
 or perform any other act or acts deemed necessary to effect
the transfer of the jurisdiction and control of the harbor of
San Francisco, or any of the facilities thereof, to the City
and County of San Francisco,
 3476               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             [Ees. Ch. 10

     The San Francisco Port Commission shall consist of five
  members who shall be appointed by the mayor, their appoint-
  ment being subject to confirmation by the Board of Super-
  visors. Each of said members shall serve for a term of four
  years. Vacancies on the commission shall be filled by the mayor
  for the unexpired portion of the term. Initial appointive mem-
  bers of the commission shall consist of the incumbent members
  of the San Francisco Port Authority, who shall serve as com-
  missioners for a term corresponding to the unexpired portion
  of their tenure as members of the Port Authority. In addition,
  the Director of Finance and Secretary of Agriculture and
  Services, or their designated representatives, shall be ex officio
  members of the commission. Persons appointed to the Port
  Commission shall be subject to recall, suspension and removal
  in the same manner as an elected official. The compensation of
  each member of said Port Commission shall be twelve hundred
  dollars ($1,200) per year. Ex officio members of the commis-
  sion shall serve as such without compensation.
     Section 48.3. The Port Commission shall have all the
  powers and duties given to boards and commissions by Section
  19 of the charter and shall have the power to establish such
  departments and bureaus as may be necessary or convenient
  for the conduct of its affairs. Subject to the terms and con-
  ditions of the transfer and any supplemental agreements re-
  lating thereto, the Port Commission shall have the control and
  management of all real and personal property transferred
  under the Statutes 1968, Ch. 1333, or otherwise acquired or
 purchased with funds under its control or acquired or pur-
 chased by it within the scope of its authority, or otherwise
 placed under its management, supervision and control, the
 property under the control and management of the commission
 shall be known as the Port Area. The Port Commission shall
 have the power and duty to use, conduct, operate, maintain,
 manage, regulate, and control the Port Area of San Francisco
 and to do all things it deems necessary in connection with the
use, conduct, operation, management, maintenance, regulation,
 improvement and control of said Port Area, or which may
further the interests of the Port in world trade, including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the exclusive
power to perform or accomplish the following:
    1. The improvement, operation and conduct of the harbor,
and any and all improvements or facilities located thereon;
    2. The construction, reconstruction, repair, operation and
use of all works, buildings, facilities, utilities, structures and
appliances incidental, necessary or convenient for the pro-
motion and accommodation of commerce and navigation, or
located within the Port Area;
    3. The establishment, improvement and conduct of railroad
and aviation facilities and all works, buildings, facilities, utili-
ties, structures and appliances incidental, necessary or con-
venient for the promotion and conduct of air commerce and
navigation and railroad transportation;
                     1969
Res. Ch. 10]                REGULAR SESSION                    3477

   4. The construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance and
operation of public buildings, parks, playgrounds, public edu-
cational and recreation facilities and all works, buildings, fa-
cilities, structures and appliances incidental, necessary or
convenient for the promotion and accommodation of any such
uses;
   5. The preservation or restoration of marine resources con-
sistent with the primary mission of the harbor of San Fran-
cisco ;
   6. The grant of franchises thereof for limited periods not
exceeding 66 years for wharves and other public uses and pur-
poses and the lease of said lands, facilities, or any part thereof
for limited periods not exceeding 66 years, and the collection
and retention of rents and other revenues from such leases,
franchises, permits, licenses, and privileges. Such lease or
leases, franchises, permits, licenses, and privileges shall be for
purposes consistent with the trusts upon which the lands are
held by the state and with the requirements of commerce and
navigation, or if the Port Commission of the City and County
of San Francisco determines that any portion of the trans-
ferred lands is not required for the foregoing uses described
in this section, such lease or leases, franchises, permits, licenses,
and privileges, may be for the purposes of such development
and use as the commission finds will yield maximum profits
to be used by the commission in the furtherance of commerce
and navigation;
   7. Leases and franchises granted or made by the Port Com-
mission shall be administered exclusively by the operating
forces of the Port Commission;
   8. The power to nominate for appointment a port director
who shall be the chief executive of the Port Commission and
who shall have the management of all the affairs and activities
placed under the jurisdiction of the commission. The mayor
shall appoint a port director. He shall devote his entire time
to the duties of his office and his salary shall be fixed by the
commission. He shall hold his office at the pleasure of the com-
mission and shall have the management of said harbor and
of all of the facilities and equipment thereof and of all bu-
reaus and departments established for the operation of said
harbor or for the operation of any equipment or facility
thereof. Subject to the approval of the commission he shall
appoint and remove any and all heads of departments or
bureaus, who may not be subject to the civil service provisions
of the charter. He shall possess the necessary administrative,
executive and technical qualifications necessary to enable him
to perform the duties of his office. His compensation shall not
exceed prevailing salaries paid those holding similar positions
in comparable maritime employment. The commission may
confer on him such additional powers and authority as it
may see fit;
   9. To regulate the berthing, anchoring, towing, loading and
unloading and mooring of vessels within the port;
3478               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. Oh. 10

    10. To issue receipts, negotiable or otherwise, for property
 or merchandise in its charge or possession;
    11. To fix all rates, dockage, rentals, tolls, wharfage, and
 charges, for the use and occupation of the public facilities or
 appliances of the port, and for services rendered by the Port
 Commission, and to provide for the collection thereof;
    12. To enter into contracts, agreements, or stipulations ger-
 mane to the scope of its powers and duties;
    13. To give such bonds or assurances as may be required by
 the United States in the operations permitted hereunder;
    14. To provide and equip offices within or without the Port,
 within other states, or in foreign countries, and through such
 employees and agencies as it may deem expedient;
    15. To contract for and operate foreign trade zones within
 the Port Area or auxiliary to the Port Area, or such zones or
 sub-zones as have been operated by the San Francisco Port
 Authority. Agreement may be made with the Public Utilities
 Commission for operation of future zones or sub-zones in
 other areas;
    16. Members and officers of the Port Commission shall be
 exempt from the provisions of the City Charter relating to
 absences from the State, but shall advise the Mayor and the
Board of Supervisors in advance of such absences;
    17. May promote the maritime and commercial interests of
the harbor by advertising its advantages and facilities and by
the solicitation of business. The advertising and solicitation may
be conducted within or without this State and through such
agencies, mediums, employees and agents as are determined
by the Commission. The Commission may, in its discretion,
publish and distribute a magazine, pamphlets, booklets and
other printed and advertising matter for the purpose of de-
veloping traffic and promoting and maintaining the com-
merce and prestige of the port, and may use any moneys of
the Harbor Fund for the special purposes authorized by this
provision. Members and employees of the commission in at-
tending conventions of port authorities and meetings of trans-
portation clubs, trade associations and business organizations
that may advance the interests of the port shall be allowed
their actual necessary expenses in the performance of such
services as may from time to time be deemed desirable by the
commission and shall be allowed hospitality expenses neces-
sarily incurred in furthering the interests of the P o r t ;
   18. To issue revenue bonds in the same manner and to the
same extent as is provided for by the San Francisco Harbor
Eevenue Bond Act of 1951, enacted by Stats. 1951, Chapter
1712, page 4020, of the Statutes of California. All of the pro-
visions of said Act are by this reference incorporated in and
made a part of this charter, except that where the term
"Board of State Harbor Commissioners" is used it shall be
deemed to mean the " P o r t Commission," and where the term
" S a n Francisco Harbor Bond Finance B o a r d " or "Bond Fi-
                     1969
Bes. Ch. 10]                REGULAR SESSION                   3479

 nance B o a r d " is vised it shall be deemed to mean "Board of
 Supervisors of the City and County of San Francisco," and
 where the term "Attorney General of the State of California"
 is used it shall be deemed to mean " C i t y Attorney," and
 where the term "State Treasurer" is used it shall be deemed
 to mean ' ' City Treasurer,'' and where the term ' ' State Con-
 troller" is used it shall be deemed to mean " C i t y Controller."
 The revenue bonds issued hereunder shall be known as ' ' Reve-
 nue Bonds of the Port Commission of San Francisco."
   19. To expend all funds necessary to the carrying out of the
 powers and duties herein expressed;
   20. This section does hereby vest in the Port Commission all
of the powers set forth in section 3 and section 5 of the Stat-
utes of 1968, Chapter 1333, which provisions are hereby in-
 corporated in the charter by this reference.
   The city attorney shall be the legal adviser of the commis-
sion, and may, with the approval of the commission, com-
promise, settle or dismiss any litigation or legal proceeding,
pending for or on behalf of the commission relative to any
matter under its jurisdiction, and said commission may with
the consent of the mayor and the approval of the city attorney
appoint special counsel.
   Section 48.4. All employees of the Port Authority who, at
the time of transfer provided for herein shall go into effect,
are members of the Public Employees' Retirement System of
the State of California shall continue to be members of said
Public Employees' Retirement System, with all the rights,
privileges and benefits of said system and they shall not be
members of the San Francisco City and County Employees'
Retirement System; and, notwithstanding any other provisions
of this charter, the city and county shall perform all acts
necessary to continue the membership of such employees in
said Public Employees' Retirement System.
   All employees of the Port Authority who, at the time the
transfer provided for herein shall go into effect, are covered
under the provisions of a retirement program other than the
Public Employees' Retirement System of the State of Cali-
fornia shall thereafter continue to be covered under such re-
tirement program and they shall not be members of the San
Francisco City and County Employees' Retirement System;
and, notwithstanding any other provisions of this charter, the
city and county shall perform all acts necessary to continue
the coverage of such employees under such retirement pro-
gram.
   Persons who, after the transfer provided for herein has gone
into effect, become employees of the city and county in posi-
tions related to the operation of the State Belt Railroad and
who become covered under the provisions of the Railroad Re-
tirement Act by virtue of their employment in such positions
shall not be members of the San Francisco City and County
Employees' Retirement System.
3480              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. Ch. 10

   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this charter, the
city and county shall perform all acts necessary to protect
the employment rights of employees of the Port Authority as
specified in Section 20 of Statutes 1968, ch. 1333.
   In the matter of the control and operation of the harbor
and of the facilities and equipment thereof, including the mat-
ter of budgets and appropriations, the Port Commission shall
be subject to the budgetary and fiscal procedure elsewhere
provided for in this charter.
   The revenues of said harbor and of all properties and facili-
ties incident thereto, or used in connection therewith, shall
be deposited in a separate fund in the treasury of the city
and county and a harbor trust fund or trust funds shall be
established by the city and county and the city and county
shall deposit in the fund or funds all monies received attrib-
utable to facilities on the transferred lands in the harbor.
   Subject to the terms and conditions of Statutes 1968, ch.
1333, appropriations from such funds shall be made for the
following purposes and in the order named, viz.:
   (a) For the payment of operating expenses, pension
charges and proportionate payments to such compensation and
other insurance and accident reserve funds as the commission
may establish or the Board of Supervisors may require;
   (b) For payment of the principal and interest of any obli-
gations of the State of California and assumed or agreed to
be paid by the City and County of San Francisco;
   (c) For repairs and maintenance of the properties of said
harbor or used in connection with the operation thereof;
   (d) For the payment of the principal and interest on any
bonds issued by the City and County of San Francisco for
the acquisition, construction, repair or extension of said harbor
or of any of the facilities used in connection therewith;
   (e) An amount which shall be sufficient to meet the cost of
reconstruction and replacement made necessary by the physical
and functional depreciation of any of the properties or equip-
ment of said harbor as the same shall occur;
    (f) To pay for extensions and betterments to said harbor
or to the equipment and facilities thereof;
    (g) To establish a surplus or sinking fund for the improve-
ment or extension of the harbor or any facility used in con-
nection therewith.
                          Proposition D
   Describing and setting forth a proposal to the qualified
electors of the City and County of San Francisco to amend
the Charter of said city and county by adding Section 69.2
thereto relating to the incurring of bonded indebtedness for
capital improvement projects.
   The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San
Francisco hereby submits to the qualified electors of said city
and county at an election to be held therein on November 5,
                    1969
Res. Ch. 10]               REGULAR SESSION                 3481

1968, a proposal to amend the charter of said city and county
by adding Section 69.2 thereto reading as follows:
          Capital Improvement Projects—Bond Issues
    Section 69.2. Whenever the capital improvement program
 recommended by the city planning commission pursuant to
 Section 69.1 contains a number of capital improvement proj-
 ects with estimated costs of less than $2,000,000 each and the
 board of supervisors by resolution adopted by two-thirds vote
 of all its members determines that public interest and neces-
 sity require the acquisition, construction or completion of
 more than one of such capital improvement projects to be
 specified in said resolution, but that the total estimated cost
 of said improvements will be too great to be paid out of the
 ordinary annual income and revenue of the city and county,
 and will require an expenditure greater than the amount
 allowed therefor by the annual tax levy and will require the
 incurring of a bonded debt, the board at any subsequent
meeting may by a two-thirds vote of all its members pass an
 ordinance calling an election and ordering submission to the
 qualified voters of the city and county the single proposition
 of incurring a bonded indebtedness for the group of public
improvements specified in said resolution. Such election shall
 be called and held in the same manner as other bond elec-
 tions of the city and county. If the proposition receives the
assent of two-thirds of the qualified electors voting in favor
thereof, the bonded indebtedness may then be incurred for
said group of public improvements. No proposition or propo-
sitions for incurring a bonded indebtedness shall be sub-
mitted to the voters at any one election pursuant to the pro-
visions of this section where the total estimated cost of the
group or groups of public improvements involved exceeds
 the sum of $6,000,000.
    The proceeds of the sale of bonds authorized at any such
election (except premium and accrued interest received on the
sale thereof) shall be applied exclusively for said group of
public improvements, but in such amounts applicable to each
thereof as the board of supervisors may from time to time
determine, provided that as nearly as practicable each capital
improvement project comprising a part of said group of pub-
lic improvements shall be acquired, constructed and completed
to the extent of funds then available therefor, which may be
more or less than the original estimated cost of any capital
improvement project comprised within said group of public
improvements.
    The provisions of the Municipal Bond Act of 1901, as
amended, presently codified as Article 1, Chapter 4, Division
4, Title 4, of the Government Code of the State of California
authorizing the incurring and establishing the procedure for
the creation of bonded indebtedness by cities shall, except as
otherwise provided herein, be applicable to the creation of
the bonded indebtedness authorized by this section.
3482              STATUTES Otf CALIFORNIA           r j j e g Oh. 10

                         Proposition E
   Describing and setting forth a proposal to the qualified
electors of the City and County of San Francisco to amend
the charter of said city and countv by amending Sections 49,
159, 160, 164.1, 165.2, 165.6, 168.1.10 and 171.1.10 thereof, re-
lating to the Retirement System.
   The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San
Francisco hereby submits to the qualified electors of said
city and county at an election to be held therein on November
5,1968, a proposal to amend the charter of said city and county
by amending Sections 49, 159, 160, 164.1, 165.2, 168.1.10 and
171.1.10 thereof to read as follows:

          Appointments and Nominations by Mayor
  Section 49. The mayor shall nominate members of the
board of education for confirmation by the voters, and shall
appoint three members of the retirement board, and shall also
appoint members of the public utilities, city planning and civil
service commissions, each of which said boards or commissions
to have the membership, terms of members, and powers and
duties as are provided in this charter.

                       Retirement Board
   Section 159. The retirement system shall be managed by
a retirement board, which is hereby created, and which shall
be the successor and have the powers and duties of the board
of administration, the board of trustees of the police relief
and pension fund and the board of fire pension fund com-
missioners. The retirement board shall consist of the presi-
dent of the board of supervisors, three members to be ap-
pointed by the mayor, and three members elected from the
active members, who shall not include retired persons of the
retirement system. The members appointed by the mayor shall
either hold a degree of doctor of medicine, or shall be experi-
enced in life insurance, actuarial science, employee pension
planning, or investment portfolio management, and shall be
appointed by the mayor from among three persons whose names
shall have been submitted to him for each such appointment
by a committee consisting of two members each of the San
Francisco Medical Society, Bar Association of San Fran-
cisco, San Francisco Real Estate Board and the Greater San
Francisco Chamber of Commerce; provided, however, that
there shall not be, at any one time, more than one appointed
member who holds a degree of doctor of medicine. The term
of office of the six members, other than the president of the
board of supervisors, shall be five years, and the terms pres-
ently in effect for appointed and elected members shall not
be changed by this amendment. The city attorney shall cease
to be a member of said retirement board on the effective date
of this amendment and the mayor shall thereupon appoint a
Ees. Ch. 10]          " 6 9 REGULAR SESSION                3483

member in accordance with the procedure established in this
section, said member's term to expire five years from the
effective date of this amendment. The members of the retire-
ment board shall serve without compensation. Subject to the
civil service provisions of this charter, the retirement board
shall appoint a secretary-general manager, provided, however,
that any person who has performed the duties of secretary-
general manager continuously for one year prior to the date
of approval of this amendment by the electorate and who on
said date shall be performing said duties, is hereby confirmed
in said position and thereafter shall hold the same pursuant
to said civil service provisions of this Charter. The board
shall appoint an actuary, who shall hold office at its pleasure,
and the board shall employ a consulting actuary. The secretary-
general manager or actuary shall have the power to administer
oaths and affirmations in all matters pertaining to the busi-
ness of the retirement system.
   The retirement board shall be the sole authority and judge,
under such general ordinances as may be adopted by the su-
pervisors, as to the conditions under which members may re-
ceive and may continue to receive benefits of any sort under
the retirement system, and shall have exclusive control of the
administration and investment of such fund or funds as may
be established, provided that all investments shall be of the
character legal for insurance companies in California.

               Actuarial Tables, Rates and Valuations
  Section 160. The mortality, service and other tables and
the rates of contributions for members as recommended by
the actuary and the valuations determined by him and ap-
proved by the retirement board shall be conclusive and final,
and the retirement system shall be based thereon. The total
amount, as determined by the actuary and approved by the
board, of the contributions required during any fiscal year
of the city and county under the retirement system shall be
paid into the retirement system by the city and county during
such year. Liabilities accruing under the retirement system
because of service rendered to the city and county by persons
prior to the date their respective classes become eligible for
membership in the system, and administrative costs under
the system, shall be met by contributions to the retirement
system by the city and county, in addition to any amounts
contributed to meet liabilities accruing because of service ren-
dered by such persons after becoming members of the system,
provided that such prior service liabilities may be met by
annual appropriations instead of by one appropriation for the
total amount of the liabilities; and provided further, that
such appropriation for any one year shall not be less than
the amount disbursed during that year on account of prior
service. All expenses in connection with the investment of such
fund or funds as may be established, including but not limited
3484              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA            [Ees. Ch. 10

to travel and transportation costs, investment seminar expenses,
postage, insurance, telephone, and subscriptions to investment
publications, shall be paid from the accumulated contributions
of the city and county.
   Contributions to the retirement system required of the city
and county shall be charged by the controller against the gen-
eral fund or the school, utility, bond or other special fund
under which the service was rendered, on account of which
the contribution is required; provided that contributions re-
quired on account of service rendered by any person prior to
becoming a member of the system, under a temporary fund,
such as bond or county roads funds, or a fund then no longer
existing, may be charged against the general fund, and pro-
vided further, that any contributions required on account of
persons receiving benefits under subdivision (c) of section 165,
shall be charged against the general fund.
   Section 164.1 (A) Each retirement or death allowance
which is not subject to change when the salary rate of any
member is changed and which is payable to or on account of
any member who has retired or died prior to July 1, 1967,
except such allowances payable to or on account of persons
who retired or died prior to July 1, 1947 as members under
Section 165, but including death allowances payable under
Section 168.3 which are not subject to change when the salary
rate of any member is changed, shall be increased for time
on and after the effective date of this section, hereby desig-
nated as the first day of the month next following its rati-
fication by the State legislature, by the percentage set forth
in the following table opposite the fiscal year in which said
allowance became effective, said percentage to be applied to
the allowance payable to the individual who was receiving the
allowance on the effective date of this section (a) exclusive
of the annuity provided by additional contributions and (b)
prior to reduction pursuant to subsection (A) of Section 165.6:

  Fiscal year in which
  allowance became effective                      Percentage
  All years prior to July 1, 1959                    16%
  July 1, 1959 to June 30, 1960                      14%
  July 1, 1960 to June 30, 1961                      12%
  July 1, 1961 to June 30, 1962                     10%
  July 1, 1962 to June 30, 1963
  July 1, 1963 to June 30, 1964                       6%
  July 1, 1964 to June 30, 1965
  July 1, 1965 to June 30, 1966
  July 1, 1966 to June 30, 1967                       1%
   (1) Funds necessary for the payment of such increases in
allowances payable to or on account of members who retired
or died as members under Charter Sections 165 or 165.2 shall
be provided from the City's accumulated contributions held
                   196
ReS. Ch. 10]             9 REGULAR SESSION                3485

by the system on account of miscellaneous members under
Section 165.2.
    (2) Funds necessary for the payment of such increases in
allowances to or on account of members who retired or died
as members under Charter Sections 168 or 168.1 shall be
provided from the City's accumulated contributions held by
the system on account of police members under Section 168.1.
    (3) Funds necessary for the payment of such increases in
allowances to or on account of members who retired or died
as members under Charter Sections 171 or 171.1 shall be
provided from the City's accumulated contributions held by
the system on account of fire members under Section 171.1.
   The necessary funds shall be transferred on the effective
date of this section from said accumulated contributions to
the accumulated contributions held by the system to meet the
obligations of the city and county on account of benefits that
have been granted and which are based on service rendered
as members. The contribution being required of the city and
county currently, as percentages of salaries of persons who
are members under Sections 165.2, 168.1 and 171.1 shall be
increased to percentages determined by the actuary as neces-
sary to replace the accumulated contributions so transferred.
    (B) (1) The retirement board shall determine, prior to
April 1 of each year, the percentage of increase or decrease
in the cost of living during the preceding calendar year or
years, as shown by the then current Consumer Price Index,
All Items, San Francisco (1957-59 = 100), issued by the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics and published in the Monthly
Labor Review or a successor publication. The cost of living
adjustments as hereinafter provided shall be based on the
percentage of such increase or decrease.
   (2) Notwithstanding any other charter or ordinance pro-
vision governing the retirement system, every retirement or
death allowance payable to or on account of any member who
retires or dies as a member of the system or who has retired
or died as such a member, except allowances subject to change
when the salary rate of any member is changed, shall be in-
creased or decreased as of July 1, 1969, and on July 1 of
each succeeding year, subject to the provisions of this sub-
section (B), by a percentage of the allowance established on
the effective date of this section after any increase under
subsection (A) of this section or on the effective date of such
allowance, whichever is later, as payable to the individual who
is receiving the allowance on the date of any such adjustment
(a) exclusive of the annuity provided by additional contri-
butions, and (b) prior to modification pursuant to subsection
( F ) of Section 165.6. On July 1, 1969 the percentage of
increase in each such allowance shall be the percentage which
is determined by the retirement board to approximate to the
nearest one per cent, the percentage of increase in the cost
of living during the preceding calendar year. On July 1,
1970 and on July 1 of each succeeding year, the percentage
§486               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. Oh. 10

 of increase or decrease in each such allowance shall be the
 percentage which is determined by the retirement board to
 approximate to the nearest one per cent of increase or de-
 crease in the cost of living in the calendar year or years since
 January 1, 1969 or since January 1 of the year in which the
 last such cost of living adjustment in allowances was made,
 whichever is later. Any such allowance shall be so adjusted
 only if it was in effect for at least one year prior to the date
 of such adjustment. Such adjustment in any year shall not
 exceed two percent of such allowance; provided, however,
 that no allowance shall be reduced below the amount being
 received by the member or his beneficiary on the effective
 date of this section or on the effective date he began to receive
 the allowance, whichever is later.
    (3) Any such increases in allowances shall be paid from
 funds which shall be allocated for that purpose by the re-
 tirement board from such earnings on investments not other-
 wise allocated and after crediting of regular interest to ac-
 cumulated contributions as are in excess of two per cent of
 the assets of the retirement system at the close of each fiscal
 year.
    (4) Any such increases in allowances which are not funded
by such allocation of such earnings, shall be funded by con-
tributions of members under Sections 165, 165.2, 168.1 and
 171.1 and by contributions of the city, which shall be at rates
which are in addition to the rates of contribution otherwise
provided by charter or ordinance, provided that a member's
rate of contribution shall not exceed one-half of one per cent
 of his monthly compensation. The contributions made under
this section by any member shall be credited together with
regular interest thereon to his individual account and shall be
subject to the same charter and ordinance provisions relating
to accumulated contributions of the member, including with-
drawal and death benefits other than death allowances; pro-
vided, however, that upon his retirement or death, such accu-
mulated contributions and interest shall not be applied to
provide a part of the retirement benefits payable to him or
the death allowance benefits payable on account of his death
otherwise provided by charter or ordinance, but instead shall
be held, together with the accumulated contributions made by
the city pursuant to this subsection (B), with interest thereon,
to provide the benefits under this subsection (B). Whenever
such accumulated contributions of a member with interest
have been paid to him on account of his termination of service
or to his beneficiary or estate as a part of his death benefits,
as provided by charter or ordinance, an amount equal to the
amount of contributions and interest so paid shall be applied
to reduce the contributions by the city then currently payable
under this section. If a member, upon his reentry into member-
ship after the withdrawal of his accumulated contributions,
shall redeposit the accumulated contributions withdrawn with
                    1969
Res. Ch. 10]               REGULAR SESSION                  3487
interest, as otherwise provided by the charter or ordinance, he
shall redeposit the accumulated contributions made under this
section with interest in the same manner and under the same
conditions as the redeposit of his other accumulated contribu-
tions, and an amount equal to the amount of such redeposit of
accumulated contributions made under this section with in-
terest, shall become payable forthwith by the city to be in-
cluded in the city's contributions under this section.
   (5) The rates of contribution of members and the city, as
provided herein, shall be fixed by the retirement board from
time to time as it determines necessary.
       Retirement—Miscellaneous Officers and Employees
                    On and After July 1,1947
   Section 165.2. Miscellaneous officers and employees, as de-
fined in this section, who are members of the retirement system
under this section of the charter on the effective date of this
amendment, hereby designated as the first day of the month
next following its ratification by the State Legislature, and
persons who become miscellaneous officers and employees after
said effective date, shall be members of the retirement system,
subject to the following provisions of this section, in addition
to the provisions contained in sections 158 to 161, both in-
clusive, of this charter notwithstanding the provisions of any
other section of the charter, provided that the retirement
system shall be applied to persons employed on a part-time,
temporary or substitute basis only as the board of supervisors
shall determine by ordinance enacted by three-fourths vote of
all members of the board. Miscellaneous officers and employees
of the said departments who are members of the retirement
system under section 165 of the charter on said effective date
shall continue to be members of the system under section 165
and shall not be subject to any of the provisions of this section,
except as specifically provided in this section.
   (A) The following words and phrases as used in this sec-
tion unless a different meaning is plainly required by the
context, shall have the following meaning:
   "Retirement allowance," or "allowance," shall mean equal
monthly payments, beginning to accrue upon the date of re-
tirement, and continuing for life unless a different term of
payment is definitely provided by the context.
   "Compensation," as distinguished from benefits under the
workmen's compensation laws of the State of California shall
mean all remuneration whether in cash or by other allowances
made by the city and county, for service qualifying for credit
under this section.
   "Compensation earnable" shall mean the compensation as
determined by the retirement board, which would have been
earned by the member had he worked, throughout the period
under consideration, the average number of days ordinarily
worked by persons in the same grade or class of positions as
the positions held by him during such period and at the rate
   110—1954
3488               STATUTES OF CALIPORNIA              [Res. Ch. 10

of pay attached to such positions, it being assumed that during
any absence, he was in the position held by him at the begin-
ning of the absence, and that prior to entering city service he
was in the position first held by him in city-service.
   "Benefit" shall include "allowance," "retirement allow-
ance, ' ' and ' ' death benefit.''
   "Average final compensation" shall mean the average
monthly compensation earned by a member during any five
consecutive years of credited service in the retirement system
in which his average final compensation is the highest, unless
the board of supervisors shall otherwise provide by ordinance
enacted by three-fourths vote of all members of the board.
   For the purposes of the retirement system and of this sec-
tion, the terms "miscellaneous officer or employee," or "mem-
ber, '' as used in this section shall mean any officer or employee
who is not a member of the fire or police departments as de-
fined in the charter for the purpose of the retirement system,
under section 165 of the charter.
   "Retirement system" or " s y s t e m " shall mean San Fran-
cisco City and County Employees' Retirement System as
created in section 158 of the charter.
   "Retirement board" shall mean "retirement board" as cre-
ated in section 159 of the charter.
   " C h a r t e r " shall mean the charter of the City and County
of San Francisco.
   Words used in the masculine gender shall include the femi-
nine and neuter genders, and singular numbers shall include
the plural and the plural the singular.
   " I n t e r e s t " shall mean interest at the rate adopted by the
retirement board.
   (B) Any member who completes at least twenty years of
service in the aggregate credited in the retirement system and
attains the age of fifty-five years, or at least ten years of serv-
ice in the aggregate credited in the retirement system, and
attains the age of sixty years, said service to be computed un-
der subsection ( 6 ) hereof, may retire for service at his op-
tion. Members shall be retired on the first day of the month
next following the attainment by them of the age of sixty-five
years. A member retired after reaching the age of sixty years
shall receive a service retirement allowance at the rate of If
per cent of said average final compensation for each year of
service; provided, however, that upon the compulsory retire-
ment of a member upon his attainment of the age of 65 years,
if the allowance available to such member pursuant to the pro-
visions of subsection (F) of this section shall be greater in
amount than the service retirement allowance otherwise pay-
able to such member under this subsection (B), then such
member shall receive as his service retirement allowance, in
lieu of the allowance otherwise payable under this subsection
 (B), an allowance computed in accordance with the formula
provided in said subsection ( F ) . The service retirement al-
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 10]               REGULAR SESSION                   3489

lowance of any member retiring prior to attaining the age of
sixty years, after rendering twenty years or more of such serv-
ice and having attained the age of fifty-five years, computed
under subsection (G), shall be such as can be provided at the
age of retirement by the actuarial value, at the age of retire-
ment, of the retirement allowance to which he would be en-
titled upon retirement at age sixty and with the service cred-
ited at the date of actual retirement.
    Before the first payment of a retirement allowance is made,
a member retired under this subsection or subsection (C) of
this section, may elect to receive the actuarial equivalent of his
allowance, partly in an allowance to be received by him
throughout his life, and partly in other benefits payable after
his death to another person or persons, provided that such
election shall be subject to all the conditions prescribed by the
board of supervisors to govern similar elections by other mem-
bers of the retirement system, including the character and
amount of such other benefits; provided, however, that at any
time within 30 days after the date on which his compulsory
retirement would otherwise have become effective, a member
who has attained the age of 65 years may elect, without right
of revocation, to withdraw his accumulated contributions, said
 election to be exercised in writing on a form furnished by the
retirement system and filed at the office of said system and a
member so electing shall be considered as having terminated
 his membership in said system on the date immediately pre-
 ceding the date on which his compulsory retirement would
 otherwise have become effective and he shall be paid forthwith
 his accumulated contributions, with interest credited thereon.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 165.6 of this char-
 ter, the portion of service retirement allowance provided by
 the city and county's contributions shall be not less than $100
 per month upon retirement after thirty years of service and
 after attaining the age of sixty years, and provided further
 that as to any member with fifteen years or more of service
 at the compulsory retirement age of sixty-five, the portion of
 the service retirement allowance provided by the city and
 county's contribution shall be such that the total retirement
 allowance shall not be less than $100 per month. I n the calcu-
 lations under this subsection of the retirement allowance of a
 member having credit for service in a position in the evening
 schools and service in any other position, separate retirement
  allowances shall be calculated, in the manner prescribed for
  each class of service, the average final compensation in each
 case being that for the respective class of service; provided that
  the aggregate retirement allowance shall be taken into account
  in applying the provisions of this subsection providing for a
  minimum retirement allowance. Part time service and compen-
  sation shall be reduced to full time service and compensation
  in the manner prescribed by the board of supervisors, and
3490              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [EeS. Ch. 10

when so reduced shall be applied on full time service and com-
pensation in the calculation of retirement allowances.
    (C) Any member who becomes incapacitated for perform-
ance of duty because of disability determined by the retire-
ment board to be of extended and uncertain duration, and
who shall have completed at least ten years of service credited
in the retirement system in the aggregate, computed as pro-
vided in subsection (G) hereof, shall be retired upon an allow-
ance of one and one-half per cent of the average final compen-
sation of said member, as defined in subsection (A) hereof for
each year of credited service, if such retirement allowance
exceeds one-third (-J) of his average final compensation; other-
wise one and one-half (1-J) per cent of his average final com-
pensation multiplied by the number of years of city-service
which would be credited to him were such city-service to con-
tinue until attainment by him of age sixty, but such retirement
allowance shall not exceed one-third (4) of such average final
compensation. In the calculation under this subsection of the
retirement allowance of a member having credit for service in
a position in the evening schools and service in any other posi-
tion, separate retirement allowances shall be calculated, in the
manner prescribed, for each class of service, the average final
compensation in each case being that for the respective class of
service; provided that the average final compensation upon
which the minimum total retirement allowance is calculated in
such case shall be based on the compensation earnable by the
member in the classes of service rendered by him during the
five (5) years immediately preceding his retirement. Part time
service and compensation shall be reduced to full time service
and compensation in the manner prescribed by the board of
supervisors, and when so reduced shall be applied as full time
service and compensation in the calculation of retirement al-
lowances. The question of retiring a member under this subsec-
 tion may be brought before the retirement board on said
board's own motion, by recommendation of any commission or
board, or by said member or his guardian. If his disability
 shall cease, his retirement allowance shall cease, and he shall
be restored to service in the position or classification he occu-
 pied at the time of his retirement.
    (D) No modification of benefits provided in this section
shall be made because of any amounts payable to or on ac-
 count of any member under workmen's compensation laws of
the State of California.
     (E) If a member shall die, before his retirement, regard-
 less of cause:
     (1) If no benefit is payable under subdivision (2) of this
 subsection (B), a death benefit shall be paid to his estate or
 designated beneficiary consisting of the compensation earn-
 able by him during the six months immediately preceding
 death, plus his contributions and interest credited thereon.
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 10]               RBGULAE SESSION                   3491

    (2) If, at the date of his death, he was qualified for service
retirement by reason of service and age under the provisions
 of subsection (B) of this section, and he has designated as
beneficiary his surviving spouse, who was married to him for
at least one full year immediately prior to the date of his
death, one-half of the retirement allowance to which the mem-
ber would have been entitled if he had retired for service on
the date of his death shall be paid to such surviving spouse
who was his designated beneficiary at the date of his death,
until such spouse's death or remarriage, or if there be no sur-
viving spouse, to the unmarried child or children of such
member under the age of eighteen years, collectively, until
every such child dies, marries or attains the age of eighteen
years, provided that no child shall receive any allowance after
marrying or attaining the age of eighteen years. If, at the
death of such surviving spouse, who was receiving an allow-
ance under this subdivision (2), there be one or more un-
married children of such member under the age of eighteen
years, such allowance shall continue to such child or children,
collectively, until every such child dies, marries or attains the
age of eighteen years, provided that no child shall receive
any allowance after marrying or attaining the age of eighteen
years. If the total of the payments of allowance made pur-
suant to this subdivision (2) is less than the benefit which,
was otherwise payable under subdivision (1) of this subsec-
tion, the amount of said benefit payable under subdivision (1)
less an amount equal to the total of the payments of allowance
made pursuant to this subdivision (2) shall be paid in a lump
sum as follows:
   (a) If the person last entitled to said allowance is the re-
married surviving spouse of such member, to such spouse.
   (b) Otherwise, to the surviving children of the member,
share and snare alike, or if there are no such children, to the
estate of the person last entitled to said allowance.
   The surviving spouse may elect, on a form provided by the
retirement system and filed in the office of the retirement
system before the first payment of the allowance provided
herein, to receive the benefit provided in subdivision (1) of
this subsection in lieu of the allowance which otherwise would
be payable under the provisions of this subdivision. If a sur-
viving spouse, who was entitled to make the election herein
provided, shall die before or after making such election but
before receiving any payment pursuant to such election, then
the legally appointed guardian of the unmarried children of
the member under the age of eighteen years may make the
election herein provided before any benefit has been paid under
this subsection ( E ) , for and on behalf of such children if in
his judgment it appears to be in their interest and advantage,
and the election so made shall be binding and conclusive upon
all parties in interest.
3492              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            rites. Ch. 10

   If any person other than such surviving spouse shall have
and be paid a community property interest in any portion of
any benefit provided under this subsection ( E ) , any allowance
payable under this subdivision (2) shall be reduced by the
actuarial equivalent, at the date of the member's death, of
the amount of benefits paid to such other person.
   Upon the death of a member after retirement and regardless
of the cause of death, a death benefit shall be paid to his
estate or designated beneficiary in the manner and subject to
the conditions prescribed by the board of supervisors for the
payment of a similar death benefit upon the death of other
retired members.
    (F) Should any miscellaneous member cease to be employed
as such a member, through any cause other than death or re-
tirement, all of his contributions, with interest credited
thereon, shall be refunded to him subject to the conditions
prescribed by the board of supervisors to cover similar termi-
nations of employment and reemployment with and without
redeposit of withdrawn accumulated contributions of other
members of the retirement system, provided that if such mem-
ber is entitled to be credited with at least ten years of service
or if his accumulated contributions exceed one thousand dol-
lars ($1,000), he shall have the right to elect, without right of
revocation and within 90 days after said termination of serv-
ice, or if the termination was by lay-off, 90 days after the
retirement board determines the termination to be permanent,
whether to allow his accumulated contributions to remain in
the retirement fund and to receive benefits only as provided
in this paragraph. Failure to make such election shall be
deemed an irrevocable election to withdraw his accumulated
contributions. A person who elects to allow his accumulated
contributions to remain in the retirement fund shall be subject
to the same age requirements as apply to other members under
this section for service retirement but he shall not be subject
to a minimum service requirement. Upon the qualification of
such member for retirement by reason of age, he shall be
 entitled to receive a retirement allowance which shall be the
 actuarial equivalent of his accumulated contributions and an
 equal amount of the contributions of the city and county,
plus If per cent of his average final compensation for each
year of service credited to him as rendered prior to his first
membership in the retirement system. Upon the death of such
 member prior to retirement, his contributions with interest
 credited thereon shall be paid to his estate or designated bene-
 ficiary.
    (G) The following time and service shall be included in
 the computation of the service to be credited to a member for
 the purpose of determining whether such member qualifies for
 retirement and calculating benefits :
    (1) Time during which said member is a member of the
 retirement system and during and for which said member is
                    1969
Res. Ch. 10]               REGULAB SESSION                 3493

entitled to receive compensation because of services as a mis-
cellaneous officer or employee.
   (2) Service in the fire and police departments which is not
credited as service of a member under this section shall count
under this section upon transfer of a member of either of
such departments to employment entitling him to membership
in the retirement system under this section, provided that the
accumulated contribution standing to the credit of such mem-
ber shall be adjusted by refund to the member or by payment
of the member to bring the account at the time of such trans-
fer to the amount which would have been credited to it had
the member been a miscellaneous employee throughout the
period of his service in either of such departments at the
compensation he received in such departments.
   (3) Time during which said member is absent from a status
included in paragraphs (1) or (2) nest preceding which is
not deemed absence from service under the provisions of sec-
tion 161 of the charter and for which such member is entitled
to receive credit as service for the city and county by virtue
of contributions made in accordance with the provisions of
such section.
   (4) Prior service determined and credited as prescribed by
the board of supervisors for persons who are members under
section 165.
   (5) The board of supervisors, by ordinance enacted by a
three-fourths vote of its members, may provide for the credit-
ing as service under the retirement system of service, other
than military service, rendered as an employee of the federal
government and service rendered as an employee of the State
of California or any public entity or public agency in the State
of California. Said ordinance shall provide that all contribu-
tions required as the result of the crediting of such service
shall be made by the member and that no contributions therefor
shall be required of the city and county.
   (PI) All payments provided under this section shall be
made from funds derived from the following sources, plus
interest earned on said funds:
   (1) The rate of contribution of each member under this
section shall be based on his nearest age at the effective date
of his membership in the retirement system. The normal rate
of contribution of each such member, to be effective from the
effective date of membership under this section, shall be such
as, on the average for such member, will provide, assuming
service without interruption, under subsection (B) of this
section, one-half of that portion of the service retirement al-
lowance to which he would be entitled if retired at age sixty
or higher age after rendering ten years of service for retire-
ment under that subsection. No adjustment shall be included
in said rates because of time during which members have con-
tributed at different rates. Members' rates of contributions
shall be changed only in the manner prescribed by the board
3494              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA            r j j e g Q]j JQ

of supervisors for changing contributions rates of other mem-
bers.
   (2) There shall be deducted from each payment of com-
pensation made to a member under this section, a sum deter-
mined by applying the member's rate of contribution to such
compensation. Amounts which would have been deducted in the
absence of the limit on such deductions according to service
credited, shall be paid to the retirement system following
the removal of such limit, in manners and at times approved
by the retirement board. The sum so deducted shall be paid
forthwith to the retirement system. Said contribution shall
be credited to the individual account of the member from
whose salary it was deducted, and the total of said contribu-
tions, together with interest credited thereon in the same
manner as is prescribed by the board of supervisors for cred-
iting interest to contributions of other members of the retire-
ment system, shall be applied to provide part of the retire-
ment allowance granted to, or allowance granted on account
of said member, under this section or shall be paid to said
member of his estate or beneficiary as provided in subsections
 (E) and (F) of this section, provided that the portion of the
salaries of the teachers as provided in section 165, paragraph
 (a), as a basis for fixing the contributions to be made, and
the benefits to be received, by the teachers under the retire-
ment system shall be determined by the method provided in
section 165, paragraph (a) and shall not be less than eighty
per cent of the total salary received by the teachers, unless
the board of supervisors shall otherwise provide by ordinance
enacted by three-fourths vote of all members of the board.
   (3) Contributions based on time included in paragraphs
(1) and (3) of subsection (G), and deducted prior to the
effective date hereof, from compensation of persons who be-
come members under this section, and standing with interest
thereon, to the credit of such members on the records of the
retirement system on said date, shall continue to be credited
to the individual accounts of said members and shall be com-
bined with and administered in the same manner as the con-
tributions deducted after said date.
   (4) The total contributions, with interest thereon, made
by or charged against the city and county and standing to its
credit, on the effective date hereof, in the accounts of the
retirement system, on account of persons who become mem-
bers under this section, shall be applied to provide the benefits
under this section.
   (5) The city and county shall contribute to the retirement
system such amounts as may be necessary, when added to the
contributions referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this
subsection ( H ) , to provide the benefits payable under this
section. Such contributions of the city and county to provide
the portion of the benefits hereunder which shall be based on
service rendered by each member prior to the date upon which
                    1969
Res. Ch. 10]               REGULAR SESSION                 3495

his rate of contribution is determined in paragraph (1), sub-
section ( H ) , shall not be less during any fiscal year than the
amount of such benefits paid during said year. Such contri-
butions of the city and county to provide the portion of the
benefits hereunder which shall be based on service rendered
by respective members on and after the date stated in the
next preceding sentence, shall be made in annual installments,
and the installment to be paid in any year shall be determined
by the application of a percentage to the total salaries paid
during said year, to persons who are members under this sec-
tion, said percentage to be the ratio of the value of the
effective date hereof, or at the later date of a periodical ac-
tuarial valuation and investigation into the experience under
the system, of the benefits thereafter to be paid under this sec-
tion, from contributions of the city and county, less the
amount of such contributions, and plus accumulated interest
thereon, then held by said system to provide said benefits on
account of service rendered by respective member after the
date stated in the sentence next preceding, to the value at
said respective dates of salaries thereafter payable to said
members. Said values shall be determined by the actuary, who
shall take into account the interest which shall be earned on
said contributions, the compensation experience of members,
and the probabilities of separation by all causes, of members
from service before retirement and of death after retirement.
Said percentage shall be changed only on the basis of said
periodical actuarial valuation and investigation into the ex-
perience under the system. Said actuarial valuation shall be
made every even-numbered year and said investigation into
the experience under the system shall be made every odd-
numbered year.
   (6) To promote the stability of the retirement system
through a joint participation in the result of variations in
the experience under mortality, investment and other contin-
gencies, the contributions of both members and the city and
county held by the system to provide the benefits under this
section, shall be a part of the fund in which all other assets
of said system are included. Nothing in the section shall af-
fect the obligations of the city and county to pay to the
retirement system any amounts which may or shall become
due under the provisions of the charter prior to the effective
date hereof, and which are represented on said effective date,
in the accounts of said system by debits against the city and
county.
   (I) Upon the completion of the years of service set forth
in subsection (B) of this section as requisite to retirement,
a member shall be entitled to retire at any time thereafter in
accordance with the provisions of said subsection (B), and
nothing shall deprive said member of said right.
   (J) No person retired under this section, for service or
disability and entitled to receive a retirement allowance under
3496              STATUTES OF CAtlFoRNIA            [Res. Ch. 10

the retirement system shall serve in any elective or appointive
position in the city and county service, including membership
on boards and commissions, nor shall such persons receive
any payment for service rendered to the city and county after
retirement, provided that service as an election officer or juror
shall not be affected by this section.
    (K) Any section or part of any section in this charter,
insofar as it should conflict with this section, or with any
part thereof, shall be superseded by the contents of this sec-
tion. In the event that any word, phrase, clause or subsection
of this section shall be adjudged unconstitutional, the remain-
der thereof shall remain in full force and effect.
    (L) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (B),
 (C), (F) or (I) of this section, any member convicted of a
crime involving moral turpitude committed in connection with
his duties as an officer or employee of the City and County of
San Francisco, shall, upon his removal from office or employ-
ment pursuant to the provisions of this charter, forfeit all
right to any benefits under the retirement system except re-
fund of his accumulated contributions; provided, however,
that, if such member is qualified for service retirement by
reason of service and age under the provisions of subsection
 (B) of this section, he shall have the right to elect, without
right of revocation and within 90 days after his removal from
office or employment, whether to withdraw all of his accumu-
lated contributions or to receive as his sole benefit under the
retirement system an annuity which shall be the actuarial
equivalent of his accumulated contributions at the time of
such removal from office or employment.
    (M) The amendments of this section contained in the prop-
osition therefor submitted to the electorate on November 5,
1968, shall be effective on the first day of the month next
following ratification by the State Legislature. Said amend-
ments do not and shall not increase any allowance first in
effect prior to the effective date of said amendments, nor shall
they give any person retired prior to said effective date, or
his successors in interest, any claim against the city and county
for any increase in any retirement allowance paid or payable
for time prior to said effective date.

                   Social Security Coverage
   Section 165.6. The board of supervisors may enact, by a
vote of three-fourths of its members, an ordinance or ordi-
nances prescribing the conditions according to which any and
all employees of the San Francisco Unified School District
and employees of the City and County of San Francisco,
other than members of the fire and police department as
defined in section 162, may be covered under the Federal Old-
Age and Survivors Disability Insurance provisions of the
Federal Social Security Act, subject to the provisions of this
section. " C i t y and County" as hereinafter used shall mean
                    1969
Res. Ch. 10]               REGULAR SESSION                 3497
the City and County of San Francisco and the San Fran-
cisco Unified School District.
    (A) Any member of the San Francisco City and County
Employees' Retirement System, hereinafter referred to as the
system, who is or becomes covered by the Federal Old-Age
and Survivors Disability Insurance provisions of the Federal
Social Security Act, hereinafter referred to as the Act, shall
continue to contribute to the system the normal contributions
required of him, except that he shall have the right to reduce
his normal contributions under the system at his option to be
exercised by an election on the system's form, said election to
be effective on the first day of the month next following its
filing in the system's office. Such reduction of normal contri-
butions shall apply only to time during which said member is
covered under the Act, and after the effective date of this
section, hereby fixed as the first day of the month next follow-
ing its ratification by the State Legislature, and the amount of
said reduction, which may be changed from time to time by
said member, in accordance with rules and regulations of the
Retirement Board, shall not be more than the amount of said
member's contribution under the Act.
    Any allowance payable to or on account of such member
by the system shall be reduced on the effective date of said
allowance by the actuarial equivalent on that date of the
normal contributions, including interest to said date, with
which said member would have been but was not credited
under the system because of said reduction in his normal
contributions and because of amounts paid from such mem-
ber's accumulated contributions for the retroactive period
hereinafter provided for, and any continuation of said al-
lowance shall be based on such reduced allowance but said
allowance shall not be affected otherwise by the member's
reduction of his normal contributions. Said member shall
have the right to contribute amounts, which shall be ad-
ministered as additional contributions, to replace all or p a r t
of such reduction in his retirement allowance.
    (B) The reductions in allowances and contributions of
members shall be made as provided in the foregoing para-
graphs notwithstanding any provisions in the charter to the
contrary.
    (C) Every employee covered by the agreement providing
coverage under the Act shall be liable for the employee
contributions required by the Act.
    (D) The effective date of coverage under the Act may be
made retroactive to such date as the board of supervisors may
determine. Contributions required under the Act of each mem-
ber for time included by the retroactive application shall be
paid from such member's accumulated contributions held by
the system on account of his compensation not in excess of
the maximum compensation taxable under this Act for such
retroactive time. If the required contributions under the Act
3498              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 10
exceed the member's accumulated contributions held by the
system so determined, the additional contributions under the
Act equal to the excess shall be paid by the member. Contri-
 butions required under the Act of the employer on account
of such retroactive period shall be paid from funds held by
the system on account of active members and derived from
contributions of the city and county.
    (E) Any member who is covered by section 210(1) of the
Act on the effective date of the agreement between the state
and federal government to extend coverage to the members
of the system under the Act shall not be subject to this
 section unless he elect to be covered in accordance with this
section, such election to be on a form furnished by the system
and to be filed in the office of the system not later than one
hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of such
agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable. Such election
shall fix the status of the member under such coverage as
the same in all respects as if he had not been covered under
section 210(1), except that there shall be no adjustment of
the member's accumulated contributions or of the funds held
by the system, and derived from contributions of the city and
county, on account of social security tax for such retroactive
period.
   Each member who enters the employ of the municipal rail-
way after the effective date of the agreement between the state
and federal government to extend coverage to other members
of the system under the Act shall be covered under the act in
accordance with the terms of this section and the ordinance
or ordinances enacted pursuant thereto.
   (F) Provision shall be made for modification of the mem-
ber's retirement allowance at his option, if he retires before
he attains the minimum age of qualification for his primary
benefit under the Act, in such manner that will make his
increased monthly retirement allowance under the system prior
to attainment of such age equal to the sum of his decreased
monthly allowance after attainment of such age, and his pri-
mary benefit under the Act, upon the basis of an estimated
primary benefit under the Act, subject to the requirement that
the amounts of the increase and decrease in the monthly al-
lowance shall be actuarially equivalent, and that the increase
shall not be modified under an option provided by ordinance.
   (Gr) "Words used in the masculine gender shall include the
feminine and neuter genders, and singular numbers shall in-
clude the plural and the plural the singular.
   (H) The contribution rates of the city and county appli-
cable to various memberships under section 165.2 shall be
adjusted to rates determined by the actuary according to
methods stated in paragraph 5, subsection (H) of section
165.2.
   (I) The board of supervisors shall submit to the eligible
employees for purposes of referendum as defined in the Act
                    1969
Res. Ch. 10]               REGULAR SESSION                3499

the question as to whether they desire coverage under the
Act in accordance with conditions prescribed in this section.
   (J) The powers of the board of supervisors granted in sec-
tion 158 shall include the authority to make such adjust-
ments in the retirement system, by a vote of three-fourths
of its members, as are not made by this section, but as re-
quired because of changes in the Act, to carry out the pur-
poses of this section.
   (K) The amendments of this section contained in the prop-
osition therefor submitted to the electorate on November 5,
1968, shall be effective on the first day of the month next
following ratification by the State Legislature.
   Every retirement allowance payable by the system for time
commencing on the effective date of said amendments to or
on account of any member or retired member covered by the
Act on account of services rendered by him to the city and
county shall be the retirement allowance to which such mem-
ber or retired member is entitled without reduction on account
of such coverage, except as provided in this section. Said
amendments do not and shall not give any member retired
prior to said effective date, or his successors in interest, any
claim against the city and county for any increase in any re-
tirement allowance paid or payable for time prior to said
effective date.
   Section 168.1.10. All payments provided for persons who
are members under section 168.1 shall be made from funds
derived from the following sources, plus interest earned on
said funds:
   (1) The normal rate of contribution of each member shall
be based on his age taken to the next lower complete quarter
year, (a) at the date he became a member under sections 165
or 168, in the case of persons who are members under these
sections, or (b) at July 1, 1945, in the case of persons who are
members under section 166, and his age taken to the next lower
completed quarter year, 'when he entered the police depart-
ment, or (c) on his age at the date he becomes a member under
section 168.1, in the case of persons who become members on
or after July 1, 1945 without credit for services counted under
section 168.1.9. The age of entrance into the police depart-
ment shall be determined by deducting the member's service
credited under section 168.1.9 as rendered prior to the date
upon which his age is based for determination of the rate of
contribution according to the sentence next preceding, from
said age. The normal rate of contribution of each member, to
be effective from the effective date of membership under sec-
tion 168.1, shall be such as, on the average for such member,
will provide, assuming service without interruption, under sec-
tion 168.1.2, one-third of that portion of the service retire-
ment allowance to which he would be entitled, without con-
tinuance to dependents, upon first qualifying as to age and
service, for retirement under that section, without discount of
35(30             S T A T U T E S O F CALIFORNIA     [Ees. Ch. 10

allowance, which is based on service rendered after the date
upon which his age is based for determination of his rate of
contribution according to the first sentence in this paragraph,
and assuming the contribution to be made from that date.
The normal rate of contribution, however, shall not exceed six
per cent.
   (2) The dependent rate of contribution of each member
which shall be required of each member throughout his mem-
bership in addition to the normal contributions, and in the
same manner as normal contributions, shall be such as, on the
average for such member, will provide, assuming service with-
out interruption under section 168.1.2, and upon his first qual-
ifying as to age and service for retirement under that section,
one-third of the portion of his allowance, which is to be con-
tinued under section 168.1.5, after his death and throughout
the life of a surviving wife whose age at said death is three
years less than the age of said member. If at the date of re-
tirement for service or retirement for disability resulting from
injury received in performance of duty, said member has no
wife who would qualify for the continuance of the allowance
to her after the death of said member, or upon retirement
from disability resulting from other causes, regardless of his
marital condition, the dependent contributions with accumu-
lated interest thereon, shall be paid to him forthwith. The de-
pendent rate of contribution, however, shall not exceed the
difference between six per cent and the member's normal rate
of contribution, and said dependent rate may be taken as a
fiat percentage of the member's normal rate, regardless of the
age of qualification for service retirement.
   (3) There shall be deducted from each payment of compen-
sation made to a member under section 168.1, a sum deter-
mined by applying the member's rates of contribution to such
compensation payment. The sum so deducted shall be paid
forthwith to the retirement system. Said contribution shall be
credited to the individual account of the member from whose
salary it was deducted, and the total of said contributions, to-
gether with interest credited thereon in the same manner as is
prescribed by the board of supervisors for crediting interest
to contributions of other members of the retirement system,
shall be applied to provide part of the retirement allowance
granted to, or allowance granted on account of said member,
under this section or shall be paid to said member or his es-
tate or beneficiary as provided in sections 168.1.7, 168.1.8, and
168.1.9.
   (4) Contributions based on time included in paragraphs
 (1), (2), (3) and (4) of section 168.1.9, and deducted prior to
July 1, 1945, from compensation of persons who become mem-
bers under section 168.1, and standing with interest thereon,
to the credit of such members on the records of the retirement
system on said date, shall continue to be credited to the individ-
ual accounts of said members and shall be combined with and
EeS. Ch. 10]         1969 REGULAR SESSION                   35Q1

 administered in the same manner as the contributions de-
 ducted after said date.
    (5) The total contributions, with interest thereon, made by
 or charged against the city and county and standing to its
 credit, in the accounts of the retirement system, on account of
persons who become members under this section, shall be ap-
 plied to provide the benefits under this section.
    (6) The city and county shall contribute to the retirement
 system such amounts as may be necessary, when added to the
 contributions referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this
section 168.1.10, to provide the benefits payable under this
 section. Such contributions of the city and county to provide
the portion of the benefits hereunder which shall be based on
service rendered by each member prior to the date upon which
 his age is based for determination of his rate of contribution
in paragraph (1), section 168.1.10, shall not be less during
any fiscal year than the amount of such benefits paid during
said year. Such contributions of the city and county to pro-
vide the portion of the benefits hereunder which shall be based
on service rendered by respective members on and after the
date stated in the next preceding sentence, shall be made in
annual installments, and the installment to be paid in any
year shall be determined by the application of a percentage
to the total compensation paid during said year, to persons
who are members under section 168.1, said percentage to be
the ratio of the value on July 1, 1945, or at the later date of
a periodical actuarial valuation and investigation into the ex-
perience under the system, of the benefits thereafter to be paid
under this section, from contributions of the city and county,
less the amount of such contributions, and plus accumulated
interest thereon, then held by said system to provide said
benefits on account of service rendered by respective members
after the date stated in the sentence next preceding, to the
value at said respective dates of salaries thereafter payable to
said members. Said values shall be determined by the actuary,
who shall take into account the interest which shall be earned
on said contributions, the compensation experience of mem-
bers, and the probabilities of separation by all causes, of mem-
bers from service before retirement and of death after retire-
ment. Said percentage shall be changed only on the basis of
said periodical actuarial valuation and investigation into the
experience under the system. Said actuarial valuation shall be
made every even-numbered year and said investigation into
the experience under the system shall be made every odd-num-
bered year.
   (7) To promote the stability of the retirement system
through a joint participation in the result of variations in the
experience under mortality, investment and other contingen-
cies, the contributions of both members and the city and
county held by the system to provide the benefits under this
section, shall be a part of the fund in which all other assets of
3502              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ R e g (Jfr ^0

said system are included. Nothing in this section shall affect
the obligation of the city and county to pay to the retirement
system any amounts which may or shall become due under the
provisions of the charter prior to the effective date hereof, and
which are represented on said effective date, in the accounts
of said system by debits against the city and county.
    Section 171.1.10. All payments provided under this sec-
tion shall be made from funds derived from the following
sources, plus interest earned on said funds:
    (1) The normal rate of contribution of each member under
this section shall be based on his age taken to the next lower
complete quarter year, (a) at the earlier of the dates he
became a member under section 165, 165.2 or 171, in the case
of persons who are members under these sections, or (b) on
his age at the date he becomes a member under section 171.1
in the case of persons who become members on or after the
 effective date of this amendment, without credit for service
 counted under section 171.1.9. The age of entrance into the
 fire department shall be determined by deducting the mem-
 ber's service credited under section 171.1.9 as rendered prior
 to the date upon which his age is based for determination of
 his rate of contribution according to the sentence next pre-
 ceding, from said age. The normal rate of contribution of each
 such member, to be effective from the effective date of member-
 ship under section 171.1, shall be such as, on the average for
 such member, will provide, assuming service without inter-
 ruption, under section 171.1.2, one-third of that portion of the
 service retirement allowance to which he would be entitled,
 without continuance to dependents, upon first qualifying as
 to age and service, for retirement under that section, which
 is based on service rendered after the date upon which his
 age is based for determination of his rate of contribution ac-
 cording to the first sentence in this paragraph, and assuming
 the contribution to be made from that date. The normal rate
 of contribution, however, shall not exceed six per cent.
     (2) The dependent contributions of each member under this
 section which shall be required of each member throughout
 his membership in addition to the normal contributions, and
 in the same manner as normal contributions, shall be such as,
 on the average for such member, will provide, assuming serv-
 ice without interruption under section 171.1.2, and upon his
 first qualifying as to age and service for retirement under that
 section, one-third of the portion of his allowance, which is to
 be continued under section 171.1.5 after his death and through-
 out the life of a surviving wife whose age at said death is
  three years less than the age of said member. If, at the date of
  retirement for service or retirement for disability resulting
 from injury received in performance of duty, said member has
  no wife who would qualify for the continuance of the allow-
  ance to her after the death of said member, or upon retire-
  ment for disability resulting from other causes, regardless of
                   1969
Kes. Ch. 10]              REGULAR SESSION                 3503

his marital condition, the dependent contributions with accu-
mulated interest thereon, shall be paid to him forthwith. The
dependent rate of contribution, however, shall not exceed the
difference between six per cent and the member's normal rate
of contribution, and said dependent rate may be taken as a
flat percentage of the member's normal rate, regardless of the
age of qualification for service retirement.
    (3) There shall be deducted from each payment of compen-
sation made to a member under this section, a sum determined
by applying the member's rates of contribution to such com-
pensation payment. The sum so deducted shall be paid forth-
with to the retirement system. Said contribution shall be
credited to the individual account of the member from whose
salary it was deducted, and the total of said contributions,
together with interest credited thereon in the same manner
as is prescribed by the board of supervisors for crediting
interest to contributions of other members of the retirement
system, shall be applied to provide part of the retirement
allowance granted to, or allowance granted on account of said
member, under this section or shall be paid to said member
or his estate or beneficiary as provided in sections 171.1.7,
171.1.8 and 171.1.9.
    (4) Contributions based on time included in paragraphs
(1), (2) and (3) of section 171.1.9, and deducted prior to the
effective date thereof, from compensation of persons who be-
come members under section 171.1, and standing with interest
thereon, to the credit of such members on the records of the
retirement system on said date, shall continue to be credited
to the individual accounts of said members and shall be com-
bined with and administered in the same manner as the con-
tributions deducted after said date.
    (5) The total contributions, with interest thereon, made by
or charged against the city and county and standing to its
credit, in the accounts of the retirement system, on account
of persons who become members under this section, shall be
applied to provide the benefits under this section.
    (6) The city and county shall contribute to the retirement
system such amounts as may be necessary, when added to the
contributions referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this
section 171.1.10, to provide the benefits payable under this
section. Such contributions of the city and county to provide
the portion of the benefits hereunder which shall be based on
service rendered by each member prior to the date upon which
 his age is based for determination of his rate of contribution
 in paragraph (1) section 171.1.10, shall not be less during any
 fiscal year than the amount of such benefits paid during said
 year. Such contributions of the city and county to provide the
 portion of the benefits hereunder which shall be based on serv-
ice rendered by respective members on and after the date stated
 in the next preceding sentence, shall be made in annual in-
3504              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Reg   Ch. 10

stallments, and the installment to be paid in any year shall
be determined by the application of a percentage to the total
 compensation paid during said year, to persons who are mem-
bers under section 171.1, said percentage to be the ratio of the
value on the effective date hereof, or at the later date of a
periodical actuarial valuation and investigation into the ex-
 perience under the system, of the benefits thereafter to be paid
 under this section, from contributions of the city and county,
 less the amount of such contributions, and plus accumulated
 interest thereon, then held by said system to provide said
benefits on account of service rendered by respective members
 after the date stated in the sentence next preceding, to the
value at said respective dates of salaries thereafter payable to
said members. Said values shall be determined by the actuary,
who shall take into account the interest which shall be earned
 on said contributions, the compensation experience of mem-
bers, and the probabilities of separation by all causes, of mem-
bers from service before retirement and of death after retire-
ment. Said percentage shall be changed only on the basis of
said periodical actuarial valuation and investigation into the
experience under the system. Said actuarial valuation shall be
made every even-numbered year and said investigation into
the experience under the system shall be every odd-numbered
year.
    (7) To promote the stability of the retirement system
through a joint participation in the result of variations in
the experience under mortality, investment and other contin-
gencies the contributions of both members and the city and
county held by the system to provide the benefits under this
section, shall be a part of the fund in which all other assets
of said system are included. Nothing in this section shall
affect the obligations of the city and county to pay to the re-
tirement system any amounts which may or shall become due
under the provisions of the charter prior to the effective date
hereof, and which are represented on said effective date, in the
accounts of said system by debits against the city and county.

                         Proposition F
  Describing and setting forth a proposal to the qualified
electors of the City and County of San Francisco to amend
the Charter of said city and county by amending Section 58
thereof relating to probation boards.
   The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San
Francisco hereby submits to the qualified electors of said city
and county at an election to be held therein on November 5,
1968 a proposal to amend the Charter of said city and county
by amending Section 58 thereof to read as follows:

                       Probation Boards
   Section 58. The adult probation committee and the juve-
nile probation board or committee shall continue to exercise
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 10]                REGULAE SESSION                  3505

 their respective powers and duties as fixed by state laws, except
 as in this charter otherwise provided.
    The Superior court judges of the city and county presiding
 in the department or departments for the hearing and disposi-
 tion of criminal cases and proceedings shall, by order entered
 in the minutes of the court in the criminal department or
 departments thereof, appoint the adult probation officer.
    A majority of the superior court judges of the city and
 county shall, by order entered in the minutes of the court in
 the department of the presiding judge, appoint the chief pro-
 bation officer of the juvenile court, such appointment to be
 based on specified professional qualifications to be established
 and published by a majority of the judges of the superior
 court.
    The chief probation officer of the juvenile court may be re-
 moved only by a vote of a majority of the judges of the
 superior court. The chief probation officer, prior to his re-
 moval, may request a hearing before a committee of Are judges
 appointed by the presiding judge.
    The adult probation officer shall appoint such assistants,
 deputies and employees as may be allowed or provided by the
 board of supervisors, subject to confirmation by the adult pro-
bation board or committee created by state law.
   The chief probation officer of the juvenile court shall ap-
point such assistants, deputies and employees as may be al-
lowed or provided by the board of supervisors, subject to
confirmation by the juvenile probation board or committee
created by state law.
   The salaries of the adult probation officer, the chief proba-
tion officer of the juvenile court, their assistants, deputies
and employees shall be fixed by the board of supervisors in the
same manner as for other officials and employees of the city
and county.
   The adult probation officer, the chief probation officer of
the juvenile court and their assistants and deputies shall have
the powers conferred upon adult probation officers, probation
officers of the juvenile court, their assistants and deputies, by
the laws of the State of California; and they shall perform all
of the duties prescribed by such laws, and such additional
duties as may be prescribed by ordinances of the board of
supervisors.
   The civil service provisions of this charter shall apply to
and govern the assistants, deputies and employees of the adult
probation officer and of the chief probation officer of the
juvenile court. For purposes of this charter the adult proba-
tion officer shall be the appointing officer as to his assistants,
deputies and employees, subject to confirmation as aforesaid;
and the said chief probation officer of the juvenile court shall
be the appointing officer as to his assistants, deputies and em-
ployees, subject to confirmation as aforesaid.
3506               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [R e s _ Ch. 10

   Any person who has served as an assistant, deputy or em-
ployee of such adult probation officer or of such chief pro-
bation officer of the juvenile court, or in the probation depart-
ment of the city and county for a continuous period of one
year immediately prior to the time this charter shall go into
effect, and who shall be actually serving as such assistant,
deputy, or employee at that time, is hereby declared to be
appointed within the civil service provisions of this charter
to the office or position in which he may then be serving; and
shall be entitled to all the benefits of this charter thereafter.
   The pension and retirement provisions of this charter shall
apply to and govern the adult probation officer, the chief pro-
bation officer of the juvenile court, their assistants, deputies
and employees.
                           Proposition G
  Describing and setting forth a proposal to the qualified
electors of the City and County of San Francisco to amend
the Charter of said city and county by adding Section 158.5
thereto to empower the board of supervisors to contract with
the Board of Administration of the Public Employees' Retire-
ment System of the State of California to provide that the
sheriff, undersheriff and all deputized personnel of the sheriff's
department shall be members of said retirement system.
   The Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San
Francisco hereby submits to the qualified electors of said city
and county at an election to be held therein on November 5,
1968, a proposal to amend the charter of said city and county
by adding Section 158.5 thereto, to read as follows:
   Section 158.5. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Charter, the board of supervisors shall have the power to
contract with the Board of Administration of the Public Em-
ployees ' Retirement System of the State of California to pro-
vide that the sheriff, undersheriff and all deputized personnel
of the sheriff's department shall be members of the public em-
ployees' retirement system, and the board of supervisors and
the retirement board shall have the power to perform all
acts necessary to carry out the terms and purposes of such
contract.
  Any person who shall become a member of the public em-
ployees' retirement system pursuant to such contract shall
have the right to be a member of the health service system
and the health service board shall make provision for partici-
pation in the benefits of the health service system by such
persons.

State of California              \
City and County of San Francisco ) s s
   This is to certify that we, John A. Ertola, President of the
Board of Supervisors of the City and County of San Fran-
cisco, and Robert J. Dolan, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
                              1969
KeS. C h . 1 1 ]                     REGULAR SESSION                         3507

of said city and county, have compared the foregoing pro-
posed and ratified amendments to the Charter of the said
City and County of San Francisco with the original proposals
which were submitted to the electors of said city and county
at a general election held on Tuesday, the fifth day of Novem-
ber, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty-eight; and find
that the foregoing is a full, true, correct and exact copy
thereof, and we further certify that the facts set forth in the
preamble preceding said amendments to said Charter are true.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the same to be authenticated by the seal of the City
and County of San Francisco, this twenty-third day of De-
cember, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Sixty-eight.

                            J O H N A. ERTOLA
    (SEAL)                 President of the Board of Supervisors
                             of the City and County of San Francisco

EOBBRT J . DOLAN
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
  of the City and County of San Francisco

Approved as to form:
THOMAS M. O'CONNOR
City Attorney
   Now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendments to the Charter of the City and County
of San Francisco, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by
the electors of said city and county, and as hereinbefore fully
set forth, be and the same are hereby approved as a whole
without amendment or alteration, for and as amendments to,
and as part of the Charter of the City and County of San
Francisco.

                        EESOLUTION CHAPTER 11
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 1—Approving a certain
  amendment to the Charter of the City of Santa Barbara, a
  municipal corporation in the County of Santa           Barbara,
  State of California, voted for and ratified by the qualified
  electors of said city at a special election consolidated with
  the general election held therein on November 5, 1968.
                   [Piled with Secretary of State J a n u a r y 20, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been duly and regularly taken
and had for the adoption and ratification of an amendment,
hereinafter set forth, to the Charter of the City of Santa
3508               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [EeS. Ch. 11

Barbara, a municipal corporation in the County of Santa
Barbara, State of California, and set out in the certificate of
the mayor and city clerk of said city as follows:

  CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION OF A CHARTER AMENDMENT BY
          ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

State of California     1
County of Santa Barbara > ss.
City of Santa Barbara   J
    We, the undersigned, W. Don MacGillivray, Mayor of the
 City of Santa Barbara, and Robert W. Hutton, City Clerk of
 said City, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
    That the City of Santa Barbara, a municipal corporation in
 the County of Santa Barbara, State of California, is now and
 at all times herein mentioned was a city duly organized, exist-
 ing and acting under a freeholders charter adopted under and
 pursuant to Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the
 State of California.
    That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
 Council of said City, being the legislative body thereof, duly
 and regularly submitted to the qualified electors of said City a
certain proposal for the amendment of the Charter of said
 City at a special election consolidated with the general election
 duly and regularly called and held for that purpose in said
 City on the 5th day of November, 1968, said charter amend-
ment being herein designated as Charter Amendment—Prop-
osition D.
    That on the 21st day of September, 1968, said Council
caused said proposed Charter amendment to be duly and regu-
larly published and advertised in each and every edition of
said 21st day of September, 1968, in the Santa Barbara News-
Press, a daily newspaper of general circulation, printed, pub-
lished and circulated in said City, there being no official paper
of said City.
    That said Council caused copies of said proposed Charter
amendment to be printed in convenient pamphlet form and in
type of not less than 10-point and caused copies thereof to be
mailed to each of the qualified electors of said City.
   That said Council, until the day fixed for the election upon
said proposed Charter amendment, did advertise in said Santa
Barbara News-Press, a daily newspaper of general circulation
in said City, a notice that copies thereof might be had upon
application therefor; that copies of said proposed Charter
amendment could be had upon application therefor at the
office of the City Clerk of said City up to and including the
day fixed for said special election.
   That said special election consolidated with a general elec-
tion was duly and regularly held in said City on the 5th day
                    1969
EeS. Ch. 11]               BEGUDAR SESSION                  3509

of November, 1968, which date was not less than forty (40)
and not more than sixty (60) days after completion of the
advertising of said proposed Charter amendment, and the
returns of said special election were duly and regularly can-
vassed and the results declared and entered, namely, that at
said election a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon
voted in favor of and did ratify said Charter amendment here-
inafter specifically set forth.
   That said amendment to the Charter of said City so ratified
by the voters of said City is as follows, to wit:

               Charter Amendment—Proposition D
  That Section 500 of Article V of the Charter of the City
of Santa Barbara (1967) be amended to read as follows:

                            "Article V
                   "Mayor and City Council
   "Section 500. City Council. Terms. The elective officers
of the City shall consist of a City Council of seven members,
including the Mayor, all to be elected from the City at large at
the times and in the manner provided in this Charter and
who shall serve for terms of four years and until their respec-
tive successors qualify.
   " T h e Mayor and members of the City Council in office at
the time this Charter amendment takes effect shall continue
in office until their successors are elected and qualified. Three
members of the City Council shall be elected at the general
municipal election to be held in April, 1969, (to succeed the
members whose terms expire in 1969) and each fourth year
thereafter. Three members of the City Council shall be elected
at the general municipal election to be held in April, 1971, (to
succeed the members whose terms expire in 1971) and each
fourth year thereafter. The Mayor shall be elected as Mayor,
 separate and apart from the other members of the City Coun-
 cil, at the general municipal election held in April, 1969, and
 each fourth year thereafter.
    " T h e term of the Mayor and each member of the City
 Council shall commence on the first Tuesday following his
 election. Ties in voting among candidates for office shall be
 settled by the casting of lots.''

  That we have compared the amendment as stated herein
with the original proposal submitted to the electors of said
City and find and certify that it is a full, true and correct
copy thereof.
  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of said City of Santa Barbara to be affixed
hereto this 9th day of December, 1968.
3510               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Oh. 12

                        W. D O N MACGILLIVBAT, Mayor of the
  (SEAL)                  City of Santa Barbara, California
                        ROBERT W. HUTTON, City Clerk of the
                          City of Santa Barbara, California
and
  WHEBBAS, Said proposed charter amendment as ratified (be-
ing hereinabove set forth) has been and now is duly presented
and submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for
approval or rejection as a whole, without power of alteration
and in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Con-
stitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate concurring, a majority of all the Members elected to
each house voting therefor and concurring therein, That the
aforementioned amendment to the Charter of the City of Santa
Barbara as proposed to, adopted and ratified by, the qualified
electors of said City of Santa Barbara be and the same is
hereby approved as a whole, without amendment or alteration,
for and as an amendment to and as a part of the Charter of
the City of Santa Barbara.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 12
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 12—Relative
               to proclaiming Astronauts' Bay.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 20, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature and all other
Californians with pride and wonder recently witnessed the
exciting and daring flight to the moon by National Aeronau-
tics and Space Administration Astronauts William Anders,
Frank Borman and James Lovell; and
   WHEREAS, This significant and impressive milestone in
man's reach towards space has inspired many with the accom-
plishments which men working together in peace can achieve;
and
   WHEREAS, Californians note with pride the contribution to
this great adventure made by the employees of the Aerojet
General Corporation in the design and manufacture of the
service propulsion engine which functioned faithfully during
the Apollo 8 mission; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the
Governor to select an appropriate date therefor and proclaim
such date as Astronauts' Day and to invite the astronauts of
the Apollo 8 mission to come to California on this day to ad-
dress the Legislature in joint convention and receive an appro-
priate award from the Governor; and be it further
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 131                 RBCtm^.K SESSION                        3511

  Resolved, That the Governor furnish and present an appro-
priate award to each of such astronauts on Astronauts' D a y ;
and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 13
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 2—Relative to
        congratulating the Honorable Robert E. Finch.
           [Piled with Secretary of State J a n u a r y 20, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t was indeed with the most sincere sense of
pleasure and pride that the Members of the Legislature of the
State of California learned of the selection by the President-
Elect of the "United States of the Honorable Robert H. Finch,
the Lieutenant Governor of California, to become the Secre-
tary of Health, Education, and Welfare of the United States;
and
   WHEREAS, One of the most popular and able men to ever
hold the office, the Honorable Robert H. Finch has compiled
a distinguished record of achievement as California's 38th
Lieutenant Governor in serving as the President of the Senate;
as a Regent of the University of California and a Trustee of
the California State Colleges; as Chairman of California's Job
Training and Placement Council, the Commission of the Cali-
fornias, the Interagency Council for Ocean Resources, the
California Bicentennial Celebration Commission, and of the
Electronic Data Processing Policy Committee; and as a mem-
ber of the Executive Committee of the Intergovernmental
Council on Urban Growth, the State Lands Commission, the
Governor's Council, the California State Disaster Council, the
Toll Bridge Authority, the Commission on Interstate Coopera-
tion, and the Governor's Cabinet; and
   WHEREAS, He has a thorough understanding of the role of
government in today's complex society and the wisdom and
vision to find practical solutions to the knotty problems facing
the nation in the fields of health, education, and welfare; and
   WHEREAS, A graduate of Occidental College and the Univer-
sity of Southern California Law School, he is a member of the
State Bar of California, and has been an instructor, counsel,
and trustee of Palos Verdes College and an instructor and
member of the Advisory Board of Marymount College; and
   WHEREAS, During World War I I and the Korean War he
served his nation as an enlisted man and officer of the United
States Marine Corps; and
   WHEREAS, A devoted husband and father, he and his wife,
the former Carol Crothers, are the proud parents of four chil-
dren, Maureen, 18; Kevin, 14; Priscilia, 12; and Cathleen, 10;
and
3512               STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA                 [KeS. Ch. 14

   WHEREAS, The Honorable Kobert H. Finch is a man emi-
nently qualified to serve the people of this nation in the high
office which he has been selected by the President-Elect to
hold; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members do hereby extend
their heartiest congratulations to the Honorable Robert H.
Finch upon his selection to become the Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare of the United States and their best
wishes for his success in that position j and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to the Honorable Robert
H. Finch.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 14
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 6—Approving five certain
  amendments to the Charter of the County of San Diego,
  State of California, submitted to, voted for, and ratified by
  the qualified electors of said county at a general election
  held therein on November 5,1968.
           £Filed With Secretary of State January 20, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The County of San Diego, State of California,
has been at all times herein mentioned, and now is, a body
politic, and a political subdivision of the State of California,
and is now and has been, since the first day of July 1933, or-
ganized and acting under and by virtue of a freeholders'
charter, adopted under and by virtue of Section 7^ of Article
X I of the Constitution of the State of California, which charter
was duly ratified by the qualified electors of said county at a
general election held for that purpose on November 8, 1932,
and approved by the Legislature of the State of California, on
January 17, 1933, and filed in the office of the Secretary of
State on January 17, 1933; and
   WHEEEAS, The board of supervisors of said county, pursuant
to the provisions of said Section 7-J of Article X I of said Con-
stitution, did by resolutions and orders adopted on September
10, 1968 and September 16, 1968 duly propose to the qualified
electors of said County of San Diego, five amendments to the
charter of said county, designated on the ballot as County
Propositions A, B, C, D and E, and ordered that said amend-
ments be submitted to said qualified electors of said county at
a general election to be held in said county on November 5,
1968, which date was fixed by law as the date for holding said
general election; and
   WHEEEAS, Said proposed amendments to the Charter of the
County of San Diego were published for 10 times in the San
Diego Union, a daily newspaper of general circulation, printed,
published and circulated in said county, on September 24, 25,
26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and October 1, 2, and 3, 1968; and
                    1969
Res. Ch. 14]               REGULAR SESSION                   3513

   WHEREAS, Said general election was held in said County of
San Diego on November 5, 1968, which said day was not less
than 30 days and not more than 60 days after said proposed
amendments to said charter had been published for 10 times
in said San Diego Union; and
   WHEREAS, Thereafter the returns of said general election
held in the County of San Diego on November 5, 1968, at
which said election said proposals were duly submitted to the
vote of the qualified electors of said county, were made to and
canvassed by the Registrar of Voters of the County of San
Diego, and by said officer certified to the clerk of the board
of supervisors of said county, and said clerk of the board of
supervisors did on November 20, 1968, duly enter on the
records of said board of supervisors a statement of the result
of said canvass and said election in the form and manner
prescribed by law; and
   WHEREAS, At said general election held on November 5,
1968, said proposed amendments to the Charter of the County
of San Diego were and each of them was ratified by a majority
of the electors of said county voting thereon; and
   WHEREAS, Said charter amendments so ratified by the elec-
tors of said County of San Diego are now submitted to the
Legislature of the State of California for approval or rejection
as a whole, without power of alteration or amendment, pursu-
ant to the provisions of said Section 7-J of Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California and are in words and
figures as follows, to wit:

                    County Proposition A
       First Proposed Amendment to the Charter of the
                     County of San Diego
   That Section 78 of said Charter be amended to read as
follows :
   Section 78: The Civil Service of the County is hereby di-
vided into the Unclassified and the Classified service. The
Unclassified Service shall consist of:
   (a) All officers elected by the People and their Chief Depu-
ties and all confidential or special investigators employed by
any of said elective officers.
   (b) The Assistant District Attorney and the Chief Deputy
District Attorney and not to exceed three confidential or spe-
cial investigators in said office to be designated by the District
Attorney.
   (c) The Under-sheriff and not to exceed three confidential
investigators or deputies in the office of the Sheriff, to be
designated by the Sheriff.
   (d) All appointive Boards and Commissions.
   (e) Superintendent of Schools.
   (f) The Law Library Trustees.
   (g) Members of the Civil Service Commission.
3514               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Bes. Ch. 14

   (h) Superintendents, Principals and Teachers in the public
schools.
   (i) All persons serving the County without compensation.
    (j) All Judges of Justice Courts.
    (k) Any officer or employee whose appointment is contin-
gent upon approval or confirmation by the State of California.
    (I) Students who are engaged in regularly established ac-
credited training programs.
    (m) Persons employed as guards, keepers or matrons in the
office of the Sheriff, Marshal, Probation Officer or other law
enforcement agency when such employment does not exceed
a total of ninety working days during any calendar year.
    (n) Persons employed as watchmen or merchants' patrol-
men when such employment does not exceed 10 working days
per calendar month.
    (o) Deputy Registrars of Voters employed only to register
electors.
    (p) Persons employed as guards, custodians, wardens or
caretakers in County parks for seasonal work.
    (q) Persons employed as Assistant Registrars of Vital
Statistics and paid on the basis of the number of births or
deaths registered.
    (r) Persons employed in positions for expert professional
temporary services and when such positions are exempted from
the classified service for a specified period of temporary serv-
ice by order of the Civil Service Commission.
    (s) Persons employed in any part-time or intermittent
capacity where employment does not exceed ninety working
days in any fiscal year when such positions are exempted from
the classified service by order of the Civil Service Commission.
    The Classified Service shall comprise all positions not specif-
ically included by this Charter in the Unclassified Service;
provided, however, that in the event of the creation of a new
position or in the case of a vacancy in any position requiring
peculiar and exceptional qualifications of a scientific, profes-
sional or expert character, upon satisfactory evidence that
competitive examinations to qualify applicants for said posi-
tion are impracticable, and that the position can best be filled
by the selection of a person of recognized attainments, competi-
tive examinations may be suspended by the Commission, but no
such suspension shall be general in its application to such posi-
tion and all such eases of suspension shall be reported, together
with the reasons therefor, to the Board of Supervisors.
                   County Proposition B
      Second Proposed Amendment to the Charter of the
                    County of San Diego
  That Section 78.1 of said Charter be amended to read as
follows:
  Section 78.1: Nothing in this article shall prevent the
County or any officer, board, commission or agency of the
                     1969
Res. Ch. 14]                REGTTLAK SESSION                  3515
County from employing an independent contractor to provide
services to the County when the Civil Service Commission has
determined, upon the recommendation of the Board of Super-
visors, that the services can be provided more economically
and efficiently than such services can be provided by a person
or persons employed in the classified service, and the employ-
ment of such independent contractor will not require the re-
moval, suspension, or layoff of any employee in the classified
service.
                     County Proposition C
       Third Proposed Amendment to the Charter of the
                     County of San Diego

   That Sections 17, 17.1, 17.2, 17.3, 17.4, 17.5 and 17.6 be
added to said Charter to read as follows:
   Section 17: Chief Administrative Officer. There is hereby
created the office of Chief Administrative Officer. On the effec-
tive date of this section the incumbent in the office heretofore
established by Article V I I I in the County's Administrative
Code shall succeed to this office. Any vacancy hereafter oc-
curring in this office shall be filled by appointment in the pro-
cedure prescribed for appointments to the Classified Service.
The Chief Administrative Officer may be removed by a unani-
mous vote of all members of the Board of Supervisors follow-
ing a 15-day notice of intention to remove; he may be removed
by a i vote of all members of the Board of Supervisors follow-
ing a 30-day written notice of intention to remove.
   Section 17.1: Duties. The Chief Administrative Officer
shall act under the supervision of the Board and shall be sub-
ject to its direction. The Chief Administrative Officer shall
attend meetings of the Board and shall have the right to report
on or to discuss any matter before said Board concerning the
affairs of the offices, departments, institutions, districts, boards
and commissions of the County under his supervision. The
Chief Administrative Officer shall assist the Board in coordi-
nating the functions and operations of the several offices, de-
partments, institutions, districts, boards and commissions of
the County and shall on behalf of the Board administer, en-
force and carry out the policies, rules, regulations and ordi-
nances of the Board relating to the administration of the
offices, departments, institutions, districts, boards and commis-
sions of the County under his supervision.
   Section 17.2: Supervision of County Departments and Op-
erations. The Chief Administrative Officer shall execute on
behalf of the Board its administrative supervision and control
of the affairs of the County placed in his charge by said Board
and of all offices, departments, institutions, districts, boards
and commissions of the County for whom or for which the
Board is required by law to adopt an annual btidget, except the
Assessor, the Superintendent of Schools, the District Attorney,
the Sheriff, and the Civil Service Commission.
3516               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [EeS. Ch. 14

    Section 17.3: Supervision of Expenditures. The Chief Ad-
ministrative Officer, as agent of the Board, shall supervise the
expenditures of all offices, departments, institutions, districts,
hoards and commissions of the County.
 He shall report to the Board on whether such expenditures
 are necessary in his opinion for the current needs of such
 offices, departments, institutions, districts, boards or commis-
 sions of the County, and may report to the Board on any
 other matters relating thereto.
    Section 17.4: Personnel. The Chief Administrative Officer
may make recommendations to the Board and to the Civil Serv-
ice Commission for the temporary transfer of such personnel
 as in his judgment is necessary from time to time to enable the
offices, departments, institutions, districts, boards or commis-
sions of the County under his supervision to perform their
functions or accomplish their work with the greatest efficiency,
 and the Chief Administrative Officer may recommend to the
Board the creation or abolition of positions in any such office,
department, institution, district, board or commission of the
 County. No new positions shall be created or filled in any office,
department, institution, district, board or commission of the
 County before receiving the recommendation of the Chief Ad-
ministrative Officer thereon.
    Section 17.5: Performance of Services. The Chief Admin-
istrative Officer may call upon any officer or employee in any
office, department, institution, district, board or commission
of the County under his supervision to perform any service
which such officer or employee is legally authorized or re-
quired to perform to assist in carrying out any of the powers
and duties vested in the Chief Administrative Officer by this
Charter.
    Section 17.6: Appeal to Board. The head of any office, de-
partment, institution or district or any board or commission
that is dissatisfied with any decision of the Chief Administra-
tive Officer that affects such office, department, institution, dis-
trict, board or commission may appeal to the Board of Super-
visors whose decision in the matter shall be final.

                  County Proposition D
        Fourth Proposed Amendment to the Charter
               of the County of San Diego
   That Sections 15 and 16 be added to said Charter to read
as follows:
   Section 15: Status of Appointive County Officers. On the
effective date of this section all incumbents in appointive
County offices and their principal assistants then in the Classi-
fied Service, except for the Chief Administrative Officer, shall
remain in the Classified Service. All persons appointed to such
offices following the effective date of this section other than
the County Counsel and his principal assistant and those offi-
                   1969
Res. Ch. 14]              REGULAR SESSION                  35^

cers designated as in the Unclassified Service, shall be in the
Executive Service of the County.
   Section 16: Executive Service. There is hereby created the
Executive Service of the County. All appointive County offi-
cers and their principal assistants, other than the County
Counsel and his principal assistant and those officers desig-
nated as in the Unclassified Service, will be in the Executive
Service. Appointments to the Executive Service will be made
in the same manner as appointments to the Classified Service.
Any appointive officer in the Executive Service may be re-
moved by a f vote of the Board of Supervisors upon recom-
mendation of the Chief Administrative Officer. Any principal
assistant in the Executive Service may be removed by his ap-
pointive authority with the approval of the Chief Administra-
tive Officer. Any person to be removed from the Executive
Service shall be entitled to demand and receive a public hear-
ing before the Board of Supervisors at which the grounds
for his removal shall be detailed and at which he may present
evidence in regard thereto. The Board of Supervisors shall
provide by ordinance for the procedure for such hearing.

                    County Proposition E
         Fifth Proposed Amendment to the Charter
                 of the County of San Diego
  That Sections 14.1 and 14.2 of said Charter be repealed and
Section 14 of said Charter be amended to read as follows:
  Section 14: The Appointive County Officers shall b e :
  Agricultural Commissioner
  Auditor and Controller
  Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
  Coroner
  County Counsel
  County Engineer and Road Commissioner
  County Librarian
  County Veterinarian
  Director of Honor Camps
  Director of Medical Institutions
  Director of Parks and Recreation
  Director of Personnel
  Director of Planning
  Director of Public Health
  Director of Public Welfare
  Director of Public Works
  Director of Special District Services
  Director of Veterans Service
  Probation Officer
  Public Administrator
  Purchasing Agent
  Registrar of Voters
  Sealer of Weights and Measures
  Superintendent of Schools
3518              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res, Ch. 14

Such other officers as are now or hereafter may be required by
law or ordinance shall also be appointive. The County Engi-
neer and Road Commissioner shall be ex officio County Sur-
veyor.
  The Board of Supervisors, by ordinance, may combine and
having combined may separate any of the appointive offices.

State of California 1
County of San Diego J
   We, the undersigned, Henry A. Boney, Chairman of the
Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego, State of
California, and R. B. James, County Clerk of said County of
San Diego, do hereby certify:
   That the foregoing proposed and ratified amendments to the
Charter of said County of San Diego, submitted to the electors
of said county at a general election held in said county on
November 5, 1968, have been compared by us, and each of us,
with the proposed amendments set forth in the resolutions
adopted by said Board of Supervisors as hereinbefore set forth,
and that the foregoing is a full, true, correct and exact copy
thereof, and we further certify that the facts set forth in the
preamble preceding said amendments to said Charter are, and
each of them is, true.
   I n witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the same to be authenticated by the seal of the said
Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego this 9th day
of December, 1968.
                      HENRY A. BONEY
   (SEAL)              Chairman of the Board of Supervisors
                        of the County of San Diego,
                        State of California
                      R. B. JAMES
                      County Clerk of the County of
                       San Diego, State of California
Attest:
R. B. JAMES
County Clerk of the County of
  San Diego, State of California

  (SEAL)

   WHEREAS, Said proposed amendments to the Charter of the
County of San Diego, each and all of which were so ratified
by a majority of the electors voting thereon at said general
election held on November 5, 1968, have been submitted to the
Legislature of the State of California for approval and rati-
fication as a whole, without power of alteration or amendment,
in accordance with the provisions of Section 7£ of Article X I
of the Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore,
be it
                       1969
Res. Ch. 15]                  REGULAR SESSION                        3519

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendments to the Charter of the County of San
Diego, as proposed by the Board of Supervisors of said County
of San Diego and as ratified by the electors of the said County
of San Diego, and as hereinbefore set forth, be, and the same
are hereby approved as a whole, without amendment or altera-
tion, as amendments to, and as part of, the Charter of the
County of San Diego.

                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E E 15
     Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 13—Relative to the
               death of Norma Lorbeer Murdy.
           [Filed With Secretary of State J a n u a r y 20, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, I t is with deep sorrow' that the Members of the
Legislature have learned of the death on J a n u a r y 7, 1969, of
Norma Lorbeer Murdy, wife of retired State Senator John A.
Murdy, J r . ; and
  WHEREAS, Senator and Mrs. Murdy shared 45 years of
wedded bliss together, years in which she was a loyal com-
panion and inspiration to her husband; and
  WHEREAS, Norma Murdy and her husband were pioneer
farmers and civic leaders in Orange County, and for many
years they made their home on a lima bean ranch north of
Huntington Beach, until the Senator's retirement in 1964; and
  WHEREAS, Norma Lorbeer Murdy earned the love and ad-
miration of all who knew her for her dedicated life as wife
and mother; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Members express their
deepest regret and sincere condolences at the passing of Norma
Murdy and extend their sympathy to her husband, Senator
John A. Murdy, Jr., and to her children, her son, John A.
Murdy, I I I , of Newport Beach, her two daughters, Mrs.
George R. Trotter, Jr., and Mrs. Willis Miller, both of Tustin,
and to her sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Hillis of Los Angeles, and to
her fourteen loving grandchildren; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to Senator John A. Murdy,
Jr., John A. Murdy, III, Mrs. George R. Trotter, Jr., Mrs.
Willis Miller, and Mrs. Elizabeth Hillis.




    111—1954
3520                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     rjjgg Qfr   1 6



                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 16
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 9—Relative to proclaim-
      ing the week of February 9-15 as Electrical Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 20, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, Electricity and the electrical industry contribute
 substantially to the social and economic strength and growth
 of the State of California; and
    WHEREAS, Through extensive research and continuing im-
 provements the electrical industry helps lead the way to hu-
man betterment and the prosperity of the State of California;
 and
    WHEREAS, I t is fitting that a period of time be set aside
to direct attention to the importance of public services per-
formed by electricity and to encourage safe and efficient use
of electricity and electrical equipment; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
electric industry for its significant contributions to the people
of the state; and be it further
   Resolved, That the members request the Governor to pro-
claim the week of February 9-15, 1969, as Electrical Week in
recognition of the electrical industry's many achievements;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and suitably prepared
copies of this resolution to the American Home Lighting In-
stitute, the Edison Electric Institute, the Farm Electrification
Council, the International Association of Electrical Leagues,
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Na-
tional Association of Electrical Distributors, the National Elec-
trical Contractors Association, and the National Electrical
Manufacturers Association.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 17
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 13—Relative to the
         proclamation of Junior Achievement Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 20, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members of
the Legislature that Junior Achievement was founded in 1919
as an educational program for high school students, designed
to develop informed and responsible citizens to protect the
economic and personal freedoms so important to our nation's
future; and
  WHEREAS, Through Junior Achievement, thousands of stu-
dents between the ages of 15 and 19 are given the opportunity
                         1969
Res. Ch. 18]                    REGULAR SESSION                    3521

to experience firsthand the A'alue of our free enterprise sys-
tem by operating their own businesses, financed by stockhold-
ers, and counseled by publie-service-minded companies; and
   WHEREAS, Bach year in the State of California, 8,784 high
school students have been given this business training in 472
Junior Achievement companies, in 15 communities throughout
the state; and
   WHEREAS, Through the Junior Achievement program of
telling high school students—the voters, employers, and em-
ployees of the future—that success in any field results from
strong preparation, good service, and business know-how, all
members of the community benefit; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor of the State of
California is requested to proclaim the week of January 26
through February 1, 1969, as Junior Achievement Week in
the State of California, and encourage business and civic lead-
ers, commerce, industry, and members of the professions to
assist Junior Achievement in expanding its facilities to ac-
commodate all students interested in participating in this
 "learn-by-doing" program; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 18
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 10—Relative to com-
  memorating the centennial of Japanese immigration to the
  United States.
               [Filed with Secretary of State January 24, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The first group of Japanese immigrants arrived
from Aizu Wakamatsu, Japan, aboard the sidewheeler
" C h i n a " of The Pacific Mail Steamship Company and entered
the United States on May 27, 1869, at San Francisco; and
   WHEREAS, This valiant and brave band of colonists pro-
ceeded to Sacramento by riverboat, traveled overland by
wagon to Placerville and Gold Hill, and established the Waka-
matsu Tea and Silk Farm Colony of Gold Hill by clearing
the land, building their homes, and cultivating plants and
seeds, including 50,000 three-year-old mulberry trees for silk
farming, which they had brought with them from their na-
tive l a n d ; a n d
   WHEREAS, Although this pioneer project was doomed in
less than two years by a combination of dry climate and a
scarcity of irrigation water, it nevertheless heralded a period
during which the Japanese people immigrated to California
to participate in the beginnings of the Golden State's agri-
cultural industry; and
3522              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 18

   "WHEREAS, On December 16, 1966, the Historical Land-
marks Advisory Committee of the Division of Beaches and
Parks unanimously approved the Wakamatsu Tea and Silk
Farm Colony of Gold Hill as a historical landmark and
stated that "Although the Wakamatsu Tea and Silk Farm
 Colony was short-lived and suffered its tragic ending, it sig-
naled the coming of Japanese pioneers to America and the
beginning of their notable contribution to the agricultural
industry of California. During the past three-quarters of the
century, they have left their marks in the teeming valleys
throughout the length and breadth of this great State. Many
descendants are carrying on the work of their pioneer fore-
bears with the same devotion, determination and skill which
helped to make California the most productive farming state
in the United States and the greatest agricultural region in
 the world . . . " ; and
   WHEREAS, Marking the first centennial of Japanese immi-
gration to America, the year 1969 bears witness to a century
in which Japanese-Americans have made immense contribu-
tions to the culture and heritage of their adopted land and
have overcome times of trial by perseverance and boundless
faith in the United States, which faith is best personified by
the Japanese American Creed, which states:
   " I am proud that I am an American citizen of Japanese
ancestry, for my very background makes me appreciate more
fully the wonderful advantages of this nation. I believe in
her institutions, ideals, and traditions; I glory in her herit-
age; I boast of her history; I trust in her future. She has
granted me liberties and opportunities such as no individual
enjoys in the world today. She has given me an education
befitting kings. She has entrusted me with the responsibilities
of the franchise. She has permitted me to build a home, to
earn a livelihood, to worship, think, speak, and act as I
please—as a free man equal to every other man.
   "Although some individuals may discriminate against me,
I shall never become bitter or lose faith, for I know that such
persons are not representative of the majority of the Ameri-
can people. True, I shall do all in my power to discourage such
practices, but I shall do it in the American way: above-board,
in the open, through courts of law, by education, by proving
myself to be worthy of equal treatment and consideration. I
am firm in my belief that American sportsmanship and atti-
tude of fair play will judge citizenship and patriotism on
the basis of action and achievement, and not on the basis of
physical characteristics.
   "Because I believe in America, and I trust she believes in
me, and because I have received innumerable benefits from her,
I pledge myself to do honor to her at all times and in all
places; to support her constitution; to obey her laws; to
respect her flag; to defend her against all enemies, foreign
or domestic; to actively assume my duties and obligations as
                     1969
Res. Ch. 20]                REGULAR SESSION                     3523

a citizen, cheerfully and without any reservations whatsoever,
in the hope that I may become a better American in a greater
America.''; now, therefore, be it
   Eesolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Members of the Legisla-
ture join in commemorating the centennial celebration of
Japanese immigration to the United States and express the
deep appreciation of all the citizens of California for the im-
mense and invaluable contributions made by Japanese-Ameri-
cans to the rich cultural heritage of this state and of Amer-
ica ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitable prepared copy of this resolution to the Japanese-
American Citizens League.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 19
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 9—-Relative to proclaiming
             February 9-15 as Electrical Week.
           [Filed -with Secretary of State January 24, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, Electricity and the electrical industry contribute
substantially to the social and economic strength and growth
of California; and
   WHEREAS, Through extensive research and continuing im-
provements the electrical industry helps lead the way to human
betterment and the prosperity of California; and
   WHEREAS, I t is fitting that a period of time be set aside to
direct attention to the importance of public services performed
by electricity and to encourage safe and efficient use of elec-
tricity and electrical equipment; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Governor
to proclaim the week of February 9-15, 1969, as Electrical
"Week and urge all the citizens to participate in this significant
occasion; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy of this resolution to Mr. William E. Goetze, President of
the Electric and Gas Industries Association.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 20
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 11—Approving         amendments
  to the Charter of the County of Sacramento, State of Cali-
  fornia, ratified by the qualified electors of the county at an
  election held therein on the fifth day of November, 1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 24, 1969.]
3524               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ R e s Qh. 20

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of amendments to the Charter
of the County of Sacramento, State of California, as herein-
after set forth in the certificate of the chairman and clerk of
the board of supervisors of the county, as follows:
       CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER OF THE
          COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

State of California  )
County of Sacramento )
   We, Leslie E. Wood, Chairman of the Board of Super-
visors of the County of Sacramento, State of California, and
Earl D. Jack, Clerk of said Board of Supervisors, do hereby
certify and declare as follows:
   That the County of Sacramento at all times herein men-
tioned has been and now is a body politic of the State of Cali-
fornia, and is now and has been since the 1st day of July,
1933, organized and acting under and by virtue of a Charter
adopted under and by virtue of Section 1\ of Article X I of
the Constitution of the State of California, which Charter was
duly ratified by the qualified electors of said County at an
election held for that purpose on the 27th day of April, 1933,
and subsequently approved by the Legislature of the State of
California, and filed with the Secretary of State of the State
of California, on the 11th day of May, 1933.
   That the Board of Supervisors of said County, pursuant to
the provisions of Section 1\ of Article X I of said Constitution,
did by Eesolution adopted the 11th day of September, 1968,
duly propose to the qualified electors of said County of Sacra-
mento amendments to the Charter of said County, designated
as proposed County Charter Amendments B, C, D, E, P, G, H,
and I and ordered that said proposed amendments be sub-
mitted to the said qualified electors of said County at a special
election to be held on the 5th day of November, 1968.
   That said amendments so proposed were published ten times
on the following dates, to wit: September 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 27, and 28, 1968, in The Sacramento Union, a daily
newspaper of general circulation in said County, printed, pub-
lished and circulated in said County of Sacramento.
   That said Board of Supervisors of said County did, by
Ordinance designated as Ordinance No. 1007, which was duly
adopted on the 11th day of September, 1968, order the holding
of a special county election on the 5th day of November, 1968,
which said Ordinance was published for five times in The
Sacramento Union, a daily newspaper, printed, published and
circulated in said County, on the following dates, to wit: Sep-
tember 16,17,18,19 and 20,1968.
   That said special election was held in said County of Sacra-
mento on the 5th day of November, 1968, which said day was
                    19M
Res. Ch. 20]              REGULAR SESSION                  3525

not less than thirty days nor more than sixty days after said
proposed amendments to said County Charter had been pub-
lished for ten times in The Sacramento Union.
   That the Board of Supervisors of said County of Sacra-
mento did, in the manner provided by law, duly and regularly
canvass the returns of said election, and did duly declare the
result of said special election, as determined from the canvass
of the returns thereof.
   That at said special election held on the 5th day of Novem-
ber, 1968, said proposed County Charter Amendments B, C,
D, B, F , G, H, and I were ratified by a majority of the elec-
tors of said County voting thereon.
   That the proposed Amendments, were set forth in said Reso-
lution and said Ordinance as follows:

               Proposed Charter Amendment B
  That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by amending Section 133 to read as follows:
   Section 63. In fixing compensation the Board of Super-
visors shall at least annually, by ordinance, provide in each
instance for the payment of not less than the prevailing rate
for comparable service in other employment whenever such
prevailing rate can be ascertained in the Sacramento area.

               Proposed Charter Amendment C
   That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by amending Section 33 and adding Subdivision (Z) to Sub-
division (3) of Section 45-A as follows:
   Amend Section 33 to read:
   Section 33. Method of Suspension and Removal of Appoint-
ive Officers. Every appointive officer appointed by the Board
of Supervisors may be suspended or removed by the Board of
Supervisors. Every appointive officer appointed by the County
Executive may be suspended or removed by him, except that
any suspension or removal of such officer must first be con-
firmed by the Board of Supervisors. If the officer is a p a r t
of the classified service, the suspension or removal shall be in
accordance with Section 45-A and the rules of the Civil Service
Commission which are applicable to the classified service.
   Add Subdivision (I) to Subdivision (3) of Section 45-A to
read:
   (I) All department heads appointed after the effective date
of this Amendment. As used in this Charter, "department
head" means all County officers and all other full-time officials
personally responsible for directing all activities of a major
organizational unit of County government which is recognized
as a County department. The Board of Supervisors may by
ordinance include any department head in the classified service.
3526               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [R e g - Q l . 20

                Proposed Charter Amendment D
  That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by amending Subdivision (a) of Subdivision (3) of Section
45-A to read:
   (a) All officers elected by the people, the County Executive,
the Chief Deputy District Attorney, the Chief Deputy Audi-
tor, the Undersheriff, the Assistant County Assessor and one
assistant to each member of the Board of Supervisors.

                Proposed Charter Amendment B
   That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by amending Subdivision (2) of Section 45-A to read:
   (2) Each Commissioner shall receive such compensation as
is fixed by ordinance adopted by the Board of Supervisors.
The Commission shall appoint a Chief Examiner, and such
other employees as it may deem necessary, subject to the ap-
proval of the County Executive. The Chief Examiner shall
act as Secretary.

                Proposed Charter Amendment F
   That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by amending Subdivision (c) of Subdivision (3) of Section
45-A to read:
   (c) To provide a period of probation not to exceed twelve
 (12) months before appointment or promotion is made com-
plete, during which period a probationer may be rejected.
Probationary periods of more than six (6) months shall not be
established unless the Commission finds that a longer proba-
tionary period is appropriate on the basis of the cycle of work
performed or because the duration of required training is
such that it is not possible to adequately evaluate employee
performance within a six (6) month period.

                Proposed Charter Amendment G
   That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by amending Section 61 to read :
   Section 61. No person in the classified or unclassified serv-
ice, or seeking admission thereto shall be appointed, reduced,
removed, or in any way favored or discriminated against be-
cause of his race, color, creed, sex, national origin or political
affiliation. The provisions of this section are not intended to
prevent the establishment of special limited programs for the
employment of economically, socially, physically or mentally
deprived persons.

               Proposed Charter Amendment H
  That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by adding thereto Section 15-A to read:
                    1969
Res. Ch. 20]               REGULAR SESSION                 3527

   Section 15-A. When the County assumes and discharges by
County officers and employees functions previously performed
by private contractors or public utilities, the Board of Super-
visors by ordinance, and notwithstanding any other provision
of this Charter, may provide for the blanketing into County
Civil Service without examination of any or all officers or
employees who have been performing such functions for such
private contractors or public utilities, and for the terms and
conditions upon which such persons are to be employed.

               Proposed Charter Amendment I
   That the Charter of the County of Sacramento be amended
by repealing the third paragraph of Subdivision (k) of Sub-
division (3) of Section 45-A and repealing Section 84 as
follows:
   Repeal the third paragraph of Subdivision (k) of Subdivi-
sion (3) of Section 45-A.
   Repeal Section 84.
   That said Charter Amendments B, C, D, B, F , G, H, and I
so ratified by the electors of said County of Sacramento, are
now submitted to the Legislature of the State of California, for
approval or rejection as a whole, without power of alteration
or amendment, pursuant to the provisions of said Section 1\
of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California,
and are and shall, if so approved by said Legislature, be in
the words and figures as set forth above.
   That as to said Amendments to the Charter of the County
of Sacramento, State of California, this Certificate shall be
taken as a full and complete certification as to the regularity
of all proceedings had and done in connection therewith.

   We further certify that the foregoing proposed and ratified
amendments to the Charter of said County of Sacramento,
submitted to the electors of said County at the General State
Election held on the 11th day of November, 1968, have been
compared by us, and each of us, with the proposed amend-
ments set forth in the said Resolution adopted by said Board
of Supervisors as hereinbefore set forth, and that the foregoing
is a full, true, and exact copy thereof, and we further certify
that the facts set forth herein are true.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the same to be authenticated by the seal of said Board
of Supervisors of the County of Sacramento, this 23rd day of
December, 1968.
                    LESLIE B. WOOD
   (SEAL)           Chairman of the Board of Supervisors
                      of Sacramento County, California
3528                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 21

 Attest: EARL D. JACK
         Clerk of the Board of
           Supervisors of the County
           of Sacramento, State of California
and
   WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, have been and
now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 7-| of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendments to the Charter of the County of Sacra-
mento, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by, the electors
of the county, as hereinbefore fully set forth, are hereby ap-
proved as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for and
as amendments to, and as part of the Charter of the County of
Sacramento.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 21
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 5—Approving a certain pro-
  posed nevj Charter of the City of Oakland, a municipal cor-
  poration in the County of Alameda, State of California,
  voted for and ratified by the qualified electors of said city
  at a special municipal election held therein on the fifth day
  of November, 1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 28, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had in accord-
ance with all applicable law for the proposal, adoption and
ratification of a certain new Charter of the City of Oakland,
a municipal corporation in the County of Alameda, State of
California, as set out in the certificate of the mayor and city
clerk of said city, as follows, to wit:

State of California ]
County of Alameda J- ss.
City of Oakland     J

   We, the undersigned, John H. Reading, Mayor of the City
of Oakland, State of California, and Gladys H. Murphy,
City Clerk of said City, do hereby certify and declare as fol-
lows:
   That the City of Oakland, a municipal corporation in the
County of Alameda, State of California, now is and at all
times herein mentioned was a city containing a population
                   19es
Res. Ch. 21]              REGULAR SESSION                3529

of more than three thousand five hundred inhabitants, and
has been ever since the first day of July, 1911, and is now,
organized, existing and acting under a Freeholders' Charter,
adopted under and by virtue of Section 8 of Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California, which charter was
duly ratified by a majority of the qualified electors of said
City at an election held for that purpose on the eighth day
of December, 1910, and approved by the Legislature of the
State of California, by Senate Concurrent Resolution filed
with the Secretary of State on the fifteenth day of February,
1911 (Statutes of 1911, p. 1551).
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
Council of the City of Oakland, being the legislative body of
said City, caused to be framed a proposed new Charter of the
City of Oakland, and on its own motion by its Resolution No.
49606 C.M.S. passed August 29, 1968, duly and regularly
proposed and submitted to the qualified electors of said City
a certain proposal designated as Proposition ( J ) for adoption
of the proposed new Charter of said City together with three
certain alternative proposals designed as Propositions (K),
(L) and (M), to be voted upon by said qualified electors at a
special municipal election called and held for that purpose in
said City on the 5th day of November, 1968. That said special
election was duly and regularly called, authorized and pro-
vided for by said Council of said City of Oakland by said
aforementioned Resolution No. 49606 C.M.S., and that by said
Resolution said Council consolidated said special municipal
election with the General Election held in said City on the
5th day of November, 1968.
    That said consolidated special municipal election was duly
and regularly held in said City as required by law and in
accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution
of the State of California and the Charter of the City of Oak-
land, and after due notice given and published, with the said
 General Election on the 5th day of November, 1968, which
said day was not less than forty nor more than sixty days
after the completion of the publication of the aforementioned
proposed new Charter and alternative propositions in the
 "Oakland Tribune," the official newspaper of said City.
    That such proposed new Charter and alternative proposi-
 tions were published on the 26th day of September, 1968 in the
 "Oakland Tribune," a daily newspaper of general circulation
 published in said City of Oakland and the official newspaper
 of said City, and in each edition, thereof, during the day of
 publication.
    That copies of said proposed new Charter and alternative
 propositions were printed in convenient pamphlet form, and
 in type of not less than 10-point, and a copy thereof was
 mailed to each of the qualified electors in said City, and an
 advertisement that copies thereof could be had upon applica-
3530               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 21

 tion therefor at the office of the City Clerk of the City of
  Oakland was published in said "Oakland Tribune," a news-
 paper of general circulation published in said City, on the
  26th day of September, 1968, and on each day thereafter to
 and including the 5th day of November, 1968, the date of said
  election.
     That the Council of said City framed synopses of said pro-
 posed new Charter and Alternative propositions and, on Octo-
 ber 14 and 21, 1968 caused a notice containing said synopses to
 be published in the "Oakland Tribune," a newspaper of gen-
 eral circulation published and circulated daily in the City.
     That the Council of said City provided for the formulation
 and printing of statements not exceeding five hundred words
 in length, descriptive of and explaining the nature or purpose
 of said proposed new Charter of said City and said alternative
 propositions, and provided for the submission, selection and
 printing of arguments for and against each of said Proposi-
 tions; that a copy of each of said printed statements and
 arguments was mailed and distributed by the City Clerk of
 said City of Oakland to each voter of the City of Oakland, in
 connection with the sample ballots and the aforementioned
 printed copies of said proposed new Charter and alternative
 propositions.
    That as to each of the said proposed new Charter of the
 City of Oakland hereinafter set forth, and said alternative
 propositions, this certificate shall be taken as a full and com-
 plete certification as to the regularity of all proceedings had
 and done in connection therewith, and that Section 8 of Article
 X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the Charter
 of the City of Oakland, and all other provisions of law ap-
 plicable thereto have been fully conformed to and complied
with.
    That in accordance with the provisions of law applicable
thereto, and with the authorization and direction of the Board
 of Supervisors of the County of Alameda, State of California,
set forth in its Eesolution No. 126783, the Clerk of the County
of Alameda, State of California, did duly and regularly can-
vass the votes cast at said consolidated election, and at said
special municipal election, and did determine the result of said
special municipal election to be that a majority of the qualified
electors of said City voting on the proposed new Charter here-
inafter set forth and designated as Proposition ( J ) had voted
for and adopted said Proposition ( J ) , and that a majority of
the qualified electors of said City voting on Propositions (K),
 (L) and (M), had voted against and defeated said proposi-
tions and each of them.
    That the proposed new Charter of the City of Oakland,
which was so ratified by a majority of the electors of said City,
is in words and figures as follows:
                    1969
Res. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                   3531

     PBOPOSED REVISED CHARTER OF THE CITY OF OAKLAND

  We, the people of the City of Oakland, the State of Cali-
fornia, do ordain and establish this Charter as the funda-
mental law of the City, under the Constitution of the State
of California.
                         Article I
               Powers and Form of Government
   Section 100. Name. The municipal corporation now ex-
isting and known as the City of Oakland shall remain and
continue a body politic and corporate in name and fact by
the name of the City of Oakland, and by such name shall
have perpetual succession.
   Section 101. Boundaries. The boundaries of the City of
 Oakland, as they exist on the effective date of this Charter,
shall continue until changed in the manner authorized by law.
   Section 102. Rights in Succession. The City of Oakland,
hereinafter termed the City, shall have, exercise, and enjoy
all the rights, immunities, powers, benefits, privileges and
franchises now possessed, enjoyed, owned or held by it.
   Section 103. Continuance of Laws. All lawful ordinances,
resolutions, rules and regulations or portions thereof now in
force and not in conflict or inconsistent herewith are con-
tinued in force until they have been duly repealed or amended.
   Section 104. Continuance of Officers and Employees. All
officers and employees of the City now serving shall continue
in their offices or employments until removed or replaced in
the manner prescribed by the authority of this Charter.
   Section 105. Transfer of Records and Property. The
transfer of any function from one department to another by
this Charter or by any lawful ordinance or administrative
authority also authorizes the corresponding transfer of all rec-
ords, property, and equipment necessary to such function.
   Section 106. General Powers. The City shall have the
right and power to make and enforce all laws and regulations
in respect to municipal affairs, subject only to the restrictions
and limitations provided in this Charter; provided, that noth-
ing herein shall be construed to prevent or restrict the City
from exercising or consenting to, and the City is hereby au-
thorized to exercise, any and all the rights, powers and privi-
leges heretofore or hereafter granted or prescribed by the gen-
eral laws of the State including those specifically applicable
to general law cities; provided, also, that where the general
laws of the State provide a procedure for the carrying out and
the enforcement of any rights or powers belonging to the
City, said procedure shall control and be followed unless a
different procedure shall have been provided in the Charter
or by ordinance.
   It is the intention of the people in adopting this section to
take advantage of the provisions of Section 6 of Article X I of
3532               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 21

the Constitution of the State of California giving cities Home
Rule as to municipal affairs.
  Section 107. Form of Government. The government pro-
vided by this Charter shall be known as the Council-Manager
form of government.
                           Article I I
                     The Council and Mayor
    Section 200. Composition of the Council. The Council
 shall consist of eight Councilmen, nominated and elected as
hereinafter provided, and the Mayor.
   Section 201. Qualifications. No person shall be eligible
for or continue to hold the office of Councilman or Mayor,
either by election or appointment, unless he is a citizen of the
United States, a qualified elector, a resident for at least four
years of the City or of a territory lawfully annexed or con-
solidated, and a resident of the district from which he may be
 a candidate for at least one year immediately next preceding
his nomination or appointment.
    Section 202. Compensation. The members of the Council,
 other than the Mayor, shall each receive the compensation
heretofore provided by Charter, until changed by Charter
amendment or by ordinance; provided that any such com-
pensation fixed by ordinance shall not exceed the amount
which the city council of a general law city having no greater
population than the City can prescribe under the provisions
of state law as compensation for its councilmen.
   Section 203. Nomination and Election of Councilmen.
Seven Councilmen shall be nominated from districts and one
shall be nominated at large, and all shall be elected by the
qualified electors of the City at large. The districts shall be as
they exist upon the taking effect of this section, until revised
by ordinance. In the year 1972 and every six years thereafter,
and whenever any substantial territory is annexed to or con-
solidated with the City, the Council shall form new districts,
not exceeding seven. Districts shall be composed of contiguous
territory, as equal as possible in registered voters, and as geo-
graphically compact as practicable. No change in the bound-
ary of a district shall operate to exclude an incumbent from
office before the expiration of the term for which he was
elected or appointed.
   Section 204. Term of Office, Council. The Councilmen
and the Mayor shall be elected to a term of four years begin-
ning at 11:00 a.m. on the first day of July following their
election. The Councilmen and the Mayor serving at the adop-
tion of this section shall continue to serve the terms to which
they were elected or appointed.
   Section 205. Vacancies: Filling Of. Any vacancy occur-
ring in the office of Councilman or Mayor shall be filled by
appointment by the majority vote of the remaining members
of the Council j provided, that if two or less members remain,
                     19M
Ees. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                   3533

 the appointment of members of the Council shall be made by
 the majority vote of a body consisting of the remaining mem-
 bers and the members of the Alameda County Board of Super-
 visors representing districts including a part of the City. I n
 the event such body is unable to or fails within a period of
 five days to take such action, appointment shall be made by
 the Governor of California. An appointee to the office of
 Councilman or Mayor for the balance of an unexpired term
 shall hold office until the next General Municipal Election.
    Section 206. Vacancy; What Constitutes. An office of
 Councilman or Mayor shall be declared vacant by the Council
 when the person elected or appointed thereto fails to qualify
 within ten days after his term is to begin, dies, resigns, ceases
 to be a resident of the City or of the district from which he
 was nominated, absents himself continuously from the City
 for a period of more than thirty days without permission
from the Council, absents himself from any ten consecutive
 regular meetings except on account of his own illness or when
 absent from the City by permission of the Council, is con-
victed of a felony, is judicially determined to be an incom-
petent, is permanently so disabled as to be unable to perform
the duties of his office, forfeits his office under any provision
of this Charter, or is removed from office by judicial pro-
cedure. A finding of disability shall require the affirmative vote
of at least six members of the the Council after considering
competent medical evidence bearing on the physical or mental
capability of the Councilman or Mayor.
    Section 207. Powers of the Council. The Council shall be
the governing body of the City. It shall exercise the corporate
powers of the City and, subject to the expressed limitations
of this Charter, it shall be vested with all powers of legisla-
tion in municipal affairs adequate to provide a complete sys-
tem of local government consistent with the Constitution of
the State of California. It shall have no administrative pow-
ers. The Council shall fix the compensation of all City em-
ployees, officers and officials except as otherwise provided by
this Charter.
   Section 208. Meetings of the Council. At 11:00 a.m. on
the first day of July following each General Municipal Elec-
tion, the Council shall meet at the established Council meeting
place, at which time and place the newly elected members of
the Council shall assume the duties of their office; and at such
meeting, and at the first meeting in July of even-numbered
years, the Council shall elect a Vice-Mayor from among its
members to serve for a one year term. Thereafter the Council
shall meet regularly at the time and place fixed by resolution.
Special meetings may be held at the regular place of meeting
and shall be called, and notice thereof given, by the City Clerk
upon the written request of the Mayor, the City Manager or
three members of the Council and such notice shall state the
special subject to be considered at the special meeting; and no
3534              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Res. Ch. 21

other subject shall be there considered. Regular or special
meetings may be held at places other than the regular meeting
place only in an emergency in which the regular meeting
place is untenantable, or for some purpose of public conven-
ience, upon the posting of a public notice at the regular meet-
ing place that the Council is meeting elsewhere, to be desig-
nated on the notice.
    Section 209. Quorum. Five members of the Council shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
lesser number may adjourn.
    Section 210. Council Action. The Council shall provide
by resolution for the order of business and the rules of pro-
cedure for the conduct of Council meetings. The Council shall
act by ordinance or resolution or motion. The " a y e s " and
" n o e s " shall be taken on the passage of all ordinances and
resolutions and entered upon the journal of the Council's
proceedings. Each proposed ordinance or resolution shall be
introduced in written or printed form. The affirmative vote
of five members of the Council shall be required to adopt
any ordinance or resolution, except as otherwise provided by
this Charter or by general law.
    Section 211. Enactment of Ordinances. In addition to
such other action of the Council as is required by statute or
by this Charter to be by ordinance, every act of the Council
establishing a penalty or granting a franchise shall be by
ordinance. The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be:
' ' The Council of the City of Oakland does ordain as follows:''.
    Section 212. Adoption and Amendment of Ordinances.
Except for emergency ordinances, no ordinance shall be
adopted by the Council on the day of its introduction, nor
within five days thereafter, nor except at a regular or ad-
journed regular or special meeting. If an ordinance is altered
after its introduction (except for the correction of typograph-
ical or clerical errors), it shall not be adopted except at a
regular or adjourned regular or special meeting held not less
than five days after the date of such alteration. Any section
or subsection of an ordinance may be amended solely by the
reenactment of such section or subsection at length as
amended.
    Section 213. Emergency Ordinances. Any ordinance de-
clared by the Council to be necessary for preserving the public
peace, health, or safety in an emergency, and containing a
statement of the reasons constituting such necessity, may be
introduced and adopted at the same meeting if passed by the
affirmative vote of at least six members. Appropriations to
meet an urgent need for public expenditure to protect the
public health, safety, or welfare may be made as an emer-
gency ordinance.
    Section 214. Publication. Before final adoption of an or-
dinance, its title, a digest thereof, a notice showing the vote
on its introduction and the date, time, and place of hearing on
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                  3535

its final adoption, and notice that three full copies thereof are
available for use and examination by the public in the office
 of the City Clerk, shall be published once in the official news-
paper of the City at least three days before said hearing date.
Notice of the adoption of an emergency ordinance, the vote
thereon, its title, and a digest thereof shall be similarly pub-
lished once within three days after its adoption. The notices
and digests shall be prepared by the City Attorney.
   Section 215. Codification. The duly adopted and effective
ordinances of the City may be compiled and arranged as
comprehensive codes, which may be adopted by reference by
the passage of an ordinance for such purpose.
   Section 216. Effective Date of Ordinance. An ordinance
receiving upon final adoption the affirmative vote of at least
six members of the Council shall be effective immediately,
unless a later date is specified therein. All other ordinances,
unless a different date is required by this Charter, shall be
effective upon the seventh day after final adoption; provided,
that within three days after said date of final adoption, the
Mayor may file in the office of the City Clerk written notice
to the Council that he has suspended the taking effect of the
ordinance, stating in said notice the reason or reasons for his
action, which notice the City Clerk shall forthwith deliver to
the members of the Council. Such notification shall automat-
ically cause the reconsideration of the ordinance by the Coun-
cil at its regular meeting next following the sixth day after
the aforesaid final adoption of the ordinance. If, upon recon-
sideration, the ordinance is again approved by the affirmative
vote of at least five members of the Council it shall take effect
immediately, and if not so approved, it shall be ineffective.
   Section 217. Penalty for Violation of Ordinances. The
Council may make the violation of its ordinances a misde-
meanor, which may be prosecuted in the name of the People
of the State of California or may be redressed by civil action,
and may prescribe punishment for such violations by a fine
not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed one
year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   Section 218. The Mayor. The Mayor shall be nominated
and elected from the City at large and shall receive an an-
nual salary of $7,500.00, payable in equal monthly install-
ments, and without any additional compensation or fees pro-
vided for by Section 202 of this Charter.
   Section 219. Duties of the Mayor. The Mayor shall be
the chief elective officer of the City, responsible for providing
leadership and taking issues to the people and marshalling
public interest in and support for municipal activity. He
shall recommend to the Council such legislation as he deems
necessary and shall encourage programs for the physical,
economic, social and cultural development of the City. He
shall preside over meetings of the Council, shall be the cere-
monial head of the City, and shall represent the City in in-
3536              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 21

ter-governmental relations as directed by the Council. The
Mayor shall have no administrative authority, it being the
intent of this Charter that the Mayor shall provide commu-
nity leadership, while administrative responsibilities are as-
signed to the City Manager.
   Section 220. Duties of Vice-Mayor. In the absence or
temporary disability of the Mayor, the Vice-Mayor shall per-
form the duties of the office.
   Section 221. Non-interference. Except for the purpose of
inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal with the ad-
ministrative service for which the City Manager and other
appointed or elected officers are responsible, solely through the
City Manager or such other officers, and neither the Council
nor any member shall give orders to any subordinate of the
City under the jurisdiction of the City Manager or such other
officers, either publicly or privately; nor shall they attempt to
coerce or influence the City Manager or such other officers, in
respect to any contract, purchase of any supplies or any other
administrative action; nor in any manner direct or request the
appointment of any person to or his removal from office by
the City Manager, or any of his subordinates, or such other
officers, nor in any manner take part in the appointment or
removal of officers or employees in the administrative service
of the City. Violation of the provisions of this section by a
member of the Council shall be a misdemeanor, conviction of
which shall immediately forfeit the office of the convicted
member.
   Section 222. Ordinance, "When Eequired. In addition to
other actions required by law or by specific provision of this
 Charter to be done by ordinance, those actions of the Council
shall be by ordinance which:
   1) Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish,
alter or abolish any City department, office or agency as au-
thorized in Article V of this Charter.
   2) Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule
or regulation for violation of which a fine or other penalty
is imposed.
   3) Levy taxes except as otherwise provided in this Charter
with respect to the property tax levied by adoption of the
budget.
   4) Eegulate the rates charged for its services by a public
utility.
   5) Authorize the borrowing of money except as otherwise
provided in Section 712 of this Charter.
   6) Convey or lease, or authorize the conveyance or lease for
longer than one year, of any real property of the City, or any
interest therein, or the acquisition of real property, the pur-
chase price of which is more than Five Thousand Dollars
 ($5,000.00).
   7) Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted.
                    1969
Res Ch 21]                 REGULAR SESSION                  3537

   Provided, acts other than those referred to hereinabove un-
der this section, or other than may be specifically otherwise
provided for in other sections of this Charter, may be done
either by ordinance or by resolution.

                            Article III
                           City Officers
   Section 300. Designation as Officer. In addition to the
Councilmen and the Mayor, the officers of the City shall be
the City Manager, the City Attorney, the City Clerk, the City
Auditor, and such department heads, members of boards or
commissions and executive officers of such boards and com-
missions as may be so designated by ordinance. The City Man-
ager and the City Attorney may be hired by contract, for a
term not to exceed seven years, notwithstanding the appointive
and removal authority otherwise provided herein for the
Council.
   Section 301. City Attorney. The City Attorney shall be
appointed by the Council, which may at its pleasure remove
him from office or reduce his salary in the same manner and
subject to the same conditions as are prescribed for such
actions affecting the City Manager. The City Attorney shall
advise all officers, boards, commissions, and other agencies of
the City on legal matters referred to him and shall render
written legal opinions when the same are requested in writing
by a member of the Council or the City Manager or any other
officer, board or commission of the City. He shall draft such
ordinances, resolutions, contracts and other legal documents as
directed by the Council or requested by the City Manager or
any official board or commission of the City. He shall act as
counsel in behalf of the City or any of its officers, boards,
commissions, or other agencies in litigation involving any of
them in their official capacity. He shall pass on the form and
legality of all contracts of the City before the same are exe-
cuted. He shall not settle or dismiss any litigation brought for
the City nor settle any litigation brought against the City
which may be under his control unless upon his written recom-
mendation he is authorized to do so by the Council. He shall
administer the office of City Attorney, and shall have the power
to appoint, discipline and remove all officers and employees of
his office subject to the provisions of Article VIII of this
Charter. The Council may empower the City Attorney, at his
request and without regard to the provisions of Article VIII,
to employ special legal counsel, and he shall have the power to
employ appraisers, engineers and other technical and expert
services necessary for the handling of any pending or pro-
posed litigation, proceeding or other legal matter. Upon the
City Attorney's recommendation and the approval of the
Council, when he has a conflict of interest in litigation in-
volving another officer of the City in his official capacity, such
other officer may retain special legal counsel at City expense.
3538               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [B, e 8 . Q j . 21

   Section 302. City Clerk. The City Clerk shall be ap-
pointed or discharged by the City Manager subject to con-
firmation by the Council. He shall be the Clerk of the Council
and keep an accurate public record of all ordinances, resolu-
tions and motions, shall have custody of the official seal and all
official records committed to his care, make affidavits and ad-
minister oaths without charge in matters affecting the business
of the City, conduct elections, and perform the other duties
of a City Clerk under general law where not inconsistent with
this Charter or the ordinances of the City.
   Section 303. City Auditor. The City Auditor shall be
nominated and elected in the same manner, for the same term,
and at the same election, as the Mayor. The Auditor-Controller
serving at the adoption of this Section shall continue to serve
the term to which he was elected. To be eligible to the office a
person must be a citizen of the United States, a qualified
elector of the State of California, and shall have been a resi-
dent of the City for four years next preceding his nomination.
The salary of the office shall be set by the Council and may
not be reduced during the City Auditor's term of office, except
as a part of a general reduction of salaries for all officers and
employees in the same amount or proportion. The City Auditor
shall have the power and it shall be his duty to audit the
books, accounts, money and securities of all departments and
agencies of the City and such other matters as the Council
may request; to report to the Council periodically the results
of such audits and to advise and make recommendations to the
City Manager regarding accounting forms design, fiscal and
statistical reports and the methods or procedures for maintain-
ing the accounts and accounting system throughout all de-
partments, offices and agencies of the City. The City Auditor
shall report to the Council instances of noncompliance with
accepted accounting principles where recommendations for
compliance have not been implemented by the City Manager
after reasonable time and opportunity. He shall be represented
in all legal matters by the City Attorney except as provided
otherwise in Section 301.
   Section 304. Board of Education. The Board of Educa-
tion shall consist of seven School Directors elected from the
City at large for a term of four years. School Directors shall
be elected at the times and in the manner in this Charter
provided for members of the Council and shall be required to
have the same qualifications. The terms of School Directors
holding office when this Section becomes effective shall not be
affected. At each Municipal Election following the effective
date of this Section, either three or four School Directors of
said Board, as the case may be, shall be elected to fill the
vacancies caused by the expiration of such terms.
   Candidates for School Director shall be designated on all
official election ballots as candidates for School Director No.
1, or No. 2, or No. 3, or No. 4, or No. 5, or No. 6, or No. 7
                    1969
Res. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                  3539

 (said numbers to be printed after the designating title "School
Director," there being as many numbers from 1 up as there
are School Directors to be elected) in accordance with the
declarations of candidacy which said candidates shall have
filed with the City Clerk. Such numerical designation on the
ballot shall have no significance whatever after election and
qualification of such School Director, but shall fix the status
of each such numerically designated office as a separate office
for the purpose of nomination and election thereto.
   The provisions of the Education Code of the State of Cali-
fornia shall apply as to matters not provided for in this Char-
ter.
   Section 305. Officers Prohibited Political Activity. The
City Manager and the City Attorney shall not participate in
municipal political activities or elections for municipal office,
nor in any other political activities which are prohibited for
city employees by state law.

                           Article IV
                      The City Manager
   Section 400. Appointment. The Council shall appoint a
City Manager who shall be the chief executive officer of the
City. He shall be a person of demonstrated administrative
ability with experience in a responsible, important executive
capacity and shall be chosen by the Council solely on the
basis of his executive and administrative qualifications. No
member of the Council shall, during the term for which lie is
elected or appointed, or for one year thereafter, be chosen as
City Manager.
   Section 401. Compensation and Tenure. The City Man-
ager shall receive the salary fixed by the Council. He shall be
appointed for an indefinite term and shall be removable only
upon the adoption of an ordinance by the affirmative vote of
at least five members of the Council. He shall, upon demand,
be given a written statement of the reasons for his proposed
removal and the right to be heard publicly at a meeting of the
Council prior to the final vote on the ordinance for his re-
moval, but pending such hearing and action the Council may
suspend him from office. The Council may not reduce the sal-
ary of the City Manager except upon the adoption of an
ordinance and like opportunity to be heard. The action of the
Council in suspending or removing the City Manager or re-
ducing his salary shall be final.
  Section 402. Acting City Manager. The City Manager
shall designate two or more of his assistants or department
heads, in the sequence in which they are to serve, as Acting
City Manager to serve as City Manager in the temporary ab-
sence or disability of the City Manager.
  Section 403. Powers of Appointment and Removal. The
City Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the
3540               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             [Res. Ch. 21

proper and efficient administration of all affairs of the City
under his jurisdiction, and shall, subject to the provisions of
Article V I I I of this Charter and except as otherwise provided
in this Charter, have the power to appoint, assign, re-assign,
discipline and remove all directors or heads of departments
and all employees under his jurisdiction. He may delegate to
directors or other department heads responsible to him the
authority to appoint, discipline and remove subordinate em-
ployees, subject to the provisions of Article V I I I of this Char-
ter.
   Section 404. Duties. The City Manager shall have the
power and it shall be his duty:
   a. To execute and enforce all laws and ordinances and poli-
cies of the Council and to administer the affairs of the City.
   b. To attend all meetings of the Council, and its committees,
unless excused, and such meetings of boards and commissions
as he chooses or which he is directed to attend by the Council,
and to participate in discussions at such meetings.
   c. To recommend to the Council such measures and ordi-
nances as he may deem necessary or expedient and to make
such other recommendations to the Council concerning the
affairs of the City as he finds desirable.
   d. To investigate affairs of the City under his supervision,
or any franchise or contract for the proper performance of
any obligation running to the City within his jurisdiction.
   e. To control and administer the financial affairs of the
 City. He may appoint a Director of Finance to act under
his direction.
   f. To prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council.
   g. To prepare or cause to be prepared the plans, specifica-
tions, and contracts for work which the Council may order.
   h. To supervise the purchasing of materials and supplies
and to make recommendations to the Council in connection
with the awarding of public contracts and to' see that all
City contracts under his direction or that of the Council are
faithfully performed.
   i. To prepare and submit to the Council such reports as it
may require.
   j . To keep the Council at all times fully advised as to the
financial condition and needs of the City.
   k. To prescribe such general rules and regulations as he
may deem necessary or expedient to the general conduct of
the administrative departments under his jurisdiction.
   1. "When directed by the Council, to represent the City in
its intergovernmental relations and to negotiate contracts for
joint governmental actions, subject to Council approval.
   m. To devote his entire time to the duties and interests of
the City.
   n. To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
this Charter or by ordinance or resolution.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                 3541

                             Article V
                 Administrative Organization
   Section 500. Administrative       Organization    Authorized.
The Council shall by ordinance provide the form of organiza-
tion through which the functions of the City under the juris-
diction of the City Manager are to be administered. Any
combination of authorized duties, powers and functions which
in the judgment of the Council will provide the most efficient
and economical service possible, consistent with the public
interest and in keeping with accepted principles of municipal
administration, may be authorized by such ordinance. All
departments or other administrative agencies so created shall
be administered by the City Manager or by a department
head or other officer appointed by and responsible to him.
   Section 501. Boards and Commissions. The Council may
create by ordinance such operational, advisory, appellate or
rule-making boards and commissions as may be required for
the proper operation of any function or agency of the City
and prescribe their function, duties, powers, jurisdiction and
the number of board and commission members, their terms,
compensation and reimbursement for expenses, if any, sub-
ject to the provisions of this Article. Members of boards and
commissions shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to con-
firmation by the affirmative vote of five members of the Coun-
cil and may be removed for cause, after hearing, by the
affirmative vote of at least six members of the Council. Vacan-
cies shall be filled for any unexpired term in the same manner
as the original appointments were made.
   Section 502. Continuation. The departments, agencies,
boards and commissions heretofore created by prior Charter,
ordinance or administrative order, other than those provided
for in Articles III, IV, VI, and V I I I of this Charter, may be
modified or discontinued by ordinance adopted pursuant to
this Article and are hereby continued until so modified or
 discontinued.
                            Article VI
                           Port of Oakland
   Section 600. Establishment of a Port Department. To
promote and more definitely insure the comprehensive and
adequate development of the Port of Oakland through con-
tinuity of control, management and operation, there is hereby
established a department of the City of Oakland known as the
'' Port Department''.
   Section 601. Board of Port Commissioners. The exclusive
control and management of the Port Department is hereby
vested in the Board of Port Commissioners, which shall be
composed of seven (7) members who shall be appointed by the
Council, upon nomination by the Mayor.
3542              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 21

   No person shall be appointed as, or continue to hold office
as, a member of the Board who is not at the time of his ap-
pointment, and has not been continuously for four (4) years
immediately preceding his appointment, and who shall not con-
tinue to be during his term, a bona fide resident of the City of
Oakland.
   The members of the Board shall serve without salary or
compensation.
   Section 602. Organization, Terms of Office. The Board of
Port Commissioners shall consist of seven (7) members nomi-
nated by the Mayor and appointed by the Council for a term
of four (4) years. Members in office at the time this section
takes effect shall continue in office until their successors are
appointed and qualified. For terms commencing July 10, 1969,
two (2) members shall be appointed to fill the positions expir-
ing upon that date, and two (2) additional members shall be
appointed to bring the membership of said Board to seven (7) ;
provided, that the terms of such two additional members shall
be for such original duration, in no event to exceed four years,
as will insofar as practicable permit appointment at the end
of subsequent terms of office of members, of either one or two
members.
   Section 603. Removal. Any member of the Board may be
removed from office by the affirmative vote of six (6) members
of the Council in the same manner and subject to the same con-
ditions as the Council may remove the members of any of the
Boards provided for in this Charter in Article V.
   Section 604. Ordinances and Resolutions. All action taken
by the Board of Port Commissioners shall be by resolution,
except as hereinafter set forth in this Article. Any member of
the Board may require a record of the vote on any resolution
to be made in its minutes. The Board shall keep a minute book
wherein shall be recorded the proceedings taken at its meetings
and it shall keep a record and index of all of its resolutions
and ordinances.
   No ordinance or resolution shall be passed or become effec-
tive without receiving the affirmative votes of at least four
 (4) members of the Board.
   To constitute an ordinance a bill must, before final action
thereon, be passed to print and published with the ayes and
noes at least once in the official newspaper of the City. Be-
tween the first and final readings at least five (5) days shall
elapse. The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the
Board shall be substantially in these words:
   Be it ordained by the Board of Port Commissioners of the
City of Oakland as follows:
   All ordinances shall be signed by the President or Vice-
President of the Board and attested by the Secretary.
   A certified copy of each ordinance adopted by the Board
shall be forthwith filed with the City Clerk, and the City
Clerk shall keep a record and index thereof which shall at all
times be open to public inspection.
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 21]                REGULAR SESSION                  3543

    Section 605. Ordinances Required in Certain Cases. All
 proceedings for the acquisition of real property by purchase,
 condemnation, or otherwise, or the granting of any lease
 longer than one (1) year, the fixing, regulating, and altering
 schedules of rates, dockage, wharfage, tolls, and charges for
 all public-owned docks, piers, wharves, slips and other facili-
 ties, and for services rendered by the Port Department, and
 the adoption of all general rules and regulations of the Board,
 excepting administrative regulations of a temporary nature,
 shall be taken by ordinance.
    Section 606. Powers and Duties of the Board. The Board
 of Port Commissioners shall have the complete and exclusive
 power, and it shall be its duty for and on behalf of the
 City:
    (1) To sue and defend in the name of the City in all ac-
 tions and proceedings wherein there is involved any matters
 within the jurisdiction of the Board.
    (2) To make provision for the needs of commerce, ship-
ping, and navigation of the port, to promote, develop, con-
struct, reconstruct, alter, repair, maintain, equip and oper-
 ate all water front properties including piers, wharves, sea
walls, docks, basins, channels, slips, landings, warehouses,
floating and other plants or works, dredge, and reclaim land,
construct, equip and operate terminal trackage with sidings
and turnouts and railroad connections between docks, piers
and other port structures, and connect the same with main-
line tracks, and to establish, equip and operate all other facili-
ties or aids incident to the development, protection and op-
eration of the port, as may be deemed proper and desirable
in its judgment, and it may modify its plans from time to
time as the requirements of commerce, shipping and naviga-
tion may demand, and as part of such development and opera-
tion to provide for tugs, dredges, fireboats, barges, cold storage
plants, and all other publicly owned facilities or appliances in-
cident to the operation of the port, of such number and charac-
ter, and in such places as the Board may deem feasible and
proper.
    (3) To take charge of, control, and supervise the Port of
Oakland, including all the water front properties, and lands
adjacent thereto, or under water, structures thereon, and ap-
proaches thereto, storage facilities, and other utilities, and
all rights and interests belonging thereto, which are now or
may hereafter be owned or possessed by the City, including
all salt or marsh or tide lands and structures thereon granted
to the City in trust by the State of California for the promo-
tion and accommodation of commerce and navigation.
    (4) To have control and jurisdiction of that part of the
City hereinafter defined as the " P o r t A r e a " and enforce
therein general rules and regulations, to the extent that may
be necessary or requisite for port purposes and harbor devel-
opment, and in carrying out the powers elsewhere vested in
the Board.
3544              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Ees. Ch. 21

   Provided, however, that with the approval of the Council
the Board may relinquish to the Council control of portions
of the said area, and likewise, upon request of the Board,
the Council may, by ordinance, enlarge the Port Area.
    (5) To require owners of water terminal properties and
facilities within the port to keep the same in proper condition
and repair and to maintain them with especial reference to
the reduction of fire hazard or nuisances, and it shall have the
right to inspect such terminal facilities at reasonable times.
    (6) To exercise all the powers pertaining to the water
front, wharves, dredging machines, or the port and its opera-
tion and maintenance, which have been heretofore conferred
upon the City and the Council by Section 106 of this Char-
ter.
    (7) To regulate the berthing, anchoring, towing, loading,
 unloading and mooring of vessels within the port.
    (8) To handle, store and recondition all commodities; to
sell or otherwise dispose of personal property within its pos-
session or ownership, and, generally, to perform all services
customary, necessary or expedient in connection with the de-
velopment and operation of the port.
    (9) To issue receipts, negotiable or otherwise, for property
or merchandise in its charge or possession.
    (10) To fix all rates, dockage, rentals, tolls, wharfage, and
 charges, for the use and occupation of the public facilities
 or appliances of the port, and for services rendered by the
 Port Department, and to provide for the collection thereof.
     (11) To use, for loading and unloading cargo, with the
 right to collect tolls, dockage and other terminal charges
 thereon, such portions of the streets of the City ending or
 fronting upon the water areas of the harbor of said City, as
 may be used for said purposes.
     (12) To build piers, wharves, docks, bulkheads, slips or
 other structures, across and upon such streets, provided only
 that access be provided to the public at the shoreward end
 thereof.
     (13) To lend its aid to secure the improvement of navigable
 tidal waters within or adjacent to the port, where, in its opin-
 ion, such improvements are economically justifiable, and in the
 general carrying out of its powers to cooperate with neighbor-
 ing cities, other ports, the State of California, or the United
 States Government, and appear before state, federal and other
 public legislative and administrative authorities.
     (14) To manage the business of the port and promote the
 maritime and commercial interests by proper advertisement of
 its advantages, and by the solicitation of business, within or
 without the port, within other states or in foreign countries,
 through such employees and agencies as it may deem expedient.
     (15) To acquire in the name of the City by purchase, con-
  demnation, gift, lease, or otherwise take over and hold all
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                   3545

lands, property, property rights, leases, or easements, and
personal property of every kind, necessary or convenient for
the development and operation of the port, or for the carrying
out of the powers herein granted to the Board.
   Whenever the Board determines that any lands owned by the
City within its jurisdiction have become unnecessary for port
purposes or harbor development, it may in its discretion trans-
fer such lands to the control of the Council, free from all
restrictions, or it may sell or exchange such lands, by ordi-
nance subject to the referendum provisions of this Charter.
   (16) To purchase materials and supplies.
   (17) To enter into contracts, agreements, or stipulations
 (other than leases) germane to the scope of its powers and
duties.
   (18) To let all work by contract, or order it done by day
labor, as the Board may determine.
   (19) To have and exercise the right of eminent domain
within the " P o r t A r e a " on behalf of and in the name of the
City for port purposes, harbor development or the carrying
out of any of the powers granted to said Board, and to ex-
clusively find and determine by ordinance adopted by a two-
thirds vote of all of its members the public interest and neces-
sity thereof.
   (20) To appoint a Port Attorney, whose duty it shall be to
pass upon the form and legality of all contracts within the
jurisdiction of the Board, give legal advice to the Board on
official matters, defend and (subject to direction from the
Board) prosecute or compromise all actions at law or in equity
and special proceedings for or against the City or any officers
thereof in his official capacity, pertaining to matters within
the jurisdiction of the Board. The Board shall fix and provide
for his compensation.
    (21) To employ and appoint an Executive Director, and
such other officers, employees and agents as may be necessary
in the efficient and economical carrying out of its functions
and to prescribe and fix their duties, authority and compensa-
tion, and to require such officers, employees and agents to give
a bond in such an amount as the Board may require for the
faithful discharge of their duties. All offices and places of em-
ployment in the permanent service of the Board shall be cre-
ated by ordinance duly passed.
    (22) To provide and equip offices.
   (23) To expend all funds necessary to the carrying out of
the powers and duties herein expressed.
   (24) To adopt and enforce such ordinances, orders, regula-
tions and practices as are necessary for the proper administra-
tion and discharge of its duties arid powers, or for the manage-
ment and government of the port, and its facilities.
   (25) To prescribe fines, forfeitures and penalties for the
violation of any provision of this Article, or of any ordinance,
3546               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 21

but no penalty shall exceed Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00)
or six (6) months imprisonment, or both.
   (26) To have and exercise on behalf of the City all the
rights, powers and duties in respect to the subject matters
herein provided for, that are now or which may hereafter be
vested in the City, or any of its departments or officers, or
which may be provided for by general law.
   (27) To do and perform any and all other acts and things
which may be necessary and proper to carry out the general
powers of the City, or any of the provisions of this Article,
and to exercise all powers not in conflict with the Constitution
of the State, or with this Charter, germane to the scope of its
powers, purposes and duties.
   Section 607. Operation of Facilities. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Charter to the contrary, the Board shall
not be required to directly operate all of the properties, fa-
cilities and utilities under its control or jurisdiction, and shall
have the power to authorize the operation of any of such
properties, facilities and utilities by a private person, firm,
association or corporation, whether by lease, franchise, license,
assignment, permit or otherwise, upon such terms and condi-
tions as the Board shall prescribe, which terms and conditions
shall include control over the rates, charges and practices of
said private party to the extent permitted by law.
   Section 608. Building Permits. No person or persons
shall construct, extend, alter, improve, erect, remodel or re-
pair any pier, slip, basin, wharf, dock or other harbor struc-
ture, or any building or structure within the " P o r t A r e a "
without first applying for and securing from the Board a
permit so to do, in accordance with the rules and regulations
adopted by it. In approving or denying the right to said per-
mit, the Board shall consider the application therefor, the
 character, nature and size and location of the proposed im-
provement, and exercise a reasonable and sound discretion
in the premises.
   Provided, however, that applications for building permits
pertaining to privately owned property within the " P o r t
A r e a " shall be made to the Executive Director who shall con-
sider and act upon them in the same manner as applications
for such permits made to the Board. Any person excepting
to any denial, suspension or revocation of a permit applied
for or held by him pursuant to the provisions of this section,
or any person excepting to the granting of, or to the refusal
to suspend or revoke a permit applied for or held under
the provisions of this section, may appeal to the Board by
filing with the Secretary a written notice of such appeal
setting forth the specific grounds thereof. Such notice must
be filed within fourteen (14) days after notice of such denial,
 suspension, revocation or granting, or refusal to suspend, re-
 voke or grant, such permit, constituting the basis of such
 appeal, but in no event later than thirty (30) days after
                    1969
Res. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                 3547
the date of the denial, suspension, revocation or granting of
the permit. The Secretary shall forthwith set said matter
for hearing before the Board and cause notice thereof to be
given (1) to the appellant, and (2) to the adverse party or
parties, or to the attorney, spokesman or representative
thereof, not less than five (5) days prior to such hearing.
At such hearing the appellant shall show cause, on the grounds
specified in the notice of appeal, why the action excepted
to should not be approved. The Board may continue such
hearing from time to time, and its findings and conclusions
on the appeal shall be final and conclusive in the matter.
   Such permit issued by the Board or the Executive Director
shall be in addition to any permit which may be required by
law from the Building Inspector of the City.
   Section 609. Leases. The Board shall have the power to
make and enter into any lease of any properties belonging to
or possessed by the City under its jurisdiction for a term
of not to exceed sixty-six (66) years, provided that all leases
made shall be subject to referendum.
    Section 610. Contracts. All contracts shall be made and
entered into in accordance with the conditions and procedures
established by the Board, but subject to bid limit established
by the Council pursuant to the provisions of Sections 707 and
708 of this Charter. All powers and duties therein conferred
or imposed upon the Council or the City Attorney are, in
relation to all matters connected with the Port, hereby con-
ferred and imposed respectively upon the Board and its
attorney. Plans and specifications at the time of publication
of notice inviting such bidding must be on file in the office
of the Board, subject to public inspection.
    Section 611. Supervision of Leases, etc. The Board shall
 take over and control, and shall have the power to grant,
 all leases, concessions, easements, privileges, spur tracks and
 other permits, wharfing-out rights, and waterfront or other
 franchises relating to the harbor or port and located within
 the " P o r t A r e a " and receive the income therefrom, but
 this shall not include franchises for the construction and
 maintenance of railroads, power lines, gas mains and other
 utilities of a general nature which may extend through other
 portions of the City into the Port Area and which are within
 the jurisdiction of the Council pursuant to the provisions
 of Article I X of this Charter, and subject to the supervision
 of the City Manager.
    I t shall be the duty of the Board to see that all provisions
 of such leases, concessions, easements, privileges, permits,
 rights or franchises within its jurisdiction are faithfully ob-
 served, and it may cause to be instituted such actions or
 proceedings in the name of the City as may be neces-
 sary to enforce the provisions thereof, or to revoke, cancel, or
  annul them when they have become forfeitable in whole or in
 part, or are illegal, or void or voidable.
3548              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            [R e g (fa   21


   Section 612. Eestrictions of Powers of Council. No fran-
chise shall be granted, no property shall be acquired or sold,
no street shall be opened, altered, closed or abandoned, and
no sewer, street, or other public improvement shall be lo-
cated or constructed in the " P o r t A r e a " by the City of
Oakland, or the Council thereof, without the approval of the
Board.
   Section 613. Public Streets. Whenever the Board shall
determine that it is necessary to open, close, improve, alter or
vacate a public street or part of a public street within the
" P o r t Area", a certified copy of the resolution so determin-
ing such necessity shall be filed by the Board in the Office
of the City Clerk, with the request that the City Manager
and the Council initiate and carry to completion the proceed-
ings necessary to effect said proposal.
   Section 614. Personnel System. All permanent places of
employment in and under the Board shall be included within
the personnel system of the City established pursuant to
and subject to the provisions of Article V I I I of this Charter,
except the Executive Director and his two principal assist-
ants, the Secretary of the Board, the Port Attorney and legal
assistants, chief wharfinger, field and traffic representatives,
and all persons employed in the physical or mechanical han-
dling, moving or checking of cargo and freight. The exemp-
tion of such personnel from the operation of civil service
rules shall not in any way affect such pre-existing civil serv-
ice rights as such employee may hold.
    Section 615. Annual Budget. The Board shall annually,
on or before the fourth Monday of May, or not less than one
week prior to the submission of the annual appropriation
ordinance by the City Manager, should the Council advance
the date therefor, but not later than the third Monday of
July, carefully prepare a budget setting forth the estimated
receipts of the Port, and revenue from other sources, for the
ensuing year, and the sums of money necessarily required
for the administration of the department, and for mainte-
nance, operation, construction and development of the port and
its facilities for the ensuing year, and stating the amount
necessary to be raised by tax levy for said purposes. Said
budget when so prepared, shall be certified by the President
and Secretary of the Board, and a certified copy thereof shall,
on or before said date, be filed with the Council, one with the
City Manager, and one with the Auditor.
   Section 616. Tax Levy Funds. In the event that said Port
budget, as provided for in the foregoing section, shall request
or provide for the allocation or appropriation to the Port
by the Council of any funds raised or to be raised by tax
levy or in any manner to be obtained from general revenues
of the City, or shall request the incurring or payment of any
financial obligation by the City for the Port's use and benefit,
or shall not provide for Board servicing of existing or future
                     1969
Res. Ch. 211                REGULAR SESSION                   3549

general obligation bonds of the City issued for Port purposes,
the Council shall have the authority to reject said budget
and to require it to be revised to meet with Council approval,
subject, however, to the Board's covenants with the holders of
all of the then outstanding revenue bonds issued by the Board.
   The Treasurer shall keep all Port funds separate from other
funds in his possession, and the Board shall have the exclusive
management and disbursement of the same.

Allocation of Funds.
    Section 617(1). All Port facilities, airport facilities and
terminal facilities of any kind or character are hereby consoli-
dated and shall be operated as a single project by the Board
in the interest of transportation by land, by sea and by air,
it being hereby found and determined that transportation fa-
cilities of all classes implement and augment each other to such
an extent that the same must in the public interest be oper-
ated singly and under one central supervision and control.
Wherever in this Charter the terms " p o r t " , "project", or
"terminal facilities" are used, the same shall include all fa-
cilities under the jurisdiction of the Board, irrespective of
whether the same shall be port or airport facilities.
    Section 617(2). All moneys once apportioned or appropri-
ated to the Board, including, without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, all moneys heretofore apportioned or appro-
priated to and now under the control of the Board, shall be
and remain under the control and order of and shall be ex-
pended by the Board for the purpose for which apportioned
or appropriated and shall be kept separate and apart from
all other moneys of the City or the Board. All surplus moneys
which, in the judgment of the Board, are not needed for the
purpose for which apportioned or appropriated, shall be allo-
cated to and deposited in the Revenue F u n d provided for in
Section 617(3).
    Section 617 (3). All income and revenue from the opera-
tion of the port or from the facilities of the port, of what-
ever kind or nature, and all net income from leases or any
 other source of income or revenue, including, without limiting
 the generality of the foregoing, all such income and revenue
now under the control of the Board, shall be and remain under
 the control and order of and shall be expended by the Board;
provided that all such income and revenue shall be allocated
 to and deposited in a special fund in the City Treasury (which
 is hereby created) designated " P o r t Revenue F u n d " and shall
 be kept separate and apart from all other moneys of the City
 or the Board and shall be used and applied for the following
 purposes and in the following order of priority, to wit:
    F i r s t : For the payment, as the same become due and pay-
 able, of the principal of and interest on any or all general
 obligation bonds of the City of Oakland heretofore and here-
 after issued for port purposes, but only to the extent required
3550              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Reg C h   21


 by the Constitution of the State of California or otherwise as
 determined by resolution of the Board.
    Second: For the payment of the principal of and interest
 on revenue bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness payable
 solely from revenues as in Section 618 provided, which are
 due or become due during the fiscal year in which the revenues
 in said funds, or either thereof, are received or are to be
received, together with reserve fund payments, sinking fund
payments or similar charges in connection with such revenue
 bonds due or to become due in such fiscal year, including all
payments required to be made pursuant to the terms of any
resolution authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, or re-
quired by the terms of the contract created by or upon the
issuance of revenue bonds.
   Third: For the payment of all costs of maintenance and
operation of the facilities from or on account of which such
money was received. General costs of administration and over-
head of the Board not directly chargeable to each facility
under its control shall be apportioned fairly by the Board,
upon such reasonable basis as it may determine, to each such
facility.
   Fourth: For defraying the expenses of any pension or re-
tirement system applicable to the employees of the Board.
   Fifth: For necessary additions, betterments, improve-
ments, repairs or enlargements of any facilities, and, to the
extent determined by a resolution or resolutions of the Board,
for replacements, renewals or reconstruction of any facilities.
   Sixth: For establishing and maintaining reserve or other
funds to insure the payment on or before maturity of any or
all general obligation bonds of the City now outstanding or
hereafter issued for any facility under the control of the
Board, but only to the extent required by the Constitution of
the State of California or otherwise as determined by resolu-
tion of the Board.
   Seventh: For establishing and maintaining reserve or other
funds to insure the payment on or before maturity of any or
all revenue bonds of the Board hereafter issued.
   Eighth: For establishing and maintaining such other re-
serve funds pertaining to the facilities of the Board as shall
be determined by a resolution or resolutions of the Board.
   Ninth: For transfer to the General Fund of the City, to the
extent that the Board shall determine that surplus moneys
exist in such fund which are not then needed for any of the
purposes above stated.

Financing of Harbor and Airport Operations.
   Section 618 (1). General Obligation Bonds of the City.
The City of Oakland may from time to time incur general ob-
ligation bonded indebtedness in the manner provided by law
for the acquisition, construction or completion of any port
facilities or improvements of the Port of Oakland, including
Res. Ch. 21]        i»<*» REGULAR SESSION                   3551


land, rights of way and air easements. The proceeds from
the sale of any general obligation bonds now authorized, or
which may hereafter be authorized, for any such purposes,
shall be under the control of, and shall be expended by, the
Board for the objects and purposes for which such general
obligation bonded indebtedness was incurred. "Whenever, in
the opinion of the Board, it is desirable for the City of Oak-
land to incur additional general obligation bonded indebted-
ness for any project within the jurisdiction or control of the
Board, the Board shall prepare tentative plans, estimates and
bond retirement schedules and submit its recommendations in
writing to the City Council, which shall thereupon take such
action as it deems advisable to reject or carry out such recom-
mendations.
   Section 618 (2). Revenue Bonds of the Board. I n addi-
tion to all powers herein granted to the City of Oakland, and
as an alternative procedure for the financing of harbor and
airport improvements, the Board is authorized to issue rev-
enue bonds payable exclusively from the revenues of a project
as in this Section 618 defined and such revenue bonds shall not
constitute a debt, liability or obligation of the City of Oakland
and shall be payable exclusively from revenues, and other
funds (including interest thereon) which may be established
as additional security for said revenue bonds, as in this Sec-
tion 618 provided.
   Section 618 (3). Methods of Financing Not Exclusive.
Nothing in this Section 618 contained shall in any way
abridge, control, limit, restrict or revoke the power of the
electors of the City of Oakland to vote for and cause to be
authorized and issued general obligation bonds of the City of
Oakland for the acquisition, construction or completion of any
project herein defined, or any additions thereto or betterments
or improvements thereof, irrespective of whether or not rev-
enue bonds for such purpose have been, or may thereafter be
issued hereunder, and nothing herein contained shall prevent
the financing of any project or any additions, betterments or
improvements thereof from any other funds which may be
legally available for that purpose. Revenue bonds authorized
to be issued hereunder shall not be subject to charter limita-
tions as to the amount of general obligation bonded indebted-
ness of the City of Oakland, nor be taken into consideration in
determining the amount of general obligation bonded indebt-
edness which the City of Oakland is authorized to incur, and
the issuance of revenue bonds as in this Section 618 provided
shall be deemed to constitute a supplemental and additional
method of providing funds for the financing of harbor and
airport improvements. Such revenue bonds shall be issued in
the name of the Board of Port Commissioners of the City of
Oakland and shall constitute obligations only of the Board,
payable in accordance with their terms from revenues of any
project, as in this Section 618 authorized.

   112—1954
3552                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ ] J e s Qfc £1

   Section 618 (4). Definitions. The following terms when-
ever used or referred to in this Section 618, or in any resolu-
tion authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds, shall have the
following meanings, respectively, unless a different meaning
appears from the context:
    (a) Eevenue Bonds. The term "revenue bonds" means
the written evidence of any obligation issued by the Board,
 payment of which is secured by a pledge of revenues or any
part of revenues, as provided in this Section, in order to ob-
tain funds with which to carry out any of the purposes of this
 Section, irrespective of the form of such obligation.
    (b) Project. The term " p r o j e c t " means (i) any one or
more, or all of, the harbor and port facilities referred to* in
 Section 606 of this Charter and (ii) any airport facilities, the
jurisdiction and control over which have been, or may here-
 after be, vested in the Board by the City of Oakland; pro-
vided that the Board may limit or restrict the term " p r o j e c t "
to any particular facility or facilities which may be desig-
nated by the Board as a specific project in any resolution of
issue for the purpose in such resolution provided.
    (c) Eevenues. The term "revenues" means and includes
any and all rates, tolls, fees, rentals and other charges re-
ceived or receivable in connection with, and any and all in-
come and receipts of whatever kind and character derived by
the Board from, the operation of a project, or arising from a
project, including any such revenues, as may have been or
may be impounded or deposited in any fund created for the
security or further protection of revenue bonds or for the
purpose of providing for the payment of the principal thereof
or the interest thereon. The term "revenues" also includes
net revenues from any existing facilities under the jurisdic-
tion of the Board to the extent that the same shall be pledged
or otherwise made available for the payment of principal and
interest of revenue bonds or as security or further protection
for revenue bonds issued by the Board.
   (d) Eesolution of Issue. The term "resolution of issue"
means any agreement entered into by the Board, including
any resolution adopted by the Board, pursuant to which reve-
nue bonds are issued, and includes any agreement entered
into or resolution adopted by the Board amending, modifying
or supplementing a resolution of issue irrespective of the form
thereof.
   Section 618 (5). Eates, Tolls and Charges. "Without lim-
iting any power in this Charter conferred upon the Board,
the Board has power for any of the purposes of this Section
618 to fix rates, tolls, fees, rentals or charges for the use of
the facilities provided by any project, or for any services
rendered in connection therewith, and to alter, change or
modify the same at its pleasure, subject to any contractual
obligation which may be entered into by the Board with re-
spect to the fixing of such rates, tolls, fees, rentals or other
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                   3553

charges; and, by a resolution of issue or otherwise, to enter
into covenants to increase rates, tolls, fees, rentals or other
charges from time to time; provided, however, that any per-
son shall be permitted to use or operate any facilities pro-
vided by any project only upon payment of the regularly
established charge therefor, except as may be otherwise specif-
ically provided in a resolution of issue. All rates, fees, rentals
and other charges shall be paid only in such coin or currency
as on the date of payment is legal tender for public and pri-
vate debts.
   Section 618 (6). Authorization of Revenue Bonds. Each
issue of revenue bonds shall be authorized by the Board by a
resolution of issue adopted by the affirmative votes of at least
five (5) members of the Board at a duly assembled meeting.
Each resolution of issue shall prescribe the purpose or pur-
poses for which, and the terms and conditions on which, said
revenue bonds are to be issued.
    Section 618 (7). Provisions relating to Revenue Bonds.
The Board shall have power to determine all of the terms and
conditions of the issuance and sale of revenue bonds pursuant
to this Section 618, and without limiting in any way the gen-
erality of such power, the Board is expressly authorized in its
discretion to provide, in connection with any issue of such
revenue bonds, as follows:
    (a) Series and Divisions. Revenue bonds may be issued in
series, and any issue may be divided into one or more series or
divisions with different maturities or dates for each series or
division, different rates of interest and different terms and
 conditions for the bonds of the several series or divisions. Reve-
 nue bonds of the same authorized issue need not be of the same
 kind or character, have the same security, or be of the same
 interest rate, but the terms thereof in each case shall be as
provided for by the Board.
    (b) Form and Date of Bonds. Bonds shall be of such form
 and tenor and shall bear such date or dates as may be pre-
 scribed by the resolution of issue.
    (c) Maturity. Bonds may be serial bonds or sinking fund
 bonds with such maturity or maturities as shall be provided in
 the resolution of issue. No bond by its terms shall mature in
 more than forty (40) years from its own date and, in the
 event any authorized issue is divided into two or more series
 or divisions, the maximum maturity date of each such series
 or division shall be calculated from the date on the face of each
 bond separately, irrespective of the fact that different dates
 may be prescribed for the bonds of each separate series or
 division of any authorized issue.
    (d) Interest. Bonds shall bear interest at a rate of not to
  exceed seven (7) percent per annum, payable annually or
 semi-annually, or in part annually and in part semi-annually.
3554              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Ees. Ch. 21

    (e) Coupon or Registered Bonds. Bonds may be issued as
 coupon bonds or as registered bonds, with or without coupons,
with appropriate provisions for the interchange of coupon
bonds for registered bonds and registered bonds for coupon
bonds; bonds may be registered as to principal only, or as to
both principal and interest; and new bonds or coupons may be
issued in place of bonds or coupons which have been surren-
 dered and canceled whenever appropriate as incidental to the
 discharge of any bond from registration; all on such terms
 and conditions, and at such place or places, within or without
the State of California, as the Board may determine.
    (f) Eedemption. Bonds may be callable upon such terms
and conditions, at the option of the Board or by operation of
any sinking fund, and upon such notice as the resolution of
issue shall prescribe and upon payment of such premium (not
exceeding seven (7) per cent of the par value of such bonds)
as may be fixed in the resolution of issue. No bond shall be
subject to call or redemption prior to its fixed maturity date,
unless the right to exercise such call is expressly stated on the
face of the bonds.
    (g) Source of Payment. All revenue bonds shall be pay-
able exclusively from revenues as more particularly defined
in the resolution of issue.
    (h) Reference on Bonds to Resolution of Issue. Reference
on the face of a revenue bond to the resolution of issue by its
date of adoption shall be sufficient to incorporate all of the
provisions thereof and of this Section 618 into the body of
said revenue bond and its appurtenant coupons and each taker
and subsequent holder of a revenue bond or coupons, whether
such coupons are attached to or detached from said revenue
bond, shall have recourse to all of the provisions of the resolu-
tion of issue and of this Section 618 and shall be bound
thereby.
   (i) Recital in Bonds. Bonds may contain a recital that all
acts, conditions and things required to exist, to happen and
to be performed, precedent to and in the issuance of the bonds
have existed, happened and been performed in due time,
form and manner as required by law and this Charter, all
of which facts the Board is authorized to find and determine
prior to the issuance of the bonds. Revenue bonds shall also
contain a recital on their face that neither the payment of
principal of nor of interest on such bonds constitutes a debt,
liability or obligation of the City of Oakland.
   (j) Place and Manner of Payment. The principal of and
interest on bonds may be payable at any one or more places
within or without the State of California and in any specified
coin or currency of the United States of America, as may be
provided in the resolution of issue.
   (k) Execution and Authentication of Bonds; Validity of
Signatures and Countersignatures. Bonds may be executed
and authenticated by the manual, lithographed or printed f ac-
                     1969
Res. Ch. 21]                REGULAR SESSION                  3555

 simile signature of any officer or officers of the Board and
 may also be authenticated by a trustee or fiscal agent ap-
 pointed by the Board. If any of the officers whose signatures
 or countersignatures appear on the bonds cease to be officers
 before the delivery of the bonds or coupons to the purchasers
 thereof, their signatures or countersignatures shall neverthe-
 less be valid and of the same force and effect as if such officer
 had remained in office until the delivery of the bonds and cou-
 pons.
    (I) Issuance of Temporary Bonds. Pending the actual is-
 suance or delivery of definitive bonds, the Board may issue
temporary or interim bonds, certificates or receipts of any
 denominations whatsoever, and with or without coupons, and
with such provisions as the Board shall determine, to be ex-
changed for definitive bonds when ready for delivery. In the
absence of an express recital on its face that a temporary
bond or interim receipt is non-negotiable, such bond or in-
terim receipt is a negotiable instrument.
    (m) Replacement of Lost, Destroyed, Mutilated or Stolen
Bonds. Lost, destroyed, mutilated or stolen bonds or coupons
may be replaced as provided in the resolution of issue.
    (n) Security. All revenue bonds shall be secured by an
exclusive pledge and charge upon all or a portion of the gross
revenues of any project for or in connection with which said
revenue bonds are issued or authorized to be issued, including
revenues of any existing facilities, all as provided for in the
resolution of issue. Gross revenues of a project may include
revenues from additions, betterments, improvements and ex-
tensions of such project later constructed or acquired. The
gross revenues of a project and any interest earned on the
gross revenues of such project shall constitute a trust fund for
the security and payment of the principal of and interest on
the revenue bonds and so long as any revenue bonds or interest
thereon are unpaid said revenues and interest shall not be
used for any other purpose; provided, however, that a resolu-
tion of issue may provide that if the principal of and interest
on the bonds and all charges to protect and secure them are
paid when due, an amount for the maintenance and operation
costs of a project may be apportioned from revenues, but only
to the extent specified in the resolution of issue.
    (o) Revenue Bonds of Same Issue to be Equally Secured.
Revenue bonds of the same issue shall be equally secured by a
pledge and charge upon revenues, without preference or pri-
ority by reason of number, date of bonds, or date of sale,
execution, or delivery of bonds; except that if the Board au-
thorizes the issuance of bonds of different series it may provide
that the bonds in any series shall, to the extent and in the
manner prescribed in the resolution of issue, be subordinated
and be junior in standing with respect to the payment of
principal and interest and the security thereof to such other
bonds as may be specified in the resolution of issue.
3556              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 21

    (p) Refunding Bonds. Refunding bonds may be issued
and sold or exchanged for the purpose of redeeming, retiring
or refunding any revenue bonds issued under this Section 618,
subject to any limitations contained in the resolution of issue
pursuant to which such revenue bonds are issued. All provi-
sions of this Section applicable to the issuance of revenue
bonds shall be applicable to the refunding bonds and to the
issuance, sale or exchange thereof. Refunding bonds may be
issued in a principal amount sufficient to provide funds for
the payment of all bonds to be refunded thereby, and. in addi-
tion, for the payment of all expenses incident to the calling,
retiring or paying of such outstanding bonds and the issuance
of such refunding bonds. Such expenses may include the dif-
ference in amount between the par value of the refunding
bonds and any amount less than par for which the refunding
bonds are sold, any amount necessary to be made available for
the payment of interest upon such refunding bonds from the
date of sale thereof to the date of payment of the bonds to be
refunded, or to the date upon which the bonds to be refunded
will be paid pursuant to call thereof, and also the premium, if
any, necessary to be paid in order to call and retire the out-
standing bonds and the interest accruing thereon to the date
of call or retirement.
    (q) Validity of Revenue Bonds not Affected by Actions of
City or Board Relative to Project. The validity of the
authorization and issuance of any revenue bonds by the Board
shall not be dependent on or affected in any way b y :
     (i) Proceedings taken by the City or the Board for the
acquisition, construction or completion of any project or any
part thereof;
    (ii) Any contracts made in connection with the acquisition,
construction or completion of any project; or
    (iii) The failure to complete any project for which bonds
are authorized to be issued.
    (r) Sale of Revenue Bonds. Notice inviting sealed bids
shall be given in such manner as the Board may prescribe prior
to any sale of revenue bonds. If satisfactory bids are received,
the bonds offered for sale shall be awarded to the highest re-
sponsible bidder. If no bids are received or if the Board deter-
mines that the bids received are not satisfactory as to price or
responsibility of the bidders, the Board may reject all bids
received, if any, and either readvertise or sell the bonds at
private sale. The Board may sell bonds at a price below the
par or face value thereof, provided that the maximum net
interest cost (computed on a 360-day year basis) on bonds
 sold below par or face value shall not exceed an average of
seven (7) per cent per annum, payable semi-annually, to the
 respective maturity dates of said bonds.
     (s) Payment of Incidental Expenses and Interest and Crea-
 tion of Funds from Proceeds of Sale of Revenue Bonds. All
 costs and expenses incidental to the issuance and sale of reve-
 nue bonds, including the cost of preparation of the revenue
                     1969
Res. Ch. 211                REGULAR SESSION                  3557

bonds and coupons, the cost of all surveys, of preparation of
plans and specifications, of all architectural, engineering, in-
spection, legal, financial and economic consultant's, trustee's
and fiscal agent's fees, the creation of a bond reserve fund,
the creation of a working capital fund, and bond interest esti-
mated to accrue during the period of acquisition or con-
struction of a project and for a period of not to exceed three
 (3) years thereafter, all as provided for in the resolution of
issue, may be paid out of the proceeds of sale of the revenue
bonds.
   Section 618 (8). Provisions Eelating to Resolutions of Is-
sue. The Board is hereby further authorized in its discretion
to provide in and by each resolution of issue which may be
adopted by the Board as follows:
   (a) Construction Fund. The proceeds of sale of revenue
bonds shall either be deposited in a fund separate and apart
from all other funds of the City and the Board or paid direct
to any bank or trust company designated by the Board as its
fiscal agent, and said proceeds shall be held either by the City
or such fiscal agent in a separate account to be designated the
"Construction F u n d " and be disbursed in the manner and
upon the conditions provided in the resolution of issue for
the object and purpose of the acquisition, construction and
completion of the project therein designated, or for additions,
betterments or improvements thereof, including the payment
of all incidental expenses and interest and the creation of
funds as provided for in subparagraph (s) of paragraph 7
of this Section 618. Moneys in any construction fund may be
invested as the Board in its sole discretion shall determine,
subject only to such limitations as may be provided in the
resolution of issue. Moneys in a construction fund remaining
unexpended after said object and purpose shall have been com-
pleted may be applied to the payment of the principal of and
interest on said revenue bonds, and none of said moneys may
be transferred to any other fund of the City or the Board or
used for any purpose other than as specified in the resolution
of issue.
   (b) Continuous Operation of Project; Repairs, Renewals
and Replacements. So long as any bonds thereby authorized
shall be outstanding, the City and the Board shall operate the
project designated in the resolution of issue continuously and
in an efficient and economical manner and in good working
order and condition and shall make all necessary repairs, im-
provements and replacements; provided that the Board in its
discretion may, subject to the terms of any resolution of issue,
abandon or discontinue operation of any one or more facilities
comprising a part of a project.
   (c) Rates, Fees and Other Charges. The Board will pre-
scribe, revise and collect rates, tolls, fees, rentals and charges
for use of the facilities provided by the project, the revenues
from which are pledged to secure the bonds; and the Board
3558               STATUTES O F CALIPORNIA           [Ees. Ch. 21

will provide that such rates, tolls, fees, rentals and charges
shall at all times be sufficient to yield revenues from such proj-
ect and from any existing facilities the revenues from which
are pledged to secure any bonds equal to all redemption pay-
ments and interest charges on said revenue bonds as the same
fall due, together with such additional sums as may be required
for any sinking fund, reserve fund or other special fund pro-
vided for the security or further protection of said revenue
bonds, or as a depreciation charge or other charge in connection
with such project, and that such rates, tolls, fees and charges
shall not be reduced below an amount sufficient to provide
funds to meet all obligations specified in the resolution of
issue.
   (d) Holding and Application of Revenues. The Board shall
be required to hold or cause to be held in trust the revenues
pledged to the payment of the principal of and interest on the
bonds issued pursuant to said resolution of issue, or to any
reserve or other fund created for the security or further pro-
tection of the bonds, and to apply such revenues or cause
them to be applied only as provided in the resolution of issue.
   (e) Preservation and Protection of Security of Bonds. The
Board shall be required to preserve and protect the security
of the bonds issued thereunder and the rights of the holders
and to warrant and defend such rights and, also, to pay and
discharge or cause to be paid and discharged all lawful claims
for labor, materials and supplies or other charges which, if
unpaid, might become a lien or charge upon revenues, or which
might impair the security of any revenue bonds. Any right,
power or privilege of the City or the Board to mortgage or
otherwise encumber, or to sell, lease or dispose of a project
or to enter into any lease or agreement which impairs or im-
pedes the operation of a project or of any part thereof neces-
sary to provide adequate revenues, or which otherwise im-
pairs or impedes the rights of the holders of the bonds with
respect to such revenues, may be limited, restricted or pro-
hibited except upon such terms and conditions as may be pro-
vided in the resolution of issue.
   (f) Proceeds of Project Taken by Eminent Domain. If any
part of a project shall be taken by eminent domain or other
proceeding authorized by law, the proceeds to the City or the
Board therefrom shall be applied to the replacement of such
project or to the payment and retirement of the bonds or
otherwise as set forth in said resolution of issue.
   (g) Insurance. Insurance of specified kinds and amounts
shall be maintained by the Board on a project, or any part
thereof (including insurance of any project against loss of
revenues from any cause whatsoever, against public liability
or property damage and against loss by fire or any other
hazard, as may be provided in any resolution of issue). The
premiums thereon shall be paid by the Board from revenues,
or other specified funds or sources of income, and the use and
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                 3559

 disposition of proceeds of any such insurance thereafter col-
 lected shall be as specified in such resolution.
    (h) Books, Records and Accounts.
    (i) The Board will keep accurate books and records of ac-
 count showing all revenues received from the operation of any
 project and all expenditures thereof, and all revenues from
 any facilities pledged or otherwise made available as security
 or as further protection for the revenue bonds issued pursuant
 to said resolution of issue.
    (ii) All such books and records shall be open at all times
 during business hours to the inspection of the holders of one
 or more of the bonds or of any specified percentage of such
 holders or their duly authorized representatives.
    (iii) Annual or other periodic statements of the condition
 of such project and of all of said other revenues will be fur-
 nished to the holders of the bonds or to the trustee or fiscal
 agent hereinafter provided for, or to any designated percent-
 age of the holders of the bonds.
    (iv) Summaries of all such statements will be published
 at least annually in the official newspaper of the City.
    (v) The books and records of the City and the Board per-
 taining to the operation of any project and to all of said other
 revenues shall be audited by independent public accountants
 in such manner and under such circumstances as may be set
 forth in the resolution of issue.
    (i) Trustee; Fiscal Agent; Paying Agents. A bank or trust
 company qualified to do business in the State of California
 shall be appointed as a trustee or fiscal agent for the Board
 and holders of bonds issued under said resolution of issue, and
 any such trustee may be authorized to act on behalf of the
 holders of the bonds or any stated percentage thereof, and to
 exercise and prosecute on behalf of the holders of the bonds
 such rights and remedies as may be available to the holders.
 The Board may be authorized to designate any bank or t r u s t
 company in any city in which any bonds are made payable as
 the Board's paying agent in such city, and may fix and deter-
 mine the conditions upon which any trustee, fiscal agent or
 paying agent shall receive, hold or disburse any or all rev-
 enues deposited with it by or by authority of the Board. A
 resolution of issue may prescribe the duties and powers, if
 any, of any such trustee, fiscal agent or paying agent with
 respect to the issuance, authentication, sale and delivery of
 the bonds, the payment of the principal thereof and interest
 thereon, the redemption thereof, the registration and dis-
 charge from registration of bonds and the management of a n y
 funds provided for in the resolution of issue as security for
 the bonds.
    (j) Competitive Projects. Neither the City nor the Board
 shall, while any revenue bonds authorized by this Section 618
 are issued or outstanding, acquire, construct, complete o r
"maintain any projects or facilities or places within or without
3560              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Hes. Ch. 21

the City of Oakland, which compete in any way with any
project or which are similar to any facilities or projects main-
tained or operated by the City or the Board through the issu-
ance of revenue bonds pursuant to this Section 618.
   (k) Limitation on Additional Indebtedness. The incurring
of additional indebtedness payable in whole or in part from
the revenues charged with payment of the revenue bonds
issued pursuant to such resolution of issue shall be limited,
restricted or prohibited as provided in such resolution.
   (I) Events of Default. The rights, limitations, powers and
duties arising upon breach by the Board of any of its cove-
nants, agreements or obligations shall be as contained in the
resolution of issue, which may also provide the terms and
conditions upon which all bonds issued thereunder may be
declared or become due and payable prior to maturity and
the terms and conditions upon which such declaration and its
consequences may be waived.
   (m) Amendment or Modification of Resolution of Issue. A
resolution of issue may prescribe a procedure by which the
terms and conditions of the bonds and the resolution of issue
may be subsequently amended or modified with the consent
of the Board and the vote or written assent of the holders of
a specified principal amount or proportion of the bonds issued
and outstanding, including provision for meetings with bond-
holders and the manner in which the consents of the bond-
holders may be given. A resolution of issue may set forth a
specific statement of the effect of each such amendment or
modification upon the rights of the holders of all of the bonds
and interest coupons appertaining thereto. If desired, a reso-
lution of issue may contain a provision that bonds held, by the
Board or by the City or by the State of California or any
public corporation, political subdivision, city, county, district
or any agency of any thereof, shall not be counted as out-
standing bonds or be entitled to vote or consent, but shall
nevertheless be subject to any such amendment or modifica-
tion.
   (n) Use of Surplus. After all of the revenue bonds issued
pursuant to a resolution of issue shall have been fully paid
or discharged, or provision for their payment and discharge
irrevocably made, any surplus moneys in any construction
fund or other fund provided for the security or further pro-
tection of the bonds may, subject to the limitations and re-
strictions in said resolution of issue, become subject to control
of the Board and be expended by the Board for any lawful
purpose.
   (o) Additional Covenants and Agreements. The Board
will take such other action and do such other things and make
any and all such additional covenants and agreements as the
Board shall deem necessary or advisable for the better security
of the bonds or to make the bonds more marketable.
   Section 618 (9). Eights of Bondholders. Except as pro-
vided otherwise in any resolution of issue, the holder of any
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                   3551

bond issued pursuant to this Section 618 may, by mandamus
or other appropriate proceedings, require and compel the per-
formance of any of the duties imposed upon the Board or the
City or the Council or any official or employee of the Board or
the City or assumed by any thereof in connection with the
acquisition, construction, completion, operation, maintenance,
repair, reconstruction or insurance of any project, or the col-
lection, deposit, investment, application and disbursement of
rates, fees and charges derived from the operation and use of
any project and all other revenues, or in connection with the
deposit, investment or disbursement of the proceeds received
from the sale of the bonds under this Section. The enumeration
of such rights and remedies does not, however, exclude the
exercise or prosecution of any other rights or remedies avail-
able to the holders of bonds issued pursuant to this Section
618.
   Section 618 (10). Section Confers Complete Authority.
The provisions of this Section constitute full and complete
authority for the issuance of revenue bonds as herein provided
by the Board and no other procedure, or proceedings, consents,
approvals, orders or permission from the Council or any mu-
nicipal officer or board of the City of Oakland, shall be re-
quired for the acquisition, construction or completion of any
project, or the issuance of any revenue bonds under this Sec-
tion 618 except as specifically provided in this Section 618.
The powers and authorities conferred by this Section are in
addition to and supplemental to all other powers and author-
ities conferred upon the Board.
   Section 618 (11). Incurring Indebtedness. In addition to
all other powers herein granted to it and notwithstanding any
other provision of this Section 618, the Board is authorized:
 (a) from time to time to incur indebtedness for the purpose
of the acquisition, construction, completion or improvement of
any structure or facility which the Board is authorized to
develop, construct, reconstruct, alter, repair, maintain, equip
or operate pursuant to Section 606, and to lease such struc-
ture or facility to any person, subject to the limitations of this
Section; provided that no such indebtedness shall constitute
a debt, liability or obligation of the City of Oakland, that
each such indebtedness shall be repaid exclusively from the in-
come and revenue referred to in this clause ( a ) , and that the
Board shall provide not later than the date on which each
such indebtedness is incurred for payment in full of the prin-
cipal of and interest on such indebtedness by a pledge of all
or any portion of the gross income derived or to be derived by
the Board from the lease of such structure or facility and of
all or any portion of any other income and revenue then or
thereafter under control of the Board as shall be legally avail-
able for such purpose (all hereinafter in this Section referred
to as " t h e pledged income and revenue") ; (b) for the purpose
of paying the principal of and interest on such indebtedness,
3562              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            r j j e g Qfl 21

to assign to any person all or any portion of the pledged in-
come and revenue; and (c) notwithstanding the provisions
of Section 617 (3), to deposit the assigned portion of the
pledged income and revenue in a special fund other than the
Port Revenue Fund provided for in said Section 617 (3),
which said special fund (i) may be held or maintained by the
Board or by the Assignee of the assigned portion of the
pledged income and revenue and (ii) shall be used and ap-
plied by the Board or such assignee only to pay the principal
of and interest on such indebtedness. Any pledged income
and revenue remaining in any such special fund after pay-
ment in full of the principal of and interest on the indebted-
ness for which said special fund was created shall be de-
posited by the Board in said Port Revenue Fund.
   Any lease executed by the Board pursuant to this Section
shall be for a term of not to exceed 50 years and shall be
made by the Board only after complying with the provisions
of Section 609 of this Charter. Any such lease may provide
that all or any part of the cost of maintenance of the leased
structure or facility shall be paid by the lessee thereof or by
the Board and, to the extent that such cost is to be paid by
the Board, that such payment shall be made either from gross
income to the Board from such lease or from any other legally
available funds of the Board.
   Any indebtedness incurred by the Board pursuant to this
Section shall (1) be evidenced by contract or other written
instrument which may be made by the Board without com-
plying with any of the provisions of Section 610 of this Char-
ter and which shall be signed by the President of the Board
and approved by a resolution of the Board, (2) bear interest
at a rate not exceeding 7% per annum payable annually or
more often as shall be provided by the Board at the time
such indebtedness is incurred and (3) be paid in not to ex-
ceed 50 years from the date on which it is incurred on such
terms and conditions and subject to such right of payment
of all or any part of such indebtedness prior to maturity
as shall be provided by the Board at the time such indebted-
ness is incurred; provided, that the Board may fix a date not
more than 5 years from the date of incurring any such in-
debtedness as the date of payment of the first installment of
the principal thereof and that beginning on such date not
less than % 0 of the principal amount of such indebtedness
shall be paid annually and the entire principal amount thereof
shall be paid in not to exceed 50 years from the date on which
it is incurred.
   The term " p e r s o n " as used in this Section means any in-
dividual, firm, association, private or public corporation, pub-
lic district or political subdivision of the State of California,
the State of California, the United States of America, or
any agency or authority of any thereof.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                  3563

   Section 618(12). Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Charter, including Section 618(11), to the contrary, any
lease the Board is authorized to make shall be for a term of
not to exceed sixty-six years.
   Section 619. Moneys on Hand. All moneys in the Harbor
Maintenance and Improvement F u n d at the time of the
adoption of this Charter and all other revenues and funds in
the possession of the City set aside for port purposes, shall
immediately be under the jurisdiction and control of the
Board.
   Section 620. Duties of Treasurer. All moneys under the
control of the Board shall be immediately paid over to the
Treasurer of the City of Oakland, who shall have the care
and custody of said funds, and shall keep separate accounts
thereof, and pay out the same, as provided in this Charter.
   Section 621. Eevolving Fund. The Board shall have au-
thority to set up by ordinance a sufficient contingent or re-
volving fund from which the Executive Director shall be en-
titled to draw warrants directly upon the Treasurer for the
prompt payment of transient laborers, and the Treasurer shall
upon presentation of same, pay such warrants. Statements of
such payments shall be filed with the Board at its regular
meetings and shall be approved by the Board and endorsed
by the President and Secretary thereof, and audited as in
the case of ordinary claims.
   Section 622. Additional Powers. The City Council, sub-
ject to the approval of the Board, may by ordinance confer
upon and delegate to the Board, from time to time, such addi-
tional powers and duties which may be vested in it, and which
it may deem necessary or convenient to carry out the general
purposes of such Board.
   Section 623. Liberal Construction. If any section, clause,
word, or provision of this Article shall be held unconstitu-
tional, the other sections, clauses, words, or provisions of this
Article shall not be affected thereby. All the provisions of this
Article shall be liberally construed.
   Section 624. The provisions of this Article shall supersede
and control all other provisions of the Charter in conflict
therewith. To all other extents, the powers, duties, and func-
tions heretofore vested in the Council, or any of the officials,
boards, or departments of the City, shall be unimpaired.
   Section 625. Port Area. The " P o r t A r e a " under the ex-
clusive jurisdiction of the Board of Port Commissioners shall
be the same area that existed immediately prior to the adop-
tion of this Section, as it has been defined by Charter and by
ordinance, and as it may hereafter be altered by Council ordi-
nance in accordance with and upon the recommendation of
the Board, or by amendment of this Charter.
   Section 626. Without denial or disparagement of other
powers now held by or that may hereafter be given to the
 City of Oakland or its legislative bodies under or by the Con-
3564              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 21

stitution or the laws of the State of California, the City Coun-
cil and Board of Port Commissioners are hereby authorized
and empowered to grant and convey all or any portion of or
interest in the tidelands and submerged lands located in the
Middle Harbor area of the City, lying between the Estuary
of San Antonio and Seventh Street, and westward of Bay
Street extended southerly, to the United States of America
for public or governmental (including military or naval) pur-
poses, subject to such terms, conditions, and reservations, if
any, as the Council and Board shall deem proper. No ordi-
nance or other measure passed in respect to any such grant
shall be subject to the referendum provisions of this Char-
ter. All proceedings heretofore taken to accomplish such a
grant are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved, and the
completion thereof and making of such grant is hereby au-
thorized.
   Section 627. Land Use and Development. The Board shall
develop and use property within the Port Area for any pur-
pose in conformity with the General Plan of the City. Any
variation therefrom shall have the concurrence of the appro-
priate City board or commission; provided, that the Board
may appeal to the Council for final determination of adverse
decisions of such board or commission, in accordance with
uniform procedures established by the Council.

                          Article VII
                     Fiscal Administration
   Section 700. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year for the City
shall commence on the first day of July of each year.
   Section 701. Budget. Each department, office and agency
of the City shall provide in the form and at the time di-
rected by the City Manager all information required by him
to develop a budget conforming to modern budget practices
and procedures as well as specific information which may
be prescribed by the Council. Not later than May 31 of each
year, the City Manager shall prepare and present to the
Council, in such form and manner as it may prescribe, budget
recommendations for the next succeeding fiscal year. Follow-
ing public budget hearing, the Council shall adopt by resolu-
tion a budget of proposed expenditures and appropriations
necessary therefor for the ensuing year, failing which the
appropriations for current operations of the last fiscal year
shall be deemed effective until the new budget and appropria-
tion measures are adopted.
   Section 702. Levy of Property Tax. Not later than the
date set by state law for this purpose, the Council shall by
resolution fix the rate of property tax to be levied and levy
the tax upon all taxable property in the City. Such rate shall
be adequate to meet all obligations of the City for the fiscal
year, taking into account estimated revenue from all other
Res. Ch. 21]        1969 REGULAR SESSION                  3565

sources. Should the Council fail to fix the rate and levy taxes
within the time prescribed, the rate for the next preceding
fiscal year shall thereupon be automatically effective, and a
tax at such rate shall be levied upon all taxable property in
the City for the current fiscal year.
   Section 703. Cash Pool Operations. Municipal obliga-
tions may be financed by cash pool operations and utilization
of a check system (as contrasted with a warrant system).
Except for those funds restricted by bond indentures, state
or federal law, other sections of this Charter or specific con-
ditions of the legislation creating them, temporary transfers
between funds are permitted.
   Section 704. Funds. The Council shall create, reduce or
eliminate such Funds as are required for proper accounting
and fiscal management, or required as a condition of receiv-
ing funds from any other government, or to fulfill any bonded
or other contractual obligation of the City.
   Section 705. Accounting System. The City Manager shall
establish and maintain a system of financial procedures, ac-
counts and controls for the City government and each of its
departments, offices and agencies which shall conform to gen-
erally accepted principles of accounting which shall be ade-
quate to account for all monies on hand and for all income
and expenditures in such detail as will provide complete and
informative data concerning the financial affairs of the City
and in such manner as the Council may prescribe and as will
be readily susceptible to audit and review.
   Section 706. Receipts and Expenditures. All monies re-
ceived by the City shall be deposited in the City Treasury,
and no monies shall be disbursed from the treasury without
the approval of the City Manager or of another officer duly
authorized by him. No expenditure of City funds shall be
made except for the purposes and in the manner specified
by an appropriation of the Council; nor shall any disburse-
ment be made unless obligations are properly supported by
accounting evidence, sufficient money is available in the City
Treasury and there is an adequate unencumbered appropria-
tion balance in the proper account classification. The City
Manager or other officer authorized by him to make disburse-
ments shall be represented by the City Attorney in all legal
matters in connection therewith, except as provided other-
wise in Section 301.
   Section 707. Goods and Services. The City Manager or an
officer authorized by him shall purchase or contract for equip-
ment, materials, supplies and public works required by the
City in the manner prescribed by ordinance, except as other-
wise provided herein.
   Section 708. Bids and Awards. The Council shall estab-
lish by ordinance the conditions and procedures for any pur-
chase or contract, including advertising and bidding require-
ments, and may provide that all bids may be rejected. The
3566              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Ees. Ch. 21
ordinance may provide that under specified conditions, which
the Council must find and determine exist in each applicable
instance, advertising and bidding may be dispensed with.
   Section 709. Annual Audit. The Mayor upon approval
of the Council shall engage during the first month of each
fiscal year an independent certified public accountant who
shall examine and report to the Council on the annual fi-
nancial statement of the City. He shall have free access to
the books, records, inventories and reports of all officers and
employees who receive, handle, or disburse public funds, and
of such other officers, employees, or departments as the Coun-
cil may direct. He shall submit his audit as soon as practi-
cable after the closing of the books for the fiscal year for
which he is engaged. Copies of such audit reports shall be
filed with the Council, and shall be available for public in-
spection and review.
   Section 710. Deposit and Investment. The City Manager
shall arrange for the deposit in the City Treasury or in desig-
nated banks of all funds collected by any department or
agency of the City, according to a schedule prescribed by
him. After taking into account the amounts required to meet
the current and pending requirements of the City, the City
Manager may arrange for the term deposit or investment in
securities authorized by law of any balances available for
such purpose and the yield therefrom shall be credited as
revenue to the general fund unless otherwise provided by
law or directed by the Council.
   Section 711. Official Bonds. The Council shall determine
by ordinance which officers and employees shall be subject
to group or individual bonds to insure the faithful perform-
ance of official duties, shall fix the amount of such bonds and
shall provide payment of the premium of such bonds by the
City.
   Section 712. Revenue Bonds. The Council may issue rev-
enue bonds for any lawful purpose in such manner and upon
such terms and conditions as it may fix and establish by the
provisions of a procedural ordinance; provided, however, that
in the procedure for the issuance of any such bonds for the
acquisition, construction or establishment of any gas, electric
or telephone system, the general laws of the State of Cali-
fornia in force at the time such proceedings are taken shall
be observed and followed.

                         Article V I I I
                  Personnel Administration
  Section 800. Personnel Policy. It is the policy of the City
that there shall be a comprehensive personnel system based on
merit and such system shall be continued and maintained for
the purpose of providing an equitable and uniform procedure
for dealing with personnel matters; to serve the mutual in-
                    1969
Res. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                  3557

 terests of the people, the City as an employer and its employees
 through accepted modern concepts and practices of public per-
 sonnel administration; to attract to municipal service the best
and most competent person available; to assure that appoint-
ments •will be based on merit and fitness as ascertained by
practical competitive examination and by records of achieve-
ment; and to provide the employees security of tenure, with
advancement or promotion within the service where practicable
from among employees having appropriate qualifications, free
of discrimination, subject to their adherence to established
standards of performance and conduct, all as more particularly
hereinafter set forth in this article.
   Section 801. Enforcement and Administration. The pro-
visions of this article, and of the ordinances and rules adopted
to give effect thereto, shall be enforced by a Civil Service
Board. The Board shall be constituted and appointed as pro-
vided in Article V. The Board shall be responsible for the
general supervision of the personnel system, without impair-
ment of the responsibility and duty of the City Manager,
department heads and other supervisory personnel to exercise
the administrative discretion vested in them by this Charter,
or by ordinance.
   Section 802. The Competitive Service. The Council may
establish departments, divisions, offices and positions of em-
ployment by ordinance, and may change or abolish the same
and prescribe their powers, functions and duties. The Council
may by resolution provide for temporary employment of serv-
ices when required. The competitive Civil Service shall include
all offices and employments in the City government except:
    (a) Offices required by this Charter to be filled by election
or to be appointed by the Mayor and City Council.
   (b) One secretary and all professional and administrative
assistants in the office of the City Manager; the Mayor's sec-
retary and an assistant and such other staff as authorized by
Council; one secretary and one assistant to the City Attorney
and the Auditor respectively; and the heads of such other
departments and an assistant to each as may be provided for
by ordinance. The City Manager, the Mayor, the City Attor-
ney, and the Auditor shall respectively appoint such exempt
personnel.
   (c) Department heads, one secretary to the executive di-
rector, the secretary of the board, commercial representatives
and freight and cargo handlers and checkers employed by the
Port Department; also such others engaged in the handling of
ships and shipping as are found by both the Board of Port
Commissioners and the action of the Civil Service Board as
provided for pursuant to Article V to hold positions peculiar
to the operations of the Port as a commercial enterprise.
    (d) Part-time employees who are regularly employed for
less than one-half the established working hours throughout
the year; or those who are employed in any seasonal employ-
ment for not more than 120 days in any consecutive 12 months.
3568              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [ R e s Qfr 21

   (e) Individuals or organizations engaged by contract after
a finding by the Council or the Board of Port Commissioners,
as the jurisdiction may be, that the service is of a professional,
scientific or technical nature and is temporary in nature, or
after finding by vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Council or said Board that the performance of the service
by contract, regardless of nature or term, is in the public
interest because of economy or better performance; provided,
that no such contract for service shall result in the loss of
employment or salary by any person having permanent status
in the competitive service.
   (f) Such additional positions as may be excepted upon the
recommendation of the Council, approved by the Civil Service
Board as provided for pursuant to Article V.
   Section 803. Provisional Appointments. When there is no
appropriate eligible list, provisional appointments to positions
in the competitive civil service may be made pending the cre-
ation of such lists, but such provisional employment may not
extend beyond the creation of the list nor in any event may
such employment be renewed or extended beyond 120 days.
   Section 804. Personnel Ordinance. The Council shall by
ordinance provide a modern system of personnel administra-
tion for the competitive civil service.
   Section 805. Continuation. Pending adoption of the ordi-
nance required in Section 804, the provisions of Article X I I I ,
as the same appeared in the Charter immediately prior to the
adoption of this section, shall continue in full force and effect
except as the same may hereafter be changed by amendment
thereof in the manner provided by law for the amendment of
charter provisions. Said provisions of Article X I I I shall cease
to have any force or effect immediately upon the adoption of
the ordinance required in Section 804. The rules of the Civil
Service Board shall remain effective until modified as author-
ized by ordinance pursuant to Article V.
   Section 806. Improper Political Activity. No city em-
ployee shall engage in or participate in any political activity
contrary to any general law applicable to such employee. No
city officer or official shall solicit or obtain from any city
employee a contribution of services, money or any other thing
of value, for any election or campaign purpose.
   Section 807. Nepotism. The Mayor or City Council shall
not appoint as an employee or officer, to receive any compen-
sation from the City, any person who is a relative by blood
or marriage within the third degree of the Mayor or any
one or more of the members of the Council, nor shall the City
Manager or any other appointing authority appoint to any
such position any relative of his or of the Mayor or any mem-
ber of the Council within such degree of kinship.
   Section 808. Social Security. Provisions for an employee
retirement system shall not be construed to prevent the City
                    1969
Res. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                   3569

and its employees from participating in any state or national
social security system to the extent permitted by law for
public employees.
   Section 809. Authority to Join Pension System. Notwith-
standing the pro-visions of Section 1109 the City, by and
through its Council, may join, or arrange for reciprocity of
membership in, or continue as a contracting agency in, any
retirement or pension system or systems existing or hereafter
created under state or federal law to or in which municipali-
ties and municipal officers or employees are eligible, either for
all such officers and employees, or for less than all on the basis
of a reasonable classification, provided that no employee or
officer or classification thereof shall be unreasonably omitted
from all systems referred to in this section or in Section 808
of this Charter.
                             Article I X
         Franchises, Licenses, Permits, Leases and Sales
   Section 900. Franchises, Licenses, Permits. The Council
shall have authority to grant or issue franchises, licenses and
permits for the transaction of business or the providing of
services, or for the use of public streets or other public places,
and to provide by ordinance the procedure for the granting
or issuing thereof, the taxes, charges, fees or other compensa-
tion to be paid therefor and the penalties for the violation
thereof.
   Section 901. Leases, Sales. The Council shall have author-
ity to lease or sell real and personal property owned or con-
trolled by the City in accordance with such uniform procedure
as it shall adopt by ordinance, provided, however, that no
lease of real property shall be for a term in excess of sixty-six
years.
   Section 902. Right to Acquire. No franchise grant shall
be construed to impair or affect the right of the City, acting
pursuant to law, to acquire the property of the grantee either
by purchase or through the exercise of the right of eminent
domain.
                             Article X
                             Elections
  Section 1000. Municipal Nominating Election. Municipal
Nominating Elections for the nomination of officers and for
such other purposes as the Council may prescribe shall be held
in the City on the third Tuesday in April in each odd-num-
bered year.
  Section 1001. General Municipal Elections. General Mu-
nicipal Elections for the election of officers and for such other
purposes as the Council may prescribe shall be held in the
City on the fourth Tuesday after each Municipal Nominating
Election.
3570               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Bes. Ch. 21

   Section 1002. Special Municipal Elections. All other mu-
nicipal elections that may be held by the authority of this
Charter or of any law shall be known as Special Municipal
Elections.
   Section 1003. Election Procedure. The mode, manner,
form and procedure for nominations, qualifications, petitions,
filing—including fees therefor and amounts thereof—and elec-
tions, for elective office, may be provided by ordinance. Except
as may be otherwise provided by ordinance, declarations of
candidacy, nominations for election, all elections and all pro-
cedures relating thereto shall be in accordance with the appli-
cable provisions of state law.
   Section 1004. Initiative, Referendum and Recall. The
People of the City reserve to themselves the powers of initia-
tive and referendum and the recall of elected officials, to be
exercised in the manner prescribed by general law of the
State.
                             Article X I
                       General Provisions
   Section 1100. Conflict of Interest. No officer of the City
may participate on behalf of the City in any transaction or
activity in which he has a conflict of interest, as such conflict
is defined by State Law. The penalty for violation of this sec-
tion shall be as provided by State Law.
   Section 1101. Incompatible Employment. Each officer
and employee shall, during his hours of active duty, devote his
whole time, attention and efforts to his office or employment,
and he may not be required to perform any service except for
the benefit of the City. No officer or employee of the City may
engage in any employment, activity or enterprise which has
been determined to be inconsistent, incompatible or in conflict
with his duties or with the duties, functions and responsibil-
ities of the department or other agency in which he is em-
ployed. The City Manager, or the City Attorney, or the Audi-
tor, as to personnel under their respective jurisdictions, shall
declare the activities which will be considered inconsistent,
incompatible or in conflict with, or inimical to, the duties of
such personnel as city employees. In making this determina-
tion, consideration shall be given to employment, activity or
enterprise which: (a) involves the use for private gain or ad-
vantage of city time, facilities, equipment and supplies, or the
badge, uniform, prestige or influence of one's city office or em-
ployment; or (b) involves receipt by the officer or employee of
any money or other consideration for the performance of any
act required of him as a City officer or employee; or (c) in-
volves the performance of an act in other than his capacity as
City officer or employee which act may later be subject di-
rectly or indirectly, to control, inspection, review, audit or
enforcement by him or by the agency in which he is em-
ployed.
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 21]               REGULAR SESSION                  3 5 7 1


   Section 1102. Conflict in office. The Mayor and members
of the Council shall not hold any other municipal office or any
other office or employment to receive compensation from the
City; or be appointed or elected to any office created by the
Council while he is a member thereof, until at least one year
shall have expired after the expiration of the term for which
he was elected.
   Section 1103. Gifts and Trusts. The Council shall have
the power to accept gifts and trusts in behalf of the City and
to control, manage, dispose of and otherwise administer the
same in accordance with their terms.
   Section 1104. Title to Property. All real property ac-
quired by the City shall be held in the name of " T h e City of
Oakland".
   Section 1105. Public Notice. Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this Charter or by general law, the Council shall, by
ordinance applying to all agencies of the City, designate the
time and conditions under which adequate public notice
should be given, through publication or otherwise, of the
pending consideration of ordinances, invitations to bid, and
awards of contracts or leases, notices of intention to grant
franchise, election proceedings and other matters requiring
public notice in accordance with this Charter, any ordinance
enacted pursuant thereto or general state law. Publication, if
required, shall be in an official newspaper designated annually
by the Council, which shall be a newspaper printed and pub-
lished in the City of Oakland and which shall have a daily
circulation within the City of at least 25,000.
   Section 1106. Oath of Office. Every officer of the City,
before entering upon his duties, shall take the following oath
and file the same with the City Clerk: " I solemnly swear or
affirm that I will support the constitution of the United
States, the constitution of the State of California, and the
Charter of the City of Oakland, and will truly and to the best
of my abilities perform the duties of the office of              "
   Section 1107. Oaths and Subpoenas. Every officer and
 every member of any Board provided for in this Charter shall,
 in all matters relevant to his office, have the power to adminis-
ter oaths and affirmations and to issue subpoenas to compel the
 production of books, papers and documents and to take testi-
 mony on any matter pending before him. If any person sub-
 poenaed fails or refuses to appear or to produce required
 documents or to testify, said officer or the majority of the
 members of the board or commission may find him in con-
 tempt, and shall have power to take the proceedings in that
 behalf provided by the general law of the State.
    Section 1108. Violation. The violation of any provision
 of this Charter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and be punish-
 able upon conviction in the manner provided by State Law.
    Section 1109. Previous Charter Provisions Continued.
 Section 91(e) added by Stats. Feb. 1959, Sections 97(f),
3572              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 21

33(1) through 33(10), 92£ through 96f, 100£ through 104c,
199(d), all the sections of Article XXVI and all the sections
of Article XXVII, as the same appeared in the Charter imme-
diately prior to the adoption of this section, are by this refer-
ence hereby continued in full force and effect, and ratified, by
the adoption of this section as if the same were herein printed
and set forth in full. Said sections shall be printed in the ap-
pendix to this revised Charter and shall be renumbered
therein as sections of said appendix. All sections and articles
of the said Charter, as the same existed immediately prior to
the adoption of this section, other than the hereinabove speci-
fied sections and articles thereof which are ratified and con-
tinued in full force and effect by the adoption of this section,
are hereby repealed by the adoption of this section.
   Section 1110. Construction and Separability. If any pro-
vision of this Charter or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Charter
and the application of such provisions to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
   Section 1111. Effective Date. This Charter shall take ef-
fect upon the filing with the Secretary of State of the con-
current resolution of its approval by the State Legislature.

  And we further certify that we have compared the fore-
going proposed and ratified new Charter of the City of Oak-
land with the original proposal submitting the same to the
electors of said City, and find that the foregoing is a full,
true and correct copy thereof.
  I n witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the said City of Oakland to be affixed
hereto this 4th day of December, 1968.
                             J O H N H. READING
  (SEAL)                     Mayor of the City of Oakland
                             GLADYS H. MURPHY
                             City Clerk of the City of Oakland
and
   "WHEREAS, The said proposed new charter as ratified as
hereinabove set forth has been and is now duly presented and
submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for
approval or rejection as a whole without power of alteration
or amendment in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I
of the Constitution of the State of California; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said new Charter of the City of Oakland as proposed
to, and adopted and ratified by the electors of the said city
as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same is hereby ap-
proved as a whole, without amendment or alteration, for and
as the Charter of the said City of Oakland.
                      19(
Res. Ch. 22]            «> HEGULAR SESSION                           3573

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 22
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 4—Relative to the issuing of a
  commemorative postage stamp and a presidential proclama-
  tion regarding Angelo Noce, "The Father of Columbus Day
  in America."
           [Filed with Secretary of State J a n u a r y 29, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, During his life, Angelo Noce gave unselfishly
of his time to make Columbus Day a legal holiday; and
   WHEREAS, Columbus Day was first officially proclaimed by
Colorado Governor Jesse F . McDonald as a legal holiday in
the State of Colorado; and
   WHEREAS, TWO years later in 1907 Colorado's Governor
Henry A. Buchtel signed the Columbus Day Bill, inspired
and written by Noce, into law making Columbus Day a state
holiday; and
   WHEREAS, Angelo Noce devoted most of his life to making
Columbus Day a national holiday, and when he died in the
year 1922 at the age of 74, 35 states had adopted his worthy
proposal; and
   WHEREAS, Angelo Noce should be known as the " F o u n d e r
and Father of Columbus Day in America," and proper trib-
ute should be given by the United States of America; and
   WHEREAS, Angelo Noce contributed to the history and
color of the State of California by working in the "Mother
Lode" goldfields, attending school in Jackson, enrolling in
the first class at St. Mary's College in 1863, studying print-
ing and journalism at Santa Clara University, and working
on the Amador Dispatch in Jackson; and
   WHEREAS, Angelo Noce contributed greatly to the history
and color of the State of Colorado by becoming deeply in-
volved in politics and civic affairs in representing Denver's
growing Italian-American community, as deputy county as-
sessor, as constable, as deputy sheriff, as clerk in the Colo-
rado House of Representatives, and as nominee in 1898 for
 a seat in the Legislature; and
   WHEREAS, Angelo Noce also enjoyed renown as a promi-
nent Fourth Degree Knight of Columbus, Catholic Lay
Apostle, an outstanding citizen and patriot; now, thera^jre,
 be it
    Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State • t Cali.
 fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of Cali-
 fornia recommend that the Post Office Department of the
 United States of America print a commemorative stamp
 honoring Angelo Noce as the " F o u n d e r and F a t h e r of
 Columbus Day " ; and be it further
    Resolved, That Richard M. Nixon, President of the United
 States of America, be requested to proclaim October 5 to
  October 12, 1969, Angelo Noce Week; and be it further
3574               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Bes. Ch. 23

  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President of the United
States and the Postmaster General of the United States.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 23
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 14—Relative
                 to Industrial Safety Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 29, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The strength of the economy of this state is based
upon the men and women whose labors create the products of
agriculture, business, and industry; and
   WHEREAS, The continued growth of this, the largest state
in the nation, its productivity and prosperity, depends upon
the preservation of the health, safety and well-being of this
labor force; and
   WHEREAS, The Department of Industrial Relations and its
Division of Industrial Safety will conduct the Governor's In-
dustrial Safety Conference on February 6 and 7, 1969,
wherein representatives of management, labor, and the public
will meet to further advance California's outstanding per-
formance in industrial safety achievements; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of February 2 through 8 as In-
dustrial Safety Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the members urge all citizens of California
to recognize and follow good safety practices all this week and
all the remaining weeks of the year; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and to the Department
of Industrial Relations.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 24
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 12—Relative to
               commending Dr. Fred 0. Butler.
           [Filed with Secretary of State January 30, I960.]

  WHEREAS, It was with the most sincere sense of pleasure
that the Members of the Legislature learned that Dr. Fred
0. Butler will be honored at a recognition banquet at Sonoma
State Hospital on January 31, 1969, for his service to Cali-
fornia as Superintendent of Sonoma State Hospital; and
  WHEREAS, Dr. Butler, who will celebrate his 90th birth-
day upon the occasion of the banquet, was born in Russiaville,
Indiana, and, after pursuing a business college course, traveled
                   1969
Res. Ch. 24]              REGULAR SESSION                 3575

to New York and worked as a nurse at Bellevue Hospital in
order to earn funds to pursue his medical education; and
   "WHEREAS, After graduating in 1912 from the Chicago Col-
lege of Medicine and Surgery, he spent a year as an intern at
a private hospital in Chicago before moving west to California
in November 1913 and assuming the position of senior intern
at Sonoma State Home, as the hospital was then known; and
   WHEREAS, A little over a year later, Dr. Butler was pro-
moted to assistant superintendent and, in March 1918, became
superintendent of the institution, serving in that position for
31 years, the longest record of service of any superintendent
of the hospital; and
   WHEREAS, Upon his retirement in 1949, Dr. Butler became
medical director of the Human Betterment Association, known
today as the Association for Voluntary Sterilization, and
traveled in that capacity throughout the United States pro-
moting the program of the association, which urges voluntary
sterilization of the mentally defective and mentally ill; and
   WHEREAS, In the latter half of the 1950s he acted as a spe-
cial consultant on surveys of facilities for the mentally re-
tarded in Colorado, Idaho, and Wyoming and, at the request
of the Governor of Colorado, made a three-year survey of that
state, studying and developing master plans for its institu-
tions for the mentally retarded; and
   WHEREAS, Dr. Butler has been active in professional organi-
zations throughout his long career, serving as past acting Di-
rector of the California State Department of Institutions, past
President of the American Association on Mental Deficiency,
past President of the Association of Western Hospitals, past
President of the Northern California Council of Exceptional
Children, past President of Northern California Mental Health
Association, past Chairman of the Psychiatric Section of the
California Medical Society, past President of the Sonoma
County Mental Health Society, Organizer and First Chairman
of the Western Region of the American Association on Mental
Deficiency, Delegate to the Second International Congress of
Mental Hygiene held in Paris, and past President of the
Sonoma County Medical Society, and he is a Fellow in the
American Psychiatric Association and the American Associa-
tion on Mental Deficiency; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members commend Dr.
Fred 0. Butler upon his long and distinguished career as Su-
perintendent of Sonoma State Hospital in service to those less
fortunate individuals who are mentally ill or defective, and
extend their most sincere wishes to him for continued success
in all his endeavors in the future; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Dr. Fred 0 . Butler.
3576                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [Reg   C h   25


                 EESOLUTION CHAPTBE 25
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 20—Relative to proclaiming
               Children's Dental Health Week.
            [Filed with Secretary of State January 30, 1969.]

  "WHEBEAS, The week of February 2nd through 8th marks
the 21st anniversary of the annual observation of National
Children's Dental Health "Week, sponsored by dentists and
dental societies in thousands of communities throughout the
nation; and
  WHEBEAS, Observance of this week is designed to impress
the importance of good dental health upon the nation's youth;
and
  "WHEBEAS, The 1969 theme is Join the " S m i l e - I n " ; now,
therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring. That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of February 2nd through 8th as
"Children's Dental Health "Week"; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 26
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 16—Relative to the crea-
  tion of the Joint Committee on Teacher Licensing and
  Public School Employment.
            [Filed with Secretary of State February 3, 1969.]

   "WHEKEAS, The Joint Committee on Teacher Credentialing
Practices was created by Eesolution Chapter 176 (A.C.R. 94)
of the Statutes of 1967, and continued in existence by Eesolu-
tion Chapter 21 (A.C.E. 5) of the Statutes of 1968, with
authority to file its final report not later than the fifth legisla-
tive day of the 1969 Eegular Session; and
   WHEBEAS, The Joint Committee on Public School Employ-
ment was created by Eesolution Chapter 266 (A.C.E. 169) of
the Statutes of 1968, with authority to file its final report not
later than March 31, 1969; and
   WHEBEAS, The Joint Committee on Public School Employ-
ment will file its final report not later than March 31,1969, but
in the interest of efficiency and completeness of study of the
entire field of public school employment, including certificated
employees and requirements for credentials, it is deemed wise
that the two areas of study presently being reviewed by the
two joint committees be combined for investigation by a new
joint committee; and
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 26]               REGULAR SESSION                 3577

   WHEREAS, I n order that the area of study of the new com-
mittee may be adequately reviewed and a meaningful report
developed, the final report of the Joint Committee on Teacher
Credentialing Practice shall be included in the final report to
be filed by the newly created joint committee; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, As follows:
   1. The Joint Committee on Teacher Licensing and Public
School Employment is hereby created and authorized and
directed to ascertain, study and analyze all facts relating to
the number of employees in public school employment, the
ratio of nonteaching employees to teaching employees, as more
fully set forth in Assembly Bill No. 1674 of the 1968 Kegular
Session, the present requirement for an academic major or
nonacademic major (except education) for an elementary cre-
dential, the use of undergraduates as " a i d e s " in elementary
schools to partially fulfill practice teaching requirements,
course-hour requirements for minor subjects for elemen-
tary and secondary (particularly vocational) teachers, the
mechanics of teacher credentialing, and in particular the
possibility of reducing the number of different types of cre-
dentials and of using teachers not fully credentialed in experi-
mental programs, and including, but not limited to, the opera-
tion, effect, administration, enforcement and needed revision
of any and all laws in any way bearing upon or relating to the
subject of this resolution, and to report thereon to the Legis-
 lature, including in the report its recommendations for appro-
priate legislation.
    2. The committee shall consist of three Members of the
Senate, appointed by the Committee on Eules thereof, and
three Members of the Assembly, appointed by the Speaker
thereof. Vacancies occurring in the membership of the com-
mittee shall be filled by the appointing power.
   3. The committee is authorized to act during this session of
the Legislature, including any recess, and after final adjourn-
ment until the 31st day of January, 1970, with authority to
file its final report not later than the fifth legislative day of
the 1970 Eegular Session.
   4. The committee and each subcommittee thereof is author-
ized to leave the State of California in the performance of its
duties.
   5. The committee and its members shall have and exercise
all of the rights, duties and powers conferred upon investi-
gating committees and their members by the provisions of the
Joint Eules of the Senate and Assembly as they are adopted
and amended from time to time at this session, which provi-
sions are incorporated herein and made applicable to this com-
mittee and its members.
   6. The committee has the following additional powers and
duties:
3578               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 27

   (a) To select a chairman and a vice chairman from its
membership.
   (b) To contract with such other agencies, public or private,
as it deems necessary for the rendition and affording of such
services, facilities, studies and reports to the committee as will
best assist it to carry out the purposes for which it is created.
   (c) To cooperate with and secure the cooperation of county,
city, city and county, and other local law enforcement agencies
in investigating any matter within the scope of this resolution
 and to direct the sheriff of any county to serve subpoenas,
orders and other process issued by the committee.
   (d) To report its findings and recommendations to the
Legislature and to the people from time to time and at any
time, not later than herein provided.
   (e) To do any and all other things necessary or convenient
to enable it fully and adequately to exercise its powers, per-
form its duties, and accomplish the objects and purposes of
this resolution.
   7. The sum of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) plus
any unencumbered and unexpended amounts allocated to
the Joint Committee on Teacher Credentialing Practices cre-
ated by Resolution Chapter 176 (A.C.E. 94) of the Statutes
of 1967 and continued in existence by Resolution Chapter
 21 (A.C.R. 5) of the Statutes of 1968 and to the Joint Com-
mittee on Public School Employment created by Resolution
 Chapter 266 (A.C.R. 169) of the Statutes of 1968 or so
much thereof as may be necessary is hereby made available
from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for
the expenses of the committee and its members and for any
charges, expenses or claims it may incur under this resolution,
to be paid from the said fund and disbursed, after certification
by the chairman of the committee, upon warrants drawn by
the State Controller upon the State Treasurer.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 27
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 24—Approving            certain
  amendments to the Charter of the City of Bakersfield,
  County of Kern, State of California, voted for and ratified
  by the electors of said City of Bakersfield at an election held
  therein on the fifth day of November, 1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 3, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, The City of Bakersfield, in the County of Kern,
State of California, has at all times mentioned herein been and
now is a municipal corporation of the State of California, con-
taining a population of seventy-one thousand, one hundred six
inhabitants as ascertained by the last preceding census taken
under the authority of the Legislature of California, and is
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 27]                REGULAR SESSION                    3579
now and has been ever since the twenty-third day of January,
1915, organized and existing under a freeholders' charter
adopted under and by virtue of Section 8, Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California, which charter was duly
ratified by the qualified electors of said city at an election held
for that purpose on the 7th day of November, 1914, and ap-
proved by the Legislature of the State of California in Janu-
ary, 1915; and filed with the Secretary of State on J a n u a r y 23,
1915; and
   WHEEEAS, On the 3rd day of September, 1968, the legislative
body of the City of Bakersfield, to wit: the City Council, on
its own motion passed a resolution to submit to the electors of
said city, at a special election to be held November 5, 1968,
certain proposed amendments to the City Charter of the City
of Bakersfield, on said date, the City Council of the City of
Bakersfield duly and regularly called a special election for the
purpose of voting on said proposed amendments, to be held
on the 5th day of November, 1968, which said date was fixed
by the said City Council of the City of Bakersfield as the time
for voting on said amendments as proposed, and which said
election was consolidated with the State General Election held
within said City on said date, and
   "WHEEEAS, Said proposed amendments were published on the
10th and 16th days of September, 1968, in each edition of The
Bakersfield Californian, a newspaper of general circulation
printed and published in the City of Bakersfield, and having a
general circulation therein, the said paper being the official
newspaper of the City of Bakersfield, and said publication was
made at the time and in the manner prescribed in Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; and
   WHEEEAS, On the 10th day of October, 1968, the City Clerk
of the City of Bakersfield caused to have copies of said pro-
posed charter amendments printed in a one-sheet pamphlet
form; subsequently from October 19, 1968 through October 21,
1968, the County Clerk of the County of Kern had a copy of
the one-sheet pamphlet setting forth said proposed charter
amendments mailed to all the qualified electors of the City of
Bakersfield in the form of and in the manner provided by Sec-
tion 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of Cali-
fornia ; and
   WHEREAS, Said special election was duly and regularly held
on the 5th day of November, 1968, which said date of the elec-
tion was not less than forty nor more than sixty days after the
completion of the advertising in said official newspaper of said
proposed amendments, and at said special election the said
proposed amendments to said Charter were voted upon by the
qualified electors of the City of Bakersfield, and at said special
election a majority of the qualified electors voting thereon
voted in favor of ratifying and did ratify said proposed amend-
ments to said Charter.
   That the Charter of the City of Bakersfield be amended as
follows:
3580               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Res. Ch. 27

                        Proposition No. 1
   That Section 66 of the Charter of the City of Bakersfield be
amended to read as follows:
Mode of Election
   Section 66. The mode of nomination and election of all
elective officers of the city shall be as provided in this article.
   That Section 145 of the Charter of the City of Bakersfield
be amended to read as follows:
Membership
   Section 145. The Board of Education shall consist of five
 (5) members. Thereafter members of the Board of Education
shall be elected at the election to be held each odd-numbered
year. Members of the Board of Education shall be elected by
all qualified registered electors of the City of Bakersfield and
that portion of the Bakersfield School District outside of said
city. Arrangements shall be made so that registered qualified
electors residing within the limits of the Bakersfield School
District and without the limits of the City of Bakersfield may
vote for such members of the Board of Education at such elec-
tion.
   That Section 147 of the Charter of the City of Bakersfield
be amended to read as follows:
Term of Office
   Section 147. The members of the Board of Education first
elected under this charter shall, at their first meeting, so
classify themselves by lot, that two shall serve for two years
and three for four years.
   That Section 150 of the Charter of the City of Bakersfield
be amended to read as follows:
Meetings
   Section 150. The Board of Education shall meet at such
times as may be designated by resolution of said board.
   That Section 153 of the Charter of the City of Bakersfield
be amended to read as follows:
Meetings to be Public
   Section 153. All meetings of the Board of Education shall
be public, except as otherwise provided in the Government
and Education Codes.
   That Sections 146 and 156 of the Charter of the City of
Bakersfield be repealed.

                        Proposition No. 2
  That Sections 165, 166, 167, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176,
177, 178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 182*, 201, 203, 204 and 238 of the
Charter of the City of Bakersfield be repealed.
and
  WHEREAS, The Council of the City of Bakersfield, County
of Kern, State of California, in accordance with the law in
such cases made and provided, did meet at its usual place of
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 27]               REGULAR SESSION                   3531

meeting, at the time and in the manner provided by law, and
duly canvassed the returns of said election as certified by the
Election Boards, and duly found, determined and declared
that the majority of the qualified electors of said city voting
thereon had voted in favor of, and ratified said amendments
to the Charter of the City of Bakersfield as hereinabove last
set forth, and alleged to have been so ratified; and
   WHEREAS, That the foregoing is true as shown by the cer-
tificate of E. V. Karlen, Mayor of the City of Bakersfield, and
Marian S. Irvin, Clerk of said City, whose certificate is in
words and figures as follows, to wit:

State of California "I
County of Kern        > ss.
City of Bakersfield J

   This is to certify that we, B. V. Karlen, Mayor of the City
of Bakersfield, and Marian S. Irvin, Clerk of the City of
Bakersfield, have compared the foregoing proposed and rat-
ified amendments to the Charter of the City of Bakersfield
with the original proposed amendments submitted to the
qualified electors of the said City of Bakersfield at an election
held within the City of Bakersfield on November 5, 1968, and
find that the foregoing is a full, true, correct and exact copy
of said amendments.
   "We further certify that the facts set forth in the preamble
preceding said amendments to said Charter, and the matters
set forth therein are and each of them is true.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the corporate seal of the City of Bakersfield to be at-
tached this 31st day of December, 1968.

                              R. V.   KARLEN
   (SEAL)                     Mayor of the City of Bakersfield
                              MARIAN S. IRVIN
                              Clerk of the City of Bakersfield
State of California, 7
County of Kern       J ss "

   I, Marian S. Irvin, City Clerk of the City of Bakersfield,
State of California, hereby certify the foregoing and annexed
to be a full, true and correct copy of the original Concurrent
Resolution approving certain amendments to the Charter of
the City of Bakersfield, County of Kern, State of California,
on file in this office and that I have compared the same with
the original.
  Witness my hand and seal this 17th day of January, 1969.

                                         MARIAN S. IRVIN
   (SEAL)                                City Clerk
                                         By VIVIAN B. STINER
                                         Deputy Clerk
3582                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ R e S - Qh. 28

and
   WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, have been and
now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members elected to
each house voting therefor and concurring therein, That the
amendments to the Charter of the City of Bakersfield, County
of Kern, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by, the elec-
tors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth, are hereby ap-
proved as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for and
as amendments to, and as part of the Charter of the City of
Bakersfield, County of Kern.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 28
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 27—Relative to the death
                   of Melvin J. Bareilles.
            [Filed with Secretary of State February 3, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Assembly have learned with
deep sorrow of the untimely death of Melvin J. Bareilles,
Humboldt County Supervisor; and
   WHEREAS, Melvin J. Bareilles was a native of Oakland and
graduated from University High and later from St. Mary's
College, where he was baseball captain and varsity catcher;
and
   WHEREAS, He came to Scotia, California and became a
valued employee of the Pacific Lumber Company, remaining
there until 1952, when he opened his own accounting office in
which capacity he did accounting and the handling of income
tax returns for hundreds of people in the area; and
   WHEREAS, He was deeply committed to public service win-
ning the 1956 election for Humboldt County Supervisor and
was reelected in 1960, 1964 and 1968 by the citizens of Hum-
boldt County who recognized his undisputed leadership quali-
ties ; and
   WHEREAS, He was an enthusiastic participant in civic affairs,
being a founding director and a vice president of Eel River
Association, chairman of the Redwood Empire Association and
North Coast Supervisors' Unit, a member of the Fortuna and
Rio Dell Chambers of Commerce, and the annual Fortuna
Rodeo; and
   WHEREAS, He is survived by his widow, Mary Biasca
Bareilles, his three fine sons, Jack, Kenneth and P a u l ; and his
two lovely daughters, Monica and Angela; therefore, be it
                         1969
Res. Ch. 291                    REGULAR SESSION                    3583

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members hereby express
their deep sorrow at the death of Melvin J. Bareilles, who will
long be remembered for the important contributions he made
to Humboldt County, and hereby convey their deepest sympa-
thy to his widow and family; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Mrs. Mary Biasca
Bareilles.

                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 29
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 24—Approving a certain
  amendment to the Charter of the City of Mountain View, a
  municipal corporation in the County of Santa Clara, State
  of California, voted for and ratified by the qualified electors
  of said city at a special municipal election consolidated with
  the statewide general election held therein on November 5,
  1968.
               [Filed with Secretary of State February 3, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
proposal, adoption and ratification of the amendment herein-
after set forth to the Charter of the City of Mountain View,
a municipal corporation in the County of Santa Clara, State
of California, as set out in the certificate of the mayor and
the city clerk of said city as follows:

CEBTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
  MOUNTAIN V I E W OF A CERTAIN AMENDMENT TO THE CHARTER
  OF THE CITY OF MOUNTAIN V I E W

State of California   ]
County of Santa Clara \ ss
City of Mountain View J

   We, the undersigned, William R. Jelavich, Mayor of the
City of Mountain View, and Jean Hixson, City Clerk of the
City of Mountain View, do hereby certify and declare as fol-
lows:
   That the City of Mountain View, a municipal corporation,
in the County of Santa Clara, State of California, now is and
at all times herein mentioned was a city containing a popula-
tion of more than three thousand five hundred (3,500), and
ever since the sixth day of March, 1952, has been and is now
organized, existing and acting under a Freeholders Charter
adopted under and by virtue of Section 8 of Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California, which Charter was
duly ratified by qualified electors of said City of Mountain
View at an election held for that purpose on the 15th day of
January, 1952, and approved by the Legislature of the State

     113—1954
3584               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 29

  of California by Concurrent Eesolution No. 3, on March 5,
  1952, and filed with the Secretary of State on March 6, 1952.
    That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of said
 Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
  City Council of the City of Mountain View by its Eesolution
 No. 8000, adopted on the 26th day of August, 1968, duly
 and regularly submitted to the qualified electors of said City
 of Mountain View a certain proposal to amend the Charter of
 the City of Mountain View and to be voted upon by said
 qualified electors at a special municipal charter amendment
 election by said resolution called for said purpose in said City
 on the 5th day of November, 1968, and consolidated with the
 Statewide General Election to be held in said City of Moun-
 tain View on said 5th day of November, 1968.
    That said proposal was published and advertised, in accord-
 ance with the provisions of Section 8 of Article X I of the
 Constitution of the State of California on the 16th day of
 September, 1968, in the Sunnyvale Daily Standard-Mountain
 View Register Leader, the official newspaper of the City of
 Mountain View, and in each edition thereof during said day
 of publication.
    That said special municipal charter amendment election
 consolidated with the Statewide General Election of the City
 of Mountain View was duly called, held and conducted in the
 time, form and manner required by the Charter of said City
 and by law on said 5th day of November, 1968, which day was
 not less than forty (40) days and not more than sixty (60)
 days after the completion of said publication and advertise-
 ment of said proposal in said Sunnyvale Daily Standard-
 Mountain View Register Leader.
    That pursuant to the provisions of Section 22932.5 of the
Elections Code of the State of California, the City Council of
the City of Mountain View did, on the 26th day of August,
 1968, duly pass and adopt that portion of Section 5 of said
Resolution No. 8000, ordering the canvass of said special mu-
nicipal election to be made by the Board of Supervisors of
the County of Santa Clara, State of California.
    That said Board of Supervisors did, in the manner provided
by law, duly and regularly canvass the returns of said special
municipal election consolidated with the Statewide General
Election of the City of Mountain View, as aforesaid, and cer-
tify the results thereof to the Council of said City of Moun-
tain View.
    That the Council of the City of Mountain View did, by
Resolution No. 8144, duly passed and adopted on January 13,
1969, duly find and declare that a majority of the qualified
electors voting on said proposed charter amendment, voted in
favor of same and said proposal to amend the Charter of said
City was ratified.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 29]               REGULAR SESSION                  3535

  That said charter amendment so ratified by the majority of
the qualified electors of said City voting at said special munic-
ipal charter amendment election is in words and figures fol-
lowing, to wit :

     By amending Section 500 of the Charter of the City of
  Mountain View to read as follows:
     "Except as otherwise provided in this Charter the mem-
  bers of the Council shall hold office for a term of four (4)
  years from and after the first Tuesday following their elec-
  tion and continuing until their respective successors qualify.
  Ties among candidates for any office shall be settled by the
  drawing of lots.''

and we, and each of us further certify that we have compared
the foregoing proposed and ratified amendment to the Charter
of the City of Mountain View with the original proposal
submitting the same to the electors of said City and find that
the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of said amend-
ment.
   The foregoing proposed and ratified amendment to the Char-
ter of the City of Mountain View is hereby submitted to the
Legislature of the State of California for approval or rejec-
tion as a whole without power of alteration or amendment in
accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Article X I of
the Constitution of the State of California. As to said amend-
ment, this certificate shall be taken as a full and complete
certification of the regularity of all proceedings had and done
in connection therewith.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the Seal of the City of Mountain View to be affixed
hereto this 16 day of January, 1969.

                    WILLIAM R. JELAVICH
   (SEAL)           Mayor of the City of Mountain View
                    JEAN HIXSON
                    City Clerk of the City of Mountain View
Now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly concurring, a majority of the members elected to each
house voting therefor and concurring therein, That said
amendment to the Charter of the City of Mountain View as
presented to and adopted and ratified by the electors of the
said city and as hereinabove fully set forth, be and the same
is hereby approved as a whole, without amendment, or altera-
tion, for and as an amendment to, and as a part of, the Char-
ter of the said City of Mountain View.
3586               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Rgg. Ch. 30

                [RESOLUTION CHAPTBE 30
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 26—Relative to congratu-
            lating the Monterey Park Progress.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 3, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Legislature has learned that the Monterey
Park Progress is celebrating its 50th year of publication,
which have been five decades of outstanding excellence in this
field of communication; and
   WHEREAS, Under the dynamic leadership of its publisher,
Eli Isenberg, who has held this position for over 20 years, the
Monterey Park Progress has not only won three awards for
editorial excellence but has grown in influence and prosperity;
and
   WHEREAS, I t is the first community newspaper in California
to have a complete editorial page, and in 1957 the Progress'
editorial page was adjudged by the California Newspaper Pub-
lishers' Association as the best editorial page in California;
and
   WHEREAS, I t has always devoted serious and concerned
attention to the issues affecting its community with well-
written news stories and incisive editorial comment; and
   WHEREAS, Its political independence, supporting the most
able and qualified candidates regardless of party affiliation,
has earned the Progress the respect and admiration of the
citizens of Monterey P a r k ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly concurring, That the members congratulate the Mon-
terey Park Progress for 50 years of publication, and commend
it for the distinguished service it has rendered to its commu-
nity, and wish it many more years of outstanding achieve-
ments in the newspaper industry; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to the Monterey Park
Progress and Eli Isenberg.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 31
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 19—Approving an amend-
  ment to the Charter of the City of Inglewood, County of
  Los Angeles, State of California, ratified by the qualified
  electors of the city at an election held therein on the fifth
  day of November, 1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 6, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
proposal, adoption, and ratification of an amendment to the
Charter of the City of Inglewood, a municipal corporation
                    196
Res. Ch. 31]              9 REGULAR SESSION               3587

in the County of Los Angeles, State of California, as herein-
after set forth in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk
of the city, as follows:

   CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION OF ELECTORS OF THE CITY
    OF INGLEWOOD OF A CERTAIN CHARTER AMENDMENT.

State of California   1
County of Los Angeles > ss.
City of Inglewood     J

   "We, the undersigned, William Goedike, Mayor of the City
of Inglewood, County of Los Angeles, State of California, and
Helen Rieck, City Clerk of said City, do hereby declare and
certify as follows:
   That the City of Inglewood, a municipal corporation of the
County of Los Angeles, State of California, now is and at all
times herein mentioned during the year 1968, was a city hav-
ing a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants as ascertained
by the last preceding census taken under the authority of the
Congress of the United States of America, and has been ever
since the year 1927, and now is, organized, existing and acting
under a Freeholders' Charter adopted under and by virtue of
Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of
California, which charter was duly ratified by a majority of
the qualified electors of said City at a special municipal elec-
tion held for that purpose on the 14th day of December, 1926,
and approved by the Legislature of the State of California
on the 27th day of January, 1927 (Statutes and Amendments
of 1927, p . 2205).
   That the City Council of the City of Inglewood, being t h e
legislative body of said city, on its own motion, by its Resolu-
tion No. 5857, adopted July 30, 1968, duly and regularly p r o -
posed and submitted to the qualified electors of the City of
Inglewood a certain proposition for a certain amendment to
the Charter of the City of Inglewood at a special election con-
solidated with the General Election called and held for t h a t
purpose in said City on the 5th day of November, 1968.
   That pursuant to the aforesaid resolution of the City Coun-
cil of the City of Inglewood, the proposed charter amendment
was published and advertised.
   That under and pursuant to proceedings duly and regularly
taken in the manner provided by law, the City Council of t h e
City of Inglewood consolidated said special election with t h e
General Election held in said City of Inglewood on the 5th.
day of November, 1968.
   That in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of
the City of Inglewood and in the manner provided by law,
the said consolidated election was duly and regularly held in
said City, after due notice given and published.
3588               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             rjfeg. Qh. 3 1

   That thereafter the Council of the City of Inglewood did,
in the manner provided by law, duly and regularly canvass
the returns of said consolidated election and did adopt its
resolution declaring the results of the canvass and declaring
the results of the returns of said election.
   That said Council of said City did by said resolution
find, determine and declare that a certain proposed amend-
ment to the Charter of the City of Inglewood and hereinafter
set forth was ratified by a majority vote of the electors of said
City voting thereon.
   That as to the proceedings taken relating to the amendment
to the Charter of the City of Inglewood hereinafter set forth,
the provisions of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution
of the State of California and the laws of the State of Cali-
fornia applicable thereto, have been substantially complied
with.
   That said amendment to the Charter of the City of Ingle-
wood, so ratified by the electors of said City, is as follows:

Charter Amendment No. 1
   Subsection Fiftieth of Section 4 of Article I I I of the Char-
ter of the City of Inglewood hereby is amended so that the
same shall be and read as follows:
   "Fiftieth: To provide at the beginning of the fiscal year
hereafter an emergency fund of fifteen hundred dollars, which
may be used or expended at the sole instance and direction of
the mayor, to be paid out from time to time upon his itemized
demands, for any purpose or emergency connected with the
affairs of his office or of said city, and to reimburse said execu-
tive for any reasonable expenditures made by him in the dis-
charge of his duties, such as the entertainment of visitors and
officials to the said city, stenographic fees, the investigation of
conditions which in the opinion of said official require investi-
gation thereon, and the securing of any other service or thing
required by said official in or about the duties of his office. At
the beginning of each succeeding fiscal year thereafter said
fund shall be replenished to the full extent of any withdrawals
made therefrom during the preceding fiscal year and such
respective succeeding funds shall be subject to the use or ex-
penditure of the mayor as provided for in the case of said first
fund,''
  And we further certify that we have compared the foregoing
proposed and ratified amendment to the Charter of the City of
Inglewood with the original proposal submitting the same to
the electors of said City and find that the foregoing is a full,
true and correct and exact copy thereof.
  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of Inglewood to be affixed this 17th
day of December, 1968.
                      1969
Res. Ch. 32]                 REGULAR SESSION                    3539

                               "WILLIAM GOEDIKE
  (SEAL)                       Mayor of the City of Inglewood,
                                California
                               H E L E N EIECK
                               City Clerk of the City of
                                 Inglewood, California
and
   WHEEEAS, The proposed amendment to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, has been and
now is duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of Inglewood,
County of Los Angeles, as proposed to, and adopted and rati-
fied by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth,
is hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or amend-
ment, for and as an amendment to, and as part of the Charter
of the City of Inglewood, County of Los Angeles.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 32
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 33-—Relative to proclaim-
  ing the week of February 9th to 15th "Beauty         Salon
  Week."
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The professional hairdressers and cosmetologists
of our great state have given generously of their time and
talents to maintain beauty care of the highest standards and
to enhance the beauty of the women of our state; and
   WHEREAS, The National Hairdressers and Cosmetologists
Association will observe its 19th Annual National Beauty Sa-
lon Week during the week of February 9th to 15th, 1969, to
salute the contributions of the profession of cosmetology; and
   WHEREAS, More than 70,000 members of this national pro-
fessional association are conducting public service programs
in our great state, and throughout the nation, to bring pro-
fessional beauty care to less fortunate women confined to
homes for the aged, hospitals, and other institutions; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
proclaim the week of February 9th to 15th, 1969, "Beauty
Salon W e e k " ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Governor.
3590               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ R e g Qh. 33

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 33
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 5—Relative to the
      selection of the Legislative Counsel of California.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That pursuant to Section 10201 of
the Government Code, George H. Murphy is selected Legis-
lative Counsel of California.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 34
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 20—Relative to pro-
  claiming the week of February 16-22, 1969, as National
  Engineers' Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, National Engineers' Week is observed by profes-
sional engineering societies throughout the United States dur-
ing the week of Washington's Birthday; and
   WHEREAS, It is recognized by all that modern civilization
has greatly benefited through the application of scientific prin-
ciples by engineers; and
   WHEREAS, Problems, such as environmental pollution, water
resources, methods of transportation, water desalinization, in-
formation and data handling, air, soil, and water wastes, have
all been greatly reduced due to the efforts of professional engi-
neers ; and
   WHEREAS, California engineers have been responsible for
major achievements in the field of public works, structural
safety of public and commercial buildings, designing and con-
struction of transportation facilities, sanitary facilities, water-
works, communications, and earth and moon orbital explora-
tions; and
   WHEREAS, Much of California's success as the leader among
the states is due to her recognition as a world center for engi-
neering capabilities; and
   WHEREAS, California's continued economic and industrial
growth and development is due, in large measure, to the efforts
and skills of her engineering community; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to issue a proclamation designating the week of Febru-
ary 16th to 22nd as "National Engineers' W e e k " ; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.
                       1S
Res. Ch. 36]            ™ REGULAR SESSION                             3 5 9 1


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 35
Assembly   Concurrent Resolution No. 42—Relative                to   Edison
                     Science Youth Day.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The inventive genius of Thomas Alva Edison has
immeasurably advanced the frontiers of American science and
the welfare of all mankind, and, by creating industries em-
ploying millions of people, has added greatly to the technology
upon which America's preeminence largely rests; and
   "WHEREAS, The state of the world reveals that this nation
needs to maintain a strong scientific position; and
   WHEREAS, In this age of limitless scientific horizons, our
country's need for men inspired by the example of Edison
has never been more urgent; and
  WHEREAS, The motivation of more young Americans toward
careers in science, and the removal of barriers to careers in
scientific fields, are vital in meeting this need for scientific
manpower; and
  WHEREAS, February 11, 1969, marks the 122nd anniversary
of the birth of Thomas Alva Edison; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature hereby re-
quests the Governor to proclaim February 11, 1969, as Edison
Science Youth Day; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy to Walker L. Cisler.

                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 36
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 19—Relative to the passing
                    of Floyd P. Bailey.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature have learned
with deep regret of the death of Floyd P. Bailey, president
emeritus of Santa Rosa Junior College and a founding dean
of the college; and
   WHEREAS, Floyd P. Bailey attended Healdsburg High
School, received a bachelor of science degree from the Uni-
versity of California in 1913 and earned a master of science
degree from the University of California in 1919; and
   WHEREAS, Floyd P. Bailey began his career at Santa Rosa
Junior College as a physics instructor in 1919 and assumed
the position of dean of the college in 1921. He became the
first president of the junior college in 1934 when the chief
administrative office was changed from dean to president; and
   WHEREAS, The Floyd P. Bailey story is the history of Santa
3592               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ J > e s , Cft 37

Eosa Junior College. When he first assumed executive leader-
ship of the college, the junior college was an extension of the
high school. Under his guidance, a permanent home was estab-
lished and the first college building, Pioneer Hall, was com-
pleted on May 18, 1931. He was a strong advocate of a vigor-
ous building program but he never allowed the beauty of the
campus to be disturbed; and
   WHEREAS, Floyd P. Bailey was an inspiration to students
and faculty alike. He gave wise counsel in a friendly manner
to those who sought his advice. He was deeply interested in
students and their problems; and
   WHEREAS, Floyd P. Bailey took an active interest in com-
munity affairs being a member of the Presbyterian Church
of the Eoses, Santa Eosa Kiwanis Club, Santa Rosa Consistory
of Scottish Bite Bodies, Santa Eosa High-12 Club, Santa Eosa
Lodge 57, F & AM, and the University of California Alumni
Association; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members express their sin-
cere condolences and sympathy to the family of Floyd P .
Bailey; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to his widow, Marie.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 37
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 21—-Approving an amend-
  ment to the Charter of the City of Albany, a municipal
  corporation in the County of Alameda, State of California,
  ratified by the qualified electors of the city at an election
  held therein on the fifth day of November, 1968.
          [Filed with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been had for the proposal,
adoption and ratification of an amendment to the Charter of
the City of Albany, a municipal corporation of the County of
Alameda, State of California, as hereinafter set forth in the
certificate of the mayor and acting city clerk of the city as
follows:
CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION BY THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE
  CITY OF ALBANY AT A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD
  ON THE F I F T H DAY OF NOVEMBER, ONE THOUSAND N I N E
  HUNDRED AND SIXTY-EIGHT, OF A CERTAIN AMENDMENT TO
  THE CHARTER OF ALBANY, STATE OF CALDJORNIA.

State of California    ]
County of Alameda      j- ss.
City of Albany         j
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 37]               REGULAR SESSION                 3593

  We, Eichard 0. Clark, Mayor of the City of Albany,
and Bette C. Ehodes, Acting City Clerk of the City of Al-
bany, do hereby certify as follows:
   That said City of Albany, in the County of Alameda, State
of California, is now and was at all times herein mentioned,
a city containing more than 3,500 inhabitants and less than
50,000 inhabitants as ascertained by the last preceding census
taken under the authority of the Congress of the United
States; and
   That said City of Albany is now and was at all times herein
mentioned, organized and existing tinder a Charter adopted
under the provisions of Section 8, of Article X I of the Consti-
tution of the State of California, which Charter was duly
ratified by a majority of the electors of said City at a special
municipal election held therein on the 26th day of March, 1927,
and approved by the Legislature of the State of California
(Statutes 1927, Chapter 53, Page 2312) and by Eesolution of
said Legislature filed with the Secretary of State of the State
of California on the 19th day of April, 1927 (Statutes 1927,
Chapter 53, Page 2312) ; and
   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 8 of Article X I of
the Constitution of the State of California, the Legislative
Body of said City, namely: The City Council of said City, did
on its own motion and pursuant to the provisions of Section 8,
of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California,
duly propose to the electors of said City of Albany a certain
amendment to the Charter of said City, and ordered that said
amendment be submitted to said electors of said City at a spe-
cial municipal election to be held in said City on the 5th day of
November, 1968; and
   That said proposed amendment was, on the 18th and 25th
days of September, 1968, duly published in the "Albany
Times", a newspaper of general circulation, published in the
City of Albany, and the official newspaper designated by said
City Council for that purpose, and in each edition thereof;
and
   That said City Council did by Eesolution designated as Eeso-
lution No. 68-55, which was duly adopted on the 12th day of
August, 1968, call for and give special notice of a special mu-
nicipal election in the City of Albany on the 5th day of Novem-
ber, 1968, which date was more than 40 days and less than 60
days after the completion of the publication of the said pro-
posed amendment to the Charter of the City of Albany as
aforesaid; and
   That said special municipal election was held in said City
on the 5th day of November, 1968, which date was more than
40 days and less than 60 days after said proposed amendment
to said Charter had been published in said "Albany Times"
as aforesaid; and
   That at said special municipal election held as aforesaid, on
the 5th day of November, 1968. a majority of the voters voted
3594              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             j - R e g _ Qh   37

in favor of the proposed amendment, as hereinafter set forth,
to the Charter of the City of Albany, and duly ratified the
same; and
   That the Board of Supervisors of the County of Alameda,
after duly canvassing the returns of said special municipal
election at the time and in the manner and form prescribed by
law, duly found, determined and declared that a majority of
the qualified voters voted thereon, and voted in favor of and
ratified said proposed amendment to the Charter of the City
of Albany, which said amendment is in words and figures as
follows:
              Proposed Charter Amendment No. 1
   That Section 38, paragraph (g) of the Charter of the City
of Albany be amended in the following particulars:
   That the following words of said paragraph (g) shall be
deleted:
   " T h e City Council shall include in and apportion from the
annual tax levy the sum of not less than Thirty-five Cents of
each One Hundred Dollars of assessed valuation to be paid into
the school fund of the City.''

   The foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of said pro-
posed amendment to the Charter of the City of Albany ratified
by the electors of said City as aforesaid, on file in the Office
of the City Clerk of said City of Albany.
  In witness whereof, Richard 0. Clark, Mayor as aforesaid,
and Bette C. Rhodes, Acting City Clerk as aforesaid, have here-
unto set their hands and caused the Seal of the City of Albany
to be hereunto duly affixed on this 9th day of December,
1968.
                                RICHARD 0.   CLARK
  ( SEAL )                      Mayor of the City of Albany
                                BETTE C. RHODES
                                Acting City Clerk of the
                                  City of Albany
Prepared and approved by:
  LAWRENCE D. SALER
  City Attorney of the City of Albany
   WHEREAS, The proposed charter amendment as ratified as
hereinabove set forth has been and now is duly presented and
submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for ap-
proval or rejection, as a whole without power of alteration in
accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitu-
tion of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of Albany, as
proposed to and adopted and ratified by the electors of the
                      1969
Res. Ch. 39]                 REGULAR SESSION                    3595
city, as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same is hereby
approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for and
as an amendment to and as a part of the Charter of the City
of Albany.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 38
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 23—Relative to
                 Elks National Youth Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks will
honor the junior citizens of our country with the proclamation
of " E l k s National Youth "Week" on May 1,1969; and
    WHEREAS, The California Elks Association" is made up of
164 lodges in California and three in Hawaii which are spon-
soring programs to help the young people of their communi-
ties ; and
   WHEREAS, I t is only fitting and proper that the Legislature
note and encourage the worthwhile efforts of all citizens and
service organizations on behalf of our youth; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members heartily commend
the members of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks
upon their sponsorship of ' ' Elks National Youth W e e k ' ' ; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Governor of California is hereby re-
quested to proclaim the week beginning with May 1, 1969,
'' Elks National Youth Week'' in California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 39
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 29—Relative to the observ-
         ance of California Congressional Cup Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members of
the Senate and Assembly that the fifth annual Congressional
Cup sailboat race will be held in the coastal waters off the
shores of Long Beach from March 13 through March 16, 1969;
and
  WHEREAS, The Congressional Cup has been recognized by
the Congress of the United States, has gained national and
international recognition, and has played a leading role in
putting California in the forefront in respect to water sports
generally and sailboat racing in particular; and
3596               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [Res   C h   4 0



   WHEREAS, In view of the present stature of the Congres-
sional Cup, it is fitting and proper that its holding be officially
noted and observed; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the Governor is respect-
fully requested to proclaim the week beginning with March 9,
1969, as "California Congressional Cup "Week"; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                EESOLUTION CHAPTBE 40
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 45—Relative to proclaim-
  ing the week of February 16-22, 1969, as Week of Family
  Prayer.
          [Piled with Secretary of State February 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The home and the family have long been recog-
nized as the most vital factors in assuring a stable society
dedicated to principles which will provide for the optimum
of freedom, peace, and personal opportunity for growth and
development; and
   WHEREAS, It is well recognized that within the home, the
mother is the most vital influence in building the character
and the attitudes of the children who, as the product of the
home and the family, become the members of our ever more
complex and dynamic society; and
   WHEREAS, Recent developments in our country have indi-
cated that a serious downward spiral of moral values is taking
place, the net effect of which is to bring to pass a frightening
increase in the incidence of crime and violence, a larger per-
centage of children being born illegitimately, and the very
serious increase in the number of marriages being ended in
the divorce courts; and
   WHEREAS, NOW, more than ever before in our nation's his-
tory, the preservation of our freedoms, the enhancement of
our country's heritage, and the fulfillment of its manifest
destiny as a citadel of freedom and the hope of a world torn
with fear and strife demand that the American family be
sustained in its mission to bring stability and harmony to
our society through homes filled with love and dedication to
freedom, truth, and the sustaining of the law; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of February 16-22, 1969, as a
"Week of Family Prayer," dedicated to strengthening the
family and particularly honoring the mother in the home to
                     1969
Kes. Ch. 42]                REGULAR SESSION                     3597

the extent that all families throughout the State of California
may rededicate themselves to building a society which will
truly represent the finest potentials for human fulfillment that
man can achieve; and be it further
  Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be transmitted to
Governor Reagan.

               RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 41
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 40—Relative to American
                   Music Month.
          [Filed with Secretary of State February 14, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The United States of America has a rich and
varied musical history; and
  WHEREAS, The talents and backgrounds of many different
persons and cultures have formed the basis for a tradition of
both creative composition and excellence in performance; and
  WHEREAS, It is well to recognize this tradition and to en-
courage American composers and performers in the producing
and presenting of our native music; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to issue a proclamation designating the month of Feb-
ruary as "American Music M o n t h " ; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 42
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 51—Relative to
              Easter Seal Month in California.
          [E'iled with Secretary of State February 20, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Easter Seal Society for Crippled Children
and Adults of California has during the past 42 years exerted
outstanding voluntary leadership to establish programs and
services to meet the special needs of physically handicapped
persons in this state; and
   WHEREAS, Striving to help disabled persons attain maximum
physical improvement and emotional maturity and to secure
education, training, and employment opportunities consistent
with their abilities, the Society has saved countless Califor-
nians from living lives of physical and economic dependency;
and
   WHEREAS, Through a statewide network of community-based
programs operated by 49 local affiliated Easter Seal organiza-
tions, more than 25,500 crippled children and adults last year
received needed aid; and
 3598               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ R e s > Qh. 4 3

    "WHEREAS, The voluntary support of California's private
 citizens is essential to the society's continuing ability to meet
 its noble goals; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
 bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Governor
 to proclaim the period between March 1 and April 6, 1969, as
 Easter Seal Month in California, and that the people of this
 state be urged to give generous support to the 1969 Easter
 Seal campaign conducted during this period; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Legislature honor the occasion of the visit
 by Manuel Gomez, Jr., of Hemet, California, "1969 Cali-
fornia Easter Seal Child,'' whose courage and achievements in
surmounting a severe crippling condition, with the aid of treat-
ment provided by public and private agencies including the
Easter Seal Society for Crippled Children and Adults of Riv-
erside and Imperial Counties, lend hope to the aspirations of
crippled children everywhere; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to Manuel Gomez, Jr., to the
Easter Seal Society for Crippled Children and Adults of Riv-
erside and Imperial Counties, and to the Easter Seal Society
for Crippled Children and Adults of California,* and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 43
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 44—Relative to proclaim-
     ing the week of March 16-22,1969, as DeMolay Week.
           [Piled with Secretary of State February 25, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The Order of DeMolay is the largest fraternal
 organization in the world for young men between the ages of
 14 and 21 years and has over 150,000 members in its chapters
 in the United States and 13 foreign countries; and
   WHEREAS, Founded in Kansas City, Missouri, on March 18,
 1919, by the late Frank Sherman Land, affectionately known
as " D a d " Land to all the members of the order, the Order of
DeMolay started with a group of nine high school boys and has
grown and prospered so that today over 3,000,000 young men
have passed through its portals and knelt at its altar; and
   WHEREAS, The presence in California of 280 chapters of the
Order of DeMolay with their 20,000 members and over 1,500
Master Masons serving as advisers has benefited the youth of
this great state by providing an opportunity to participate in
the fine work of the order; and
   WHEREAS, With the activities of the Order of DeMolay
ranging from community service projects to social affairs and
                      196
Bes. Ch. 44]                » REGULAR SESSION                   3599

 athletics, the ideals and aspirations of the order are best stated
by Charles G. Dawes when he said, " T h e teachings of the
 Order of DeMolay . . . love of parents, love of God, patriot-
 ism, purity, courtesy, comradeship and fidelity . . . are those
 which not only develop the best in youth, but insure the best in
m a n " ; and
    "WHEREAS, The year 1969 will mark the 50th anniversary of
the Order of DeMolay and will witness a multitude of celebra-
tions of this golden anniversary, all carried on under the theme
' ' 50 Years of Young Men on the Go " ; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
Order of DeMolay for the opportunity it has presented to
the youth of the State of California, the United States, and the
world to practice good citizenship and serve their communities,
and wish the order continued success in inculcating the youth
of the world with the virtues of good citizenship which tran-
scend all the ages; and be it further
    Resolved, That the members request the Governor to pro-
claim the week of March 16-22, 1969, as DeMolay Week in
recognition of the 50 years of outstanding and distinguished
service of the Order of DeMolay to the youth of California and
the nation; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to The Interna-
tional Supreme Council, Order of DeMolay, and each chapter
of the Order of DeMolay in California; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Reagan.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 44
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 60—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of San Bernardino, County
  of San Bernardino, State of California, voted for and rati-
  fied by the qualified electors of said city at an election held
  therein on the fourth day of February, 1969.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 25, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
purpose of adoption and ratification of amendments, herein-
after set forth, to the Charter of the City of San Bernardino,
a municipal corporation situated in the County of San Ber-
nardino, State of California, as set out in the certificates of
the mayor and city clerk of said city as follows, to wit:

State of California      "1
County of San Bernardino \ ss
City of San Bernardino    J
3600              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Res. Ch. 44

   We, the undersigned, Al C. Ballard, Mayor of the City of
San Bernardino, State of California, and Jack T. Felton, City
Clerk of said City, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   The City of San Bernardino, in the County of San Bernar-
dino, State of California, was at all times mentioned herein
and now is a City of the State of California existing and act-
ing under a Charter duly adopted and approved under and
by virtue of Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of the
State of California, containing a population of over fifty thou-
sand inhabitants.
   The legislative body of said City on its own motion sub-
mitted to the electors of said City, at a Primary Municipal
Election held within said city on the 4th day of February,
1969, certain proposed amendments to the City Charter of said
City._
   Said proposed amendments were published in The San Ber-
nardino Evening Telegram, being a newspaper of general cir-
culation printed and published in said City and having a
general circulation therein, and being an official newspaper of
said City, on the 20th day of December, 1968, in each edition
thereof on said day, and said publication was made at the time
and in the manner prescribed in Section 8, Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California,
   Said legislative body caused copies of said amendments to
be printed in convenient pamphlet form and in type of not
less than ten-point, and caused copies thereof to be mailed to
each of the qualified electors of said City and, until the day
fixed for said election, advertised in The San Bernardino Eve-
ning Telegram, being a newspaper having a general circulation
in said City, a notice that copies thereof could be had upon
application therefor, and in accordance with said notice copies
thereof could be had upon application therefor.
   Said election was duly and regularly held on the said 4th
day of February, 1969, which said date of the said election
 was not less than forty nor more than sixty days after the
completion of the advertising in said newspaper of said pro-
posed amendments, and at said election a majority of the
qualified voters voting thereon voted in favor thereof and did
ratify said proposed amendments to said City Charter.
   Said proposed amendments were duly and regularly sub-
mitted to, and duly ratified by, the said qualified voters of said
 City, and that all and singular the requirements of the Con-
stitution and laws of the State of California and the Charter
of said City have been complied with.
   Said amendments are as follows:
  Article I I I , Section 33 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
  Section 33. Within fifteen (15) days after its passage, the
City Clerk shall cause each ordinance to be published at least
once in a newspaper of general circulation published and
                       1969
  Res. Ch. 44]                REGULAR SESSION                 3601

   circulated in the City, or if there is none, or if the charge
  therefor exceeds the customary rate charged by the newspaper
  for publication of private legal notices, he shall cause it to be
  posted in at least three (3) public places in the City. Except
  as otherwise provided in this Charter, an ordinance shall not
  take effect or be valid unless it is published or posted in sub-
  stantially the manner and at the time required herein.
     Article VIII, Section 135 of the Charter of the City of San
  Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
     Section 135. Demands against the City, except those re-
  lating to bonds, or payable from funds not controlled by the
  Mayor and Common Council, or those otherwise exempted by
  law, for which appropriations have been made or authorization
  given in accordance with the Charter, before being paid, shall
  be presented for approval to the Director of Finance or other
  authorized officer, who shall present a register of approved de-
  mands to the Mayor and Common Council for approval prior
  to their payment. Demands for which no appropriations have
  been made or authorization given shall be presented by the
  City Administrator, or other authorized officer, with his recom-
  mendations to the Mayor and Common Council for approval or
  disapproval.
     Any person dissatisfied with the refusal to approve any de-
  mand, in whole or in part, may present the same to the Mayor
, and Common Council which after examining into the matter
  may approve or disapprove the demand in whole or in part.
  The Director of Finance or other authorized officer shall pre-
  pare warrants for all such approved demands, which shall be
  signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk.
     Every demand against the City Treasury which may have
  been incurred or authorized by the Board of Water Commis-
  sioners or the Board of Trustees of the Free Public Library
  shall be presented to the board incurring or authorizing the
  indebtedness, which shall approve or disapprove the same. A t
  least a majority vote of all the members of any board or com-
  mission shall be necessary to approve any demand. Each de-
  mand when so approved shall be paid by a warrant on the City
  Treasury payable out of the proper fund and signed by the
  president and secretary of the board which shall have ap-
  proved the same.
     Article IV, Section 60 of the Charter of the City of San
  Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
     Section 60. The duties of the City Clerk shall be to keep
  the corporate seal and all books, papers, records and other
  documents belonging to his office, attend all meetings of the
  Mayor and Common Council and keep a journal of the pro-
  ceedings. He shall have full power and authority to take all
  affidavits and administer all oaths necessary in the transaction
  of city business, but shall make no charge therefor. His official
  books and records shall be kept properly indexed and be open
  to public inspection during office hours. He shall number and
3602              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA             [K e s > Qh. 44

keep a record of all demands allowed and certified to him,
showing the date of approval, to whom the same is allowed,
the nature of the claim, and the fund out of which the same
is payable. He shall issue all licenses and countersign all war-
rants on the City Treasury, except warrants of the boards, and
shall do and perform all other acts required of him by this
Charter, or by ordinance, or which may be required of him by
the Mayor and Common Council.
   Article VIII, Section 136 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is repealed.
   Article V I I I , Section 137 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is repealed.
   Article VIII, Section 138 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is repealed.
   Article X I I I , Section 236 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is repealed.
   Article X I I I , Section 237 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is repealed.
   Article XII-A, Section 213 of the Charter of the City of
San Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
   Section 213. There is hereby created a Park and Recreation
Commission consisting of nine (9) members, whose terms of
office shall be four years.
   Article XII-A, Section 214 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
   Section 214. Bach Councilman shall appoint one commis-
sioner whose term shall coincide with that of the appointing
Councilman and the Mayor shall appoint two (2) commission-
ers, one of whom shall initially have a two (2) year term coin-
ciding with the term of the Mayor and the other shall have a
four (4) year term commencing on the second Monday of May,
1969. Thereafter, each Mayor and each Councilman upon as-
suming office shall appoint one member to the Commission for
a four (4) year term. Any vacancy occuring for any reason
shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
   Article XII-A, Section 215 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
   Section 215. Commissioners shall hold office for a term of
four (4) years and until their successors have been appointed
and qualified. Commissioners shall serve at the pleasure of the
appointing officer and any member of said Park and Recrea-
tion Commission may be removed at any time by the affirma-
tive vote of five (5) Councilmen, and upon any such removal
the vacancy shall be filled as aforesaid for the unexpired term.
    Article XII-A, Section 216 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
   Section 216. The members of the Park and Recreation
Commission shall serve without compensation. Immediately
after appointment and qualification, said Commission shall
organize by electing from among its membership a Chairman
and a Secretary. Regular meetings shall be held at least once
a month.
                    19 9
Kes. Ch. 44]          «    REGULAR SESSION                    ^603

   Article XII-A, Section 217 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
   Section 217. The Park and Recreation Commission shall:
   (a) Act in an advisory capacity to the Mayor and Common
Council in all matters pertaining to parks, recreation and
parkways.
   (b) Consider the annual budget of the Park and Recreation
Department during the process of its preparation and make
recommendations with respect thereto to the Mayor and Com-
mon Council; and
   (c) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordi-
nance not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter.
   Article XII-A, Section 218 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
   Section 218. The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the con-
firmation of the Common Council, a Director of the Park arid
Recreation Department of the City of San Bernardino who
shall have the general management and supervision of said
department and shall be in the competitive class of the calssi-
fied service of the Civil Service of the City of San Bernardino.
   Article X I I I , Section 249 of the Charter of the City of San
Bernardino is amended to read as follows:
   Section 249. In any open examination administered by the
Civil Service Board or its board of special examiners or Chief
Examiner, any person who has served in the regular armed
forces of the United States of America in time of war and who
has been honorably placed on inactive status or has been hon-
orably discharged from such service shall receive a bonus of
five grade points which shall be added to the final examination
grade of said person who has obtained a passing grade for such
examination. An additional five grade points shall be added
to the final examination grade of such person who qualified for
the initial five grade points for veteran preference and who
has a service-connected disability rated at not less than ten
percent (10%) by an authorized, agency of the federal gov-
 ernment. In any such open examination, ten grade points shall
 be added to the final examination grade of any successful ap-
 plicant who is a wife of any such United States veteran hon-
 orably discharged from the service who, while in service in
 time of war, was disabled or crippled, thereby being perma-
 nently prevented from engaging in a remunerative occupation;
 or who is the widow of any such veteran who died or was
 killed in such service and who has not remarried. The Civil
 Service Board shall define the phrase " i n time of w a r " in its
 rules and regulations and such definition shall include each
 war and any campaign involving the United States for which
 the federal government allows veteran preference. The bonus
 granted under this section shall not apply to promotions or
 to promotional examinations.
3604                 STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                 j ^ g g Q^   45

   We have compared the said ratified amendments with the
original proposed amendments submitted to the qualified elec-
tors of the said City, and find that the foregoing is a full, true,
correct and exact copy of said amendments.
   We further certify that the facts set forth in the preamble
preceding said amendments to said Charter, and each of them,
are true.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the corporate seal of the City of San Bernardino to be
attached on this 17th day of February, 1969.

                          A L C. BALLARD
  (SEAL)                  Mayor of the City of San Bernardino,
                           California
                          JACK T. FELTON
                          City Clerk of the City of San
                            Bernardino, California
and
   WHEREAS, Said amendments to the Charter of the City of
San Bernardino so ratified as hereinbefore set forth has been
duly presented and submitted to the Legislature of the State
of California, for approval or rejection, without power of
alteration or amendment, all in accordance with Section 8,
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendments to the Charter of the City of San Ber-
nardino as proposed to and adopted and ratified by the electors
of said city and hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same
are hereby approved as a whole without amendment or alter-
ation for and as amendments and as part of the said Charter
of the City of San Bernardino.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 45
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 61—Relating to
                    "Zero Defects Week."
            [Filed with Secretary of State February 26, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The President of the United States and the Sec-
retary of Defense have repeatedly expressed their determina-
tion to reduce the high costs of national defense by the
elimination of waste; and
   WHEREAS, The provision by industry to the government of
error-free products exemplifies a manner in which the goal
of defense cost reduction can be achieved; and
   WHEREAS, The institution of "zero defects programs" in
industry, by which employees strive to avoid error in the
                      1969
Res. Ch. 46]                 REGULAR SESSION                    3605

manufacturing process, has greatly aided in the achievement
of error-free products; and
  WHEREAS, An outstanding illustration of the effectiveness
of "zero defects programs" is Holex, Incorporated, which
will be honored on March 6th as the recipient of the General
Electric Missile and Space Division, Re-entry Systems Depart-
ment's "Outstanding Supplier of the Year—1968" award;
and
   WHEREAS, This award is based on the fact that Holex has
provided error-free components for the Re-entry Systems De-
partment throughout 1968; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members ask the Governor
to proclaim the week of March 6th through 13th as "Zero
Defects W e e k " ; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy of this resolution to Holex, Incorporated.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 46
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 35—Relative to
                   Schoolbus Safety Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 26, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Schoolbus Safety Week will be observed nation-
wide during the week of April 20 through April 26, 1969; and
   WHEREAS, The outstanding safety record of the schoolbus
drivers in transporting over 1.5 million students daily in
California merits public commendation and recognition; and
   WHEREAS, Safe student transportation on schoolbuses has
acquired great importance due to the increasingly heavy traf-
fic on our streets and highways throughout the state; and
   WHEREAS, Schoolbus Safety Week is an ideal time for all
citizens to rededicate themselves to promote safety on our
streets and highways by exercising caution and courtesy in
driving; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the
Governor to proclaim the week of April 20 through April 26,
1969, as "Schoolbus Safety W e e k " in California; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and two suitably prepared
copies of this resolution to Mr. Richard E. Fischer, State
 Chairman of Schoolbus Safety Week.
3606                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 47

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 47
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 36—Relative to proclaiming
  the week of March 23 through 29 as Chamber of Commerce
  Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 26, 1969.]

     WHEREAS, It is becoming increasingly evident that govern-
 ment and business must cooperate in solving the pressing
 problems involving community development, housing, hard-
 core unemployed, education, transportation, environmental
 pollution, and economic growth; and
     WHEREAS, Business and professional men and women have
 the knowledge and ability to provide solutions to these press-
 ing problems; and
    WHEREAS, Business and professional men and women
 throughout California have joined in local, state and national
chambers of commerce to find and implement solutions to the
 problems of the changing society in which we live; and
    WHEREAS, Chambers of commerce have been and are sup-
plying valuable service by providing a vehicle to aid these
business and professional men and women to work together in
voluntary group action programs; and
    WHEREAS, Chamber of commerce members in the State of
 California will observe the week of March 23 through 29,
1969, as "Chamber of Commerce W e e k " ; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members urge Governor
Reagan to proclaim the week of March 23 through 29, 1969, as
' ' Chamber of Commerce Week''; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suit-
ably prepared copies of this resolution to Governor Reagan,
the California State Chamber of Commerce, and the Califor-
nia Association of Chamber of Commerce Executives.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 48
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 32—Relative to the Gov-
  ernor issuing a proclamation that the week of March 16 to
  22, 1969 be declared Value Engineering Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 27, 1969.]

     WHEREAS, Value engineering has made important contribu-
tions to the citizens of California; and
     WHEREAS, The resources at our disposal for solving the in-
creasingly complex social and technical problems of our so-
ciety must be utilized wisely and for maximum benefit; and
    WHEREAS, Efforts to solve these problems should seek to pro-
vide a dollar's worth of value for every dollar spent in indus-
t r y and government; and
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 49]                 REGULAR SESSION                    3607

   "WHEREAS, A field of endeavor known as value engineering
has come about as a disciplined systematic approach for iden-
tifying and eliminating unnecessary cost; and
   "WHEKEAS, The highly creative value engineering techniques
developed so far have proven highly successful in pinpointing
nonessential functions and eliminating unnecessary costs; and
   WHEREAS, Value engineering is continuing to develop as a
highly beneficial and necessary means of supplying goods and
services to California citizens and the nation as a whole at the
lowest possible costs; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gover-
nor to proclaim that the week of March 16 to 22, 1969 be
designated Value Engineering Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 49
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 37—Relating
            to Administrative Management Week.
           [Filed with Secretary of State February 27, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, 1969 marks the 50th anniversary of the Ad-
ministrative Management Society; and
   WHEREAS, For the past half century, the society has con-
cerned itself with the personal development of its member
managers as well as the continual improvement in the tech-
niques and philosophies of the body of knowledge that we
know as administrative management; and
   WHEREAS, Over these years, more than one-quarter of a
million people have been associated with and benefited from
the activities and services of the society; and
  WHEREAS,      Currently, membership is worldwide and
nearly 16,000 members participate in the activities of over
70 chapters located in the United States and Canada alone;
and
  WHEREAS, The society will hold an international con-
ference in Toronto, Ontario, during the week of May 11 to
May 17, 1969; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members urge the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of May 11 to May 17, 1969, " A d -
ministrative Management W e e k " in honor of the 50th anni-
versary of the Administrative Management Society and in
recognition of the significant role of the society in the develop-
ment of modern management practices; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.
3608               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [R e S - Qh. 50

                EESOLUTION CHAPTEE 50

Assembly   Joint Resolution No. 8—Relative            to the Pure      Air
                          Act of 1968.
           [Filed -with Secretary of State February 28, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Seventy percent of the poisonous smog which each
year costs California approximately half a billion dollars is
caused by motor vehicles; and
   WHEREAS, The California State Legislature last year devel-
oped vehicle emission standards which all new vehicles must
meet beginning in 1970 and which become increasingly more
stringent through 1974; and
   WHEREAS, California may not implement these standards
unless the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare finds,
under the Federal Air Quality Act of 1967, that the standards
are technically feasible and capable of implementation with
reasonable economic cost; and
   WHEREAS, The standards in the Pure Air Act of 1968 have
been found to be technically feasible and capable of implemen-
tation with reasonable economic cost by a technical advisory
panel of nine California engineers, scientists, and air pollution
experts; and
   WHEREAS, The automobile manufacturers have repeatedly
asked that emission standards be established well in advance
so that they may have "lead t i m e " to develop the hardware
to implement the standards; and
   WHEREAS, All the standards in the Pure Air Act of 1968
are now California state law: the standards for cars as well
as larger vehicles, the standards for exhaust emissions as well
as evaporative loss, and the standards for 1971, 1972, 1973,
and 1974 as well as 1970; and
   WHEREAS, This is the law passed by both houses of the Legis-
lature, and this is the law signed by the Governor; and
 „ WHEREAS, On November 20, 1968, the California Air He-
sources Board unanimously adopted test procedures for all
the standards in the Pure Air Act: for both exhaust and evap-
orative loss; for hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and oxides of
nitrogen; and for 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973, and 1974; and
   WHEREAS, Without the strong responsible standards in the
Pure Air Act of 1968 there is persuasive medical evidence that
California faces a public health crisis of major dimension;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
requests the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to
grant California a waiver on all of the standards and pro-
cedures in the Pure Air Act of 1968 as promptly as possible;
and be it further
                        1969
Ees. Ch. 52]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3 6 09

  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Secretary of Health, Education,
and "Welfare and to each Senator and Representative from
California in the Congress of the United States.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 51
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 42—Relative
             to International Toastmistress Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 5, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, International Toastmistress Clubs is an educa-
tional organization for women interested in increasing their
ability and confidence; and
   WHEREAS, The organization's programs place major empha-
sis upon communication, leadership training, and skill in or-
ganizational techniques; and
   WHEREAS, These qualities are vitally important today, as
throughout history, and should be encouraged among adult
women without regard to race, religion, citizenship, or coun-
try of residence; and
   WHEREAS, Because of its high educational standards which
may benefit all women this exemplary organization is worthy
of special tribute; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Members commend the
International Toastmistress Clubs and request the Governor to
proclaim the week of May 18, 1969, through May 24, 1969, as
International Toastmistress Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 52
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 46—Relative to proclaiming
            February as American Music Month.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 5, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The California Federation of Music Clubs, an af-
filiate of the National Federation of Music Clubs, was founded
for the purpose of encouraging American composers to produce
their works and American performers to present American
music from our earliest folk pieces to modern contemporary
composition; and
    WHEREAS, In order to help to bring to public notice the rich
variety and the beauty of American music developed from
the earliest years of our nation, it is the desire of the federation
3610              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [ R e a . Qh. 5 3

to set aside the month of February as American Music Month
in this state; and
  "WHEREAS, The members wish to support this worthy aim;
now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the month of February as American Music
Month; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to Governor Eeagan.


               EESOLUTION CHAPTEE 53
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 44—Relative to the Senate
                      and Assembly.
            [Filed with Secretary of State March 5, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, as follows:
   First, That each house of the Legislature shall be in recess
from adjournment of its session on Friday, March 28th, until
the time set for reconvening on Monday, April 7th.
   Second, That no bill shall be introduced after April 8th at
this session except as follows:
   (a) A written notice of intention to introduce a bill, a copy
of the bill, and a digest shall be filed with the Chief Clerk of
the Assembly or the Secretary of the Senate, as the case may
be, and shall be transmitted to the Eules Committee of the
appropriate house. The notice and digest shall be printed in
the journal of that house.
   (b) The Rules Committee of the Assembly or Senate, as the
case may be, shall determine whether there exists an urgent
need for the introduction of the proposed bill.
   (c) If the Eules Committee recommends that introduction
of the proposed bill be permitted, the member may offer a
resolution, without further reference thereof to committee,
granting permission to introduce the bill. The adoption of the
resolution granting such permission shall require an affirma-
tive recorded vote of two-thirds of the elected members of the
house in which the request is made.
   As used in the provision " b i l l " includes constitutional
amendments but does not include joint or concurrent resolu-
tions.
   Third, That all requests for the preparation of a bill to be
introduced on or before April 8th shall be made to the Legis-
lative Counsel on or before March 28th. The Legislative Coun-
sel shall not deliver the draft of any bill requested after
March 28th until April 9th or after.
                        1969
Res. Ch. 551                   REGULAR SESSION                  3611

                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 54
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 50—Relative to proclaiming
            Youth Temperance Education Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 5, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, It has of late become increasingly apparent that
the youth of California experiment with narcotics and hallu-
cinatory and other dangerous drugs without knowing or under-
standing the dangers inherent in such experimentation; and
   WHEREAS, Recent surveys indicate that over 10 percent of
California's high school seniors have used, or are using, mari-
juana ; and
   WHEREAS, The youth of California should be taught the
effects of drugs, alcohol and tobacco on the human system; and
   WHEREAS, I t is imperative that an educational program be
established so that youth may know the truth about tobacco,
alcohol, narcotics, and hallucinatory and other dangerous
drugs; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to issue
a proclamation designating the week beginning April 20, 1969,
as "Youth Temperance Education Week," and inviting the
people of California to cooperate during that week with pro-
grams of temperance education; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 55
               Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 62—
                     Relative to Circle K Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 5, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Circle K International, a collegiate service or-
ganization sponsored by Kiwanis International, is observing
the week of March 2-8, 1969, as Circle K Week; and
   WHEREAS, The members of Circle K are part of an interna-
tional organization dedicated to serve with purpose their God,
their country, their state and their fellow man, seeking to give
primacy to the human and spiritual rather than to the ma-
terial values of life; and
   WHEREAS, They promote the adoption of higher social, busi-
ness, professional and educational standards and a more con-
cerned and serviceable citizenship; and
   WHEREAS, Through their purposeful service they have
helped to build better communications where righteousness,
justice, patriotism and good will are more than just words—
where they become goals for living; now, therefore, be it
3612               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [ R e s Qh. 56

  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members heartily com-
mend the members of Kiwanis International for their sponsor-
ship of Circle K Week; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Governor of California is hereby re-
quested to proclaim the week beginning with March 2, 1969, as
Circle K "Week in California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 56
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 21—Relative to the crea-
  tion of the Joint Legislative Committee on Higher Educa-
  tion.
             [Filed with Secretary of State March 6, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The 1965 Legislature recognized the need for a
thorough and long-range study of California's system of higher
education, and the Joint Committee on Higher Education was
 thereby created by the Legislature through the adoption of
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 156 (Resolutions Chapter
 216, Statutes of 1965) ; and
   WHEREAS, There is a continuing need for the Legislature to
review the California Master Plan for Higher Education; and
   WHEREAS, There is a need for further study of alternate
proposals for improving the quality and effectiveness of higher
educational institutions in California; and
   WHEREAS, There is a need for a thorough analysis and study
by the Legislature of major issues in the field of higher edu-
cation before adopting a public policy in this sensitive field;
and
   WHEREAS, There is a need to involve the public and the
higher education community in a search for ways and means
to continue California's recognized leadership in this impor-
tant field; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, As follows:
   1. The Joint Committee on Higher Education is hereby cre-
ated and authorized and directed to ascertain, study and
analyze all facts relating to existing and emerging problems of
higher education in the State of California, including, but not
limited to, the operation, effect, administration, enforcement
and needed revision of any and all laws in any way bearing
upon or relating to the subject of this resolution, and to report
thereon to the Legislature, including in the report its recom-
mendations for appropriate legislation.
   2. The committee shall consist of five Members of the Sen-
ate, appointed by the Committee on Rules thereof, and five
                    1969
Res. Ch. 56]               REGULAR SESSION                   3513

Members of the Assembly, appointed by the Speaker thereof.
Vacancies occurring in the membership of the committee shall
be filled by the appointing power.
   3. The committee is authorized to act during this session of
the Legislature, including any recess, and after final adjourn-
ment until the commencement of the 1970 Regular Session,
with authority to file its final report not later than the fifth
legislative day of that session.
   4. The committee and each subcommittee thereof is author-
ized to leave the State of California in the performance of its
duties.
   5. The committee and its members shall have and exercise
all of the rights, duties and powers conferred upon investi-
gating committees and their members by the provisions of the
Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly as they are adopted
and amended from time to time at this session, which provi-
sions are incorporated herein and made applicable to this
committee and its members.
   6. The committee has the following additional powers and
duties:
   (a) To select a chairman and vice chairman from its mem-
bership.
   (b) To contract with such other agencies, public or private,
as it deems necessary for the rendition and affording of such
services, facilities, studies and reports to the committee as will
best assist it to carry out the purposes for which it is created.
   (c) To cooperate with and secure the cooperation of county,
city, city and county, and other local law enforcement agencies
in investigating any matter within the scope of this resolution
and to direct the sheriff of any county to serve subpoenas,
orders and other process issued by the committee.
   (d) To report its findings and recommendations to the Leg-
islature and to the people from time to time and at any time,
not later than herein provided.
   (e) To do any and all other things necessary or convenient
to enable it fully and adequately to exercise its powers, per-
form its duties, and accomplish the objects and purposes of
this resolution.
   7. The sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or
so much thereof as may be necessary is hereby made available
from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for
the expenses of the committee and its members and for any
charges, expenses or claims it may incur under this resolution,
to be paid from the said fund and disbursed, after certification
by the chairman of the committee, upon warrants drawn by
the State Controller upon the State Treasurer.
3614                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 57

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 57
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 43—Relative to
               commending La, Fiesta de las Rosas.
             [Filed with Secretary of State March 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, La Fiesta de las Rosas in San Jose, Santa Clara
 County, California, is reviving the fiesta parade, pageant
 and festival in May and June, 1969; and
   WHEREAS, La Fiesta de las Rosas is joining other citizens in
 celebrating California's 200th birthday through issuance of a
 commemorative bicentennial medallion, 1769-1969; and
   WHEREAS, The fiesta will thus observe and celebrate said
 200th anniversary of the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, Through such celebration and pageantry Fiesta
 de las Rosas will dramatize the rich cultural heritage of this
state and its people; and
   WHEREAS, The members of the fiesta have labored long and
hard to bring forth this major floral parade and celebration;
 and
   WHEREAS, All the people of all ages and every ethnic group
 and every religion are joining in one common enterprise in-
 cluding fandangos, art, rose show, a Great West rodeo, con-
certs and other activities of great value and benefit; now,
 therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
 Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their
 thanks to La Fiesta de las Rosas for its contribution to the
 Santa Clara Valley and to all California, extend to the fiesta
best wishes, and commend Mary Jeanne Sauerwein, Frank
Fiscalini, Russell Pettit, Clyde Arbuckle, Frances Hamann,
Luis G. Juarez, Bill K. Matsumoto, Henry M. Plymire, Daniel
Saldana, Herbert J. Sommers, Dr. Duane S. Bay, Joseph A.
 Colla, Joseph A. Connolly, Hugh C. Ellis, Mrs. Ronald R.
James, Mrs. Keith Gow, Kurt Gross, James C. Malone, Thomas
B. Markley, Dean McKellep, Dan McTeague, Edmund Mer-
cado, Ralph Poblano, Blanca R. Ramos, George Sepulveda,
Stanley Smock, Richard C. Van Valer, James F . Steacy, Rob-
ert Stroughter, Mario Tarabini, Dr. Chester Mason, Allen
Sauerwein, Bob Baskett and Betsy Lyse for the valuable serv-
ice and assistance they have rendered to the fiesta; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to La Fiesta de las
Rosas and all persons named herein.
                         19(i9
Res. Ch. 59]                     REGULAR SESSION                 36I5

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 58
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 53—Relative
               to commending Manuel Furtado.
               [Piled with Secretary of State March 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature have learned that
Manuel Furtado, of Tracy, California, has been a dairyman
for 50 years; and
   WHEREAS, He has devoted a substantial part of his time and
efforts to improving the quality standards for fluid milk; and
   WHEREAS, He has always assisted his fellow dairymen by
keeping them informed of the problems relating to the produc-
tion and marketing of fluid milk; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Furtado has always believed in dairymen
joining together to solve their problems, and he has had a
leading part in the organization of the "Associated Dairy-
m e n " and the "California Milk Producers' Federation"; and
   WHEREAS, Manuel Furtado still serves these two organiza-
tions as an active director; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend and
congratulate Manuel Furtado on his 50 years of outstanding
service and devotion to his fellow dairymen and the dairy in-
dustry of the State of California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Manuel Furtado.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 59
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 37—Relative to commend-
        ing Colonel Frank Borman, NASA   Astronaut.
              [Piled with Secretary of State March 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members of
the Legislature that Colonel Frank Borman, together with
Captain James Lovell and Lieutenant Colonel Bill Anders in
the Apollo 8 manned space flight traveled faster and farther
than any man has ever gone; and
   WHEREAS, The crew of the Apollo 8 was the first to escape
the earth's atmosphere, the first to enter the moon's atmos-
phere, orbit the moon at a height of only 70 miles, and r e t u r n
to the earth; and
   WHEREAS, Frank Borman, the captain of Apollo 8, was born
in Gary, Indiana, raised in Tucson, Arizona, and graduated
from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point with a bachelor
of science degree; and
   WHEREAS, After serving with honor as an Air Force pilot
in the United States and the Philippines, he was appointed
   114—1954
3616              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [ft e s _ Qh. 6 0

instructor in thermodynamics and fluid mechanics at West
Point; and
   WHEREAS, Borman received his master's degree in aeronauti-
cal engineering from the California Institute of Technology
in 1957, graduated from the USAF aerospace research pilots
school in 1960 and remained there as an instructor until 1962;
and
   WHEREAS, He became a NASA astronaut in 1962, was com-
mand pilot for the historic Gemini V I I mission, the longest
manned flight up to that time (over 330 hours), and partici-
pated in the world's first manned space rendezvous of Gemini
V I I and Gemini VI in 1965; and
   WHEREAS, He has received numerous awards from the Pres-
ident of the United States and NASA and was greatly hon-
ored in 1966 as corecipient of the 1966 Harmon International
Aviation Trophy for his outstanding space flight achievements;
now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members heartily con-
gratulate Colonel Frank Borman, NASA astronaut, for his
monumental achievements in outer space travel and commend
him for the great honor he has brought to his nation by the
historic Apollo 8 moon shot; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Colonel Frank Bor-
man.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 60
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 38—Relative to commending
           Lieutenant Colonel William A. Anders.
           [Filed with Secretary of State March 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Lieutenant Colonel William A. Anders rendered
exceptional service to his country as one of the astronauts of
Apollo 8, the first crew to accomplish a lunar mission; and
   WHEREAS, William Anders was one of the 14 astronauts
selected by the National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion's space flight team in 1963 and was pilot of the backup
crew for the Gemini X I mission prior to the Apollo 8 mis-
sion ; and
   WHEREAS, Before being selected by NASA for astronaut
training, William Anders received a bachelor of science degree
from the United States Naval Academy in 1955, was commis-
sioned in the Air Force and received flight training; received
his master of science degree in nuclear engineering from the
Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base, Ohio and in 1962 served as a nuclear engineer and
instructor pilot at the Air Force Weapons Laboratory, Kirt-
land Air Force Base, New Mexico; and
                        1969
Res. Ch. 61]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3 6 1 7


   WHEREAS, The achievements of the Apollo 8 mission and its
commander, Frank Borman, command module pilot, James A.
Lovell and lunar module pilot, William A. Anders have cap-
tured the imagination and respect of the entire world; and
   WHEREAS, The Apollo 8 crew were the first to be launched
from the Saturn V, the world's largest launch vehicle, the first
to escape the earth's gravitational force and because of it the
first to travel at speeds of almost 25,000 miles per hour, the
first to reach lunar orbit approximately 70 miles above the
moon's surface, and to have traveled away from the earth
further than any other manned space flight and the first to
reenter the earth's atmosphere at a speed of over 24,000 miles
per hour; and
   WHEKEAS, Great honor is due William Anders and other
heroes of the space program who voluntarily accept the chal-
lenges and explore the unattained heights and whose strength,
discipline, spirit and courageous efforts are making significant
contributions to the effort required for ultimate success of the
NASA space program; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members take pride in
commending Lieutenant Colonel William A. Anders for his
outstanding record of achievement, and express their appre-
ciation for his significant contributions to the development of
our nation's manned space flight program; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Lieutenant Colonel
 William A. Anders.

                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 61
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 39—Relative to
              Captain James A. Lovell, Jr., V.S.N.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Captain James A. Lovell, Jr., of the United States
Navy, as a member of the crew of Apollo 8, has participated
in what is unquestionably one of the greatest scientific achieve-
ments since the discovery of flight; and
   WHEREAS, This intrepid astronaut has made an indelible
mark upon the ledger of man's greatest achievements as one
of the first three men ever to escape from the gravitational
field of his native Earth and orbit the moon; and
   WHEREAS, Captain Lovell and the other crewmen of the
Apollo 8, in the course of their 10 orbits of the moon, also
attained a speed of almost 25,000 miles per hour and thus have
traveled faster than any of their fellow men; and
   WHEREAS, This incredible feat was made possible through
the use of the world's largest launch vehicle, the Saturn V,
3618                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 62

which was built at Downey by the North American Rockwell
Corporation in team with a myriad of other cooperating com-
panies, trade unions, and skilled consultants employing vir-
tually every field of man's scientific knowledge; and
   WHEREAS, Even as with the early navigators of bygone times,
setting forth in their frail craft to seek new lands, so, too,
has Captain Lovell achieved eternal recognition in the an-
nals of man for his heroic achievements in the depths of space;
and
   WHEREAS, Captain Lovell, to the everlasting credit of his
country and. fellow men, has shown the way in what is sure
to be man's finest hour, the landing on the moon; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members most warmly
commend Captain James A. Lovell, Jr., U.S.N., for his bril-
liant achievement in orbiting the moon for the first time in
the history of man; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Captain James A.
Lovell, Jr., U.S.N.

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 62
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 40—Relative to
        commending North American Rockwell Corporation.
             [Filed with Secretary of State March 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The stellar success of the pioneering Apollo 8
space flight was made possible in large measure by North
American Rockwell Corporation's Space Division of Downey,
California, the Apollo 8 program's principal contractor, and
its president, W. B. Bergen; and
   WHEREAS, Among the unprecedented scientific breakthroughs
attained by Apollo 8 astronauts Borman, Lovell and Anders
were man's escape from the earth's gravitational field, his
attainment of lunar orbit, his unassisted, closeup view of the
moon, and his reaching speeds of nearly 25,000 miles per hour
in this historic venture; and
   WHEREAS, These horizon-expanding accomplishments and the
precision and perfection of their execution were made possible
by the technical excellence built into the Apollo command and
service module, which represented the spacecraft of Apollo 8,
by North American Rockwell's Space Division; and
   WHEREAS, In addition to its own accomplishments with the
Apollo 8 spacecraft, North American Rockwell supervised and
coordinated the efforts of some 9,000 subcontractor firms, in-
suring perfect coordination and technical excellence in the
countless systems and components produced thereby; and
                     1969
Kes. Ch. 63]                REGULAR SESSION                  36i9

   WHEEEAS, In addition to its services as prime contractor,
other divisions of North American Rockwell contributed sig-
nificantly, most notable among which are the Seal Beach
facilities of the Space Division, which built the second stage
of the Saturn V rocket, the world's largest launch vehicle,
and the Rocketdyne Division, which built the reaction controls
for the command module and also the main engines for all
three stages of the Saturn V launch vehicle; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by ihe Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members commend the
North American Rockwell Corporation and its president,
W. B. Bergen, for trailblazing excellence in its many accom-
plishments in the Apollo 8 space flight; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suit-
ably prepared copies of this resolution to the North American
Rockwell Corporation and its president, W. B. Bergen.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 63
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 10—Relative to the issuing of
  a commemorative stamp and a presidential      proclamation
  upon the centennial of Japanese immigration to the United
  States of America.
           [Filed with Secretary of State March 12, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The first group of Japanese immigrants arrived
from Aizu "Wakamatsu, Japan, aboard the sidewheeler
 '' China'' of The Pacific Mail Steamship Company and entered
the United States on May 27, 1869, at San Francisco; and
    "WHEEEAS, This valiant and brave band of colonists pro-
ceeded to Sacramento by riverboat, traveled overland by
wagon to Placerville and Gold Hill, and established the Waka-
matsu Tea and Silk Farm Colony of Gold Hill by clearing the
land, building their homes, and cultivating plants and seeds,
including 50,000 three-year-old mulberry trees for silk farm-
ing, which they had brought with them from their native
land; and
    WHEREAS, Although this pioneer project was doomed in less
than two years by a combination of dry climate and a scarcity
of irrigation water, it nevertheless heralded a period during
which the Japanese people immigrated to California to partici-
pate in the beginnings of the Golden State's agricultural in-
dustry ; and
    WHEREAS, On December 16, 1966, the Historical Landmarks
Advisory Committee of the Division of Beaches and Parks
unanimously approved the Wakamatsu Tea and Silk F a r m
  Colony of Gold Hill as a historical landmark and stated that
  "Although the Wakamatsu Tea and Silk Farm Colony was
  short lived and suffered its tragic ending, it signaled the
3620               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Ch. 64

coming of Japanese pioneers to America and the beginning of
their notable contribution to the agricultural industry of Cali-
fornia. During the past three-quarters of the century, they
have left their marks in the teeming valleys throughout the
length and breadth of this great state. Many descendants are
carrying on the work of their pioneer forebears with the
same devotion, determination and skill which helped to make
California the most productive farming state in the United
States and the greatest agricultural region in the world . . . " ;
and
   WHEREAS, On June 7, 1969, a monument bearing the state
historical plaque will be dedicated in appropriate ceremonies
at Gold Hill, and the ceremonies will be attended by persons
from many parts of our nation who are of Japanese descent as
well as visitors from J a p a n ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
recommend that the Post Office Department of the United
States of America print a commemorative stamp honoring the
centennial of Japanese immigration to the United States of
America; and be it further
   Resolved, That Richard M. Nixon, President of the United
States of America, be requested to proclaim the year 1969, the
 centennial year for the people of Japanese descent in the
United States; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President of the United States
 and the Postmaster General of the United States.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 64
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 11—Relative
               to commending Dr. R. Coke Wood.
            [Filed with Secretary of State March 12, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members of
the Legislature that Dr. R. Coke Wood has made significant
contributions to the preservation and restoration of historical
data and objects of the State of California and, particularly,
the Mother Lode; and
   WHEREAS, Although he was born in Oklahoma, he re-
ceived his elementary and secondary education in the schools
in Bishop, did undergraduate work at the University of
Nevada and the University of Hawaii, received a B.S. degree
and a M.A. degree from the College of the Pacific, and gradu-
ated Phi Beta Kappa with his Ph.D. degree from the Univer-
sity of Southern California; and
   WHEREAS, He taught for the Stockton Unified School Dis-
trict in Murphys for eight years, and has more recently been
teaching at Delta College and the University of Pacific; and
                    1969
Res. Ch. 641               REGULAR SESSION                3621

    WHEREAS, In 1952, he organized the Calaveras County
Historical Society and has been vice president continuously
since that date, and he has edited the society's quarterly pub-
 lication for the past 12 years; and
    WHEBEAS, From his sojourn in Murphys as a teacher, he
became keenly interested in the history of the Mother Lode,
and he and his wife, Ethelyn, purchased and restored the
oldest building in Murphys—the P. L. Traver Building—and
have transformed it into one of the finest privately owned
museums in the Mother Lode; and
    WHEREAS, He has written many books and articles with
respect to the Mother Lode, including, among others, "Mur-
phys, Queen of the Sierra," "Calaveras, Land of Skulls,"
and " T h e Big Tree—Carson Valley Turnpike, Ebbetts
Pass and Highway F o u r " ; and
    WHEREAS, He pioneered in the field of television instruc-
tion, conducting history classes from the University of the
Pacific, and for many years, he and his wife have conducted
the popular California Mission Tours for the university; and
   WHEREAS, In 1965, Governor Brown appointed him as
chairman of the California Historical Landmarks Advisory
Commission and Governor Reagan recently reappointed him
to the commission; and
   WHEREAS, He is editor and executive secretary for the
California Historian, director for the Pacific Historian, Grand
Clamp Historian of the E Clampus Vitus Clamper Maga-
zine, a charter member of the Jedediah Strong Smith Society
 (which he helped found) at the University of the Pacific, and
a member of E Clampus Vitus (Matuca Chapter) ; and
    WHEREAS, In 1966, he was the recipient of an honor award
from the California State Historical Society, and in 1967 he
received the Outstanding Citizen of the Year Award from the
Murphys Community Club; and
    WHEREAS, Dr. R. Coke Wood is currently director and
curator of the Pacific Center for Western Historical Studies
at the University of the Pacific, is chairman of the Social
Sciences Department at Delta College, is director and curator
for the Stuart Library of Western Americana at the
University of the Pacific, and is executive secretary for the
California Conference of Historical Societies; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Members of the Legisla-
ture commend Dr. R. Coke Wood for his tireless dedicated
effort in the preservation and restoration of historical data
and objects of the State of California and, particularly, the
Mother Lode; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Members of the Legislature respectfully
request the Governor to designate Dr. R. Coke Wood as " M r .
California"; and be it further
3622               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 65

  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly is hereby
directed to transmit a copy of this resolution to the Governor
of the State of California, and to transmit a suitably prepared
copy of this resolution to Dr. R. Coke Wood.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 65
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 56—Relative to commending
          Frank Burrill and R. L. "Cuba" Morris.
            TFiled with Secretary of State March 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Driver education and driver training are now
recognized as a most important and essential segment of the
total traffic safety program in the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, The people of the state, educators, legislators,
highway safety and law enforcement agencies, and many others
endorse, support and encourage the high school level teaching
of driver education and training as an integral part of the
education of our youth; and
   WHEREAS, The development of this educational pursuit of
increased traffic safety for the young people of our society has
been accomplished through extensive research and development
through the years, but began as the dream and inspiration of
two men, Frank Burrill and R. L. " Cuba'' Morris; and
   WHEREAS, Because of their foresight, unselfish diligence and
dedication Prank Burrill and R. L. " C u b a " Morris gave much
in the way of time, thought, energy, money, and personal
sacrifice to draft and urge the passage of the first legislation
to create programs for driver training as part of high school
curriculum; and
   WHEREAS, Frank Burrill and R. L. " Cuba'' Morris, together
with then Assemblyman Earl W. Stanley of Orange County,
drafted the bill which came to be known as the "Stanley Bill
for Driver Education," and with the help of then Speaker of
the House Sam Collins, organized grass roots support, sold the
idea to schools, parent groups, city and county government
bodies, civic clubs, insurance companies, automobile clubs, auto
manufacturers, and legislators, and, as a result of such
dedicated effort, the bill passed both houses June 20, 1947; and
   WHEREAS, After the passage of the ' ' Stanley Bill for Driver
Education," Frank Burrill and Cuba Morris continued to
develop public support for this vital program by giving talks,
visiting school board members, administrators and teachers;
and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Burrill wrote to all the automobile manufac-
turers and asked them to offer cars for high school use in the
programs, and by persistence and persuasive argument over-
came the companies' initial reluctance and soon the program
of loaning cars to schools became a reality through the coopera-
tive efforts of auto clubs and auto dealers' associations; and
                         1969 R
Res. Ch. 66]                      EGTJLAK SESSION                 3623

   WHEREAS, Mr. Morris and Mr. Burrill established several
course outlines for some of the first driver education classes
which have been used throughout the state; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Burrill and Mr. Morris developed night school
driver education training for adults and others who had missed
such training in high school and worked with judges to get
violators to attend driver education classes in place of fines;
and
   WHEREAS, In view of the lives which have been saved by the
better driving habits of graduates of driver education and
training classes, and the mature responsibility for the safety
of others which is learned as part of these courses,- now, there-
fore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members commend Frank
Burrill and R. L. " C u b a " Morris for their vital part in the
passage of the law creating driver education and training as a
part of high school curriculum; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to Frank Burrill and R. L.
"Cuba "Morris.

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 66
     Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 65—Relative to the
                  death of James A. Evans.
               [Filed -with Secretary of State March 13, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature were deeply sad-
dened to learn of the recent untimely death of James A.
Evans; and
  WHEREAS, " J i m m y " was loved and respected by the many
persons in the State Capitol with whom he came in contact
through his long career as a legislative advocate; and
  WHEREAS, Always ready with a friendly word and a cheerful
smile, he brightened the day for many a legislator beset by
the complex and serious problems confronting this state; and
  WHEREAS, " J i m " was born in New York September 26,
1911, and came to California in 1922; and
  WHEREAS, He served with distinction in the armed forces
prior to and during World War I I , and then again responded
to his country's call during the Korean conflict; and
  WHEREAS, He ably served as a legislative advocate for the
California League of Senior Citizens, both in Sacramento and
Washington, D.C., from 1948 through 1964, and thereafter
represented the savings and loan industry; and
  WHEREAS, " J i m m y " Evans will be sorely missed by his
many friends, who will not soon forget his quick wit and
kindly manner; now, therefore, be it
3624               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Qn_ (57

  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members take this means
to express their sorrow at the passing of James A. Evans,
and to extend their sincere condolences to Mrs. Carol T.
Evans, his widow, and to John W. Evans, his brother and
former Member of the Assembly; and to William A. Evans,
his father, and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to Mrs. Carol T. Evans,
widow of James A. Evans, and to John W. Evans, his brother,
and to William A. Evans, his father.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 67
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 66—Relative to proclaiming
      the week of March 9 through 15 Toastmasters Week.
            [Filed with Secretary ol State March 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The ability to speak effectively, listen carefully,
and think critically is among the most valuable talents a per-
son can develop; and
   WHEREAS, The development of leadership abilities in men
is of great value to our democratic society and the free en-
terprise system; and
   WHEREAS, Toastmasters International, a nonprofit, nonsee-
tarian educational organization, is dedicated to providing the
opportunity for developing these talents; and
   WHEREAS, 479 toastmaster clubs with a total of 14,370
members in this state, make important contributions to
the public good through their participation in community
service and charitable programs; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of March 9 through 15 as Toast-
masters Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                KESOLUTION CHAPTER 68
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 64—Approving              an
  amendment to the Charter of the City of Napa, County of
  Napa, State of California, ratified by the qualified electors
  of the city at an election held therein on the fifth day of
  November, 1968.
            [Filed with Secretary of State March 13, 1969.]
                    1969
Res. Ch. 68]               REGULAR SESSION                  3^5

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
proposal, adoption, and ratification of an amendment to the
Charter of the City of Napa, a municipal corporation in the
County of Napa, State of California, as hereinafter set forth
in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city, as
follows:

State of California ]
County of Napa      > ss.
City of Napa        J
      CERTIFICATE OP RATIFICATION OF O N E AMENDMENT
           TO THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF NAPA

    "We, the undersigned, Ralph Trower, Mayor of the City of
Napa, and Allen R. Thorpe, City Clerk of said City, do hereby
certify as follows:
    That the City of Napa, a municipal corporation in the
County of Napa, State of California, now is and at all times
here in mentioned, was a city containing a population of more
than 3,500 and less than 50,000 inhabitants and is now, and
has been ever since January 26, 1915, organized, existing and
acting under a freeholders' charter adopted under and by
virtue of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the
State of California, which said Charter was duly ratified by
the qualified electors of said City of Napa at an election held
for that purpose on the 16th day of December 1914 and ap-
proved by the Legislature of the State of California on the
26th day of January, 1915.
    That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Ar-
ticle X I of the Constitution of the State of California the City
 Council of the City of Napa on its own motion duly made and
entered on the minutes of said City Council on September 2,
1968, duly and regularly prepared and proposed to submit to
the qualified voters of said City of Napa one proposed amend-
 ment to the Charter of said City of Napa, said charter amend-
ment being designated as Proposed Charter Amendment No. 1,
 filed in the office of the Clerk of said City of Napa on said
 September 2, 1968 and further ordered that said charter
 amendment should be submitted to and voted upon by the
 qualified voters of said City at a Consolidated General Election
  called and held for that purpose in said City on the 5th day
 of November, 1968.
     That said proposed charter amendment was published and
 advertised in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
 Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California on
 the 11th day of September, 1968, in the " N a p a County Rec-
 ord", a newspaper of general circulation printed and pub-
 lished in said City of Napa, and in all the editions thereof
 issued during said day of publication.
3626,             STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             [ R e s Q h . 68

   That said Consolidated General Election was held in said
City of Napa on November 5, 1968, and that at said elec|ion a
majority of the qualified voters voting thereon voted in favor
of said proposed charter amendment designated as Proposed
Charter Amendment No. 1, and that the Napa County Clerk,
as provided by law, duly and regularly canvassed the returns
of said election and did duly find, determine and declare the
result of said election to be that a majority of the qualified
voters of s,aid city voting on said proposed charter amendments
had voted for and ratified said amendments, and that the City
Clerk did enter on the record and in the minutes of said City
Council a statement of the result of said election.
   That said amendment to the Charter of the City of Napa, so
ratified by the electors of said City of Napa, is in words and
figures as fully set forth as follows:

Charter Amendment No. 1. That the fourth paragraph of
   Section 17A of the Charter of the City of Napa be amended
   to read as follows:
   The candidate who receives the most votes cast for the office
for which he is a candidate shall be elected to such office, ex-
cept that in the event there is more than one vacancy in the
office for which candidates are elected; the candidates up to the
number of vacancies who receive the highest number of votes
shall be elected to such vacancies.

  That we have compared the foregoing amendment with the
original proposal submitted to the electors of said City of Napa
and find that the foregoing is full, true, correct and exact copy
thereof, and we further certify that the facts set forth in the
preambles of this Certificate preceding said amendment to said
Charter are true.
  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of said City of Napa to be affixed hereto this
21st day of January, 1969.
                                KALPH TROWER
  (SEAL)                        Mayor of the City of Napa
                                 State of California
                                ALLEN R. THORPE
                                 City Clerk of the City of Napa
                                   State of California
and
   WHEREAS, The proposed amendment to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, has been and
now is duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment in accordance with Section 8 of Arti-
cle X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
                        1969
Res. Ch. 70]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3 6 27

elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of Napa,
County of Napa, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by,
the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth, is hereby
approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for and
as an amendment to and as part of the Charter of the City of
Napa, County of Napa.

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 69
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 49—Relative to
              proclaiming Good Nutrition Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The vitality of our citizens depends upon a life-
time of good food habits and good nutrition, these being the
foundation of physical well-being; and
   WHEREAS, The promotion of sound diets and good nutrition
helps Californians of all ages to maintain health and happi-
ness ; and
   WHEREAS, The people of the state are encouraged to know
and practice principles of dietetics and nutrition, as these
principles are promoted and taught by the California Dietetic
Association, an organization dedicated to improving human
nutrition and advancing the science of dietetics and nutrition;
and
   WHEREAS, A proclamation of Good Nutrition Week will
further encourage citizens throughout the state to learn more
of these vital subjects, and to apply to themselves the benefi-
cial principles of nutrition; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Governor
to proclaim the week of April 13th through 19th as Good
Nutrition Week; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared copy
to the California Dietetic Association.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 70

Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 48—Relative to request-
  ing the Governor to proclaim April 13-19 as Welcome Wagon
  Week.
            [Piled with Secretary of State March 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members of
the Assembly that Welcome Wagon International is observing
the 41st anniversary of its founding as an organization dedi-
cated to the family, social weKare, national defense, and civic
progress; and
3628               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 71

   "WHEREAS, Welcome "Wagon began in Santa Barbara, Cali-
fornia, in 1929 with only two hostesses and today there are
over 400 hostesses who make over 70,000 welcome visits a year
to newcomers in communities of our state; and
   "WHEREAS, The "Welcome Wagon hostess is a friendly link
between her community and the newcomer, easing the over-
burdening difficulties of establishing a new family living pat-
tern ; and
   WHEREAS, The praiseworthy work of Welcome Wagon de-
serves the earnest cooperation of all Californians; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members urge the Gover-
 nor to proclaim the week of April 13th through April 19,
1969, as Welcome Wagon Week in recognition of the outstand-
ing service which Welcome Wagon has rendered so faithfully
 to our state; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan and to
 Welcome Wagon International.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 71
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 57—Relative to
                memorializing Y. Frank Freeman.
             [Piled with Secretary of State March 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Assembly were saddened
to learn of the death of Mr. Y. Frank Freeman, former vice
president in charge of Paramount Studio operations; and
   WHEREAS, Y. Frank Freeman was born December 14, 1890,
in Greenville, Georgia, and graduated from Georgia Tech
with an electrical engineering degree in 1910; and
   WHEREAS, He entered the telephone business in Ocilla,
Georgia, which was his first direct contact with the public as
a supplier of goods and services, and later directed his
father's cotton operations; and
    WHEREAS, Mr. Freeman began his career in the motion pic-
ture industry by operating the Amusu Theatre in Fitzgerald,
Georgia, for his father-in-law, developing an interest in both
chain exhibition and distribution; and
    WHEREAS, After joining Lynch Enterprises, which dis-
tributed Paramount and Triangle pictures, he became general
sales manager in 1916 and later became vice president and
general manager of Southern Enterprises in 1919, which dis-
tributed films to 11 southern states; and
    WHEREAS, Y. Frank Freeman supervised the enormous real
estate holdings of Paramount and in 1934 assumed the direc-
 tion of theater operations, and in 1936 was elected vice presi-
 dent in charge of theater operations, which extended his re-
                   1969
Ees. Ch. 71]              REGULAR SESSION                 3629

sponsibility to over 1,400 United States and Canadian theaters
of the Paramount circuit, the largest in the world, and was
also made a board member of Paramount because of the out-
standing leadership he had demonstrated in guiding the
affairs of the company; and
   WHEREAS, He became vice president in charge of the Para-
mount Studios in Hollywood in 1938 and directed its opera-
tions until 1959; and
   WHEREAS, He was recognized as an outstanding motion pic-
ture executive by the film industry, having been elected a
three-term president and board chairman of the Association
of Motion Picture and Television Producers, governor of the
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and chair-
man of the Motion Picture Eesearch Council; and
   WHEREAS, He was deeply involved in humanitarian activi-
ties, including three-term campaign chairman and past
president of Motion Picture Permanent Charities Committee,
and held positions with the Motion Picture Relief Fund, Cru-
sade for Freedom, National Conference of Christians and
Jews, War Activities Committee, Hollywood Victory Com-
mittee, American Red Cross, and Los Angeles Welfare Fed-
eration and Community Chest and as a result of his activities
was the first recipient of the Jean Hersholt Award for Hu-
manitarianism awarded by the Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences in 1957; and
   WHEREAS, He was active in banking and civic affairs, hav-
ing been a member of the board of trustees of Georgia
Tech and the University of Southern California, chairman of
the Los Angeles Federal Reserve Board, deputy chairman of
the San Francisco Federal Reserve Board, and a member of
the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, Greater Los Angeles
Building Fund, Los Angeles World Affairs Council, South-
ern California Olympic Games Committee and Post-World
War II State Planning Commission; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Y. Frank Freeman had such a reputation
for integrity and was accorded such respect by both manage-
ment and labor in the film community that many a critical
issue was settled by the statement " I f Frank says it's okay,
then it's okay''; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Freeman, on the occasion of his 25th year
in Hollywood, was honored at a spectacular 1963 tribute by
 political, industry, labor, civic and charitable figures, in-
cluding President John F . Kennedy, for his distinguished
 service, inspiring personal example, integrity, religious con-
viction and fairness; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members extend their
 deepest sympathies to the widow of Mr. Y. Frank Freeman,
 Margaret Freeman; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
 suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Margaret Free-
 man.
3630                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Kes. Ch. 72

                 EESOLUTION CHAPTEK 72
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 58—Relative to
                       Freedom Season.
             [Piled with Secretary of State March 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the members that
the period from Flag Day (June 14th) through the Fourth
of July has been in past years recognized as "Freedom Sea-
s o n " ; and
   WHEREAS, The purpose of Freedom Season is to coordinate
nonpartisan, nonsectarian, and nonprofit patriotic celebrations
to emphasize pride in American citizenship, and is designed
to establish self-perpetuating, community-sponsored celebra-
tions of American independence, with active participation by
citizens, organizations, and businesses; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the period from June 14th to July 4th as
Freedom Season; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 73
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 61—Relating to commend-
  ing the Benevolent and Protective Order of the Elks, Lodge
  #6, and its exalted ruler, Richard Desmond.
             [Piled with Secretary of State March 19, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The members of the Benevolent and Protective
Order of the Elks, Lodge #6, will observe Recognition Night
on March 20, 1969, at which time they will honor their com-
munity and state as well as present awards to persons who
through their significant contributions improved the lives of
their fellow men; and
  WHEREAS, Through the distinguished and dynamic leader-
ship of their exalted ruler, Richard Desmond, the members of
Lodge #6 during the past year raised over seventeen thousand
dollars for charity, started active youth recreation programs,
aided many young people to obtain formal education by
granting scholarships, and presented Flag Day ceremonies
which portrayed the history of our flag; and
  WHEREAS, This outstanding record resulted in one of the
most successful membership drives in Elks history when more
than 600 new members joined Lodge #6; and
  WHEREAS, The members of Lodge #6 of the Benevolent and
Protective Order of the Elks can be proud of their outstand-
ing achievements under the leadership of their exalted ruler,
Richard Desmond; now, therefore, be it
                          1969
Res. Ch   751                    REGULAR SESSION                  3633

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members commend the
Benevolent and Protective Order of the Elks, Lodge #6, for
its outstanding record of achievements and commend their
exalted ruler, Eichard Desmond, for his selfless dedication to
community improvement programs; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suit-
ably prepared copies of this resolution to the Benevolent and
Protective Order of the Elks, Lodge #6, and to its exalted
ruler, Richard Desmond.

                    RESOLUTION CHAPTER 74
                Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 63—
                    Relative to Freedom's Season.
                [Filed with Secretary of State March 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, June 14 is traditionally celebrated as Flag Day
and July 4 as Independence Day; and
  WHEREAS, I t is altogether proper that the period between
these two historic dates should have special significance to
Americans; and
   WHEREAS, This period should be known as "Freedom's
Season" and be celebrated by the prominent display of the
American Flag, which is symbolic of that which is most
cherished and desired by man—freedom; and
   WHEREAS, This freedom represented by the American Flag
was hardwon by our forefathers and has thus far been pre-
served, and this heritage should be recognized by celebrations
organized during Freedom's Season under the motto ' ' Glad to
be an American"; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Governor
to proclaim June 14, 1969, through July 4, 1969, as " F r e e -
dom's Season" and urge all citizens to celebrate this occasion
by the prominent display of the American F l a g ; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a- copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                    RESOLUTION CHAPTER 75
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 12—Relative to flood control
              and water reclamation assistance.
                [Filed with Secretary of State March 25, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Many areas in California were devastated by floods
during the period January 22 through 27, 1969, causing loss
of life and destruction to public and private property; and
3632               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 76

   WHEREAS, The Governor of California has declared 27 coun-
ties in the state as disaster areas so victims of the flood may be
assisted in the repair of their properties and obtain necessary
relief; and
   WHEREAS, Eecent reports showed that existing flood control
projects, financed in part by the federal government were in-
strumental in preventing more damage than had been inflicted;
and
   WHEREAS, California is in the midst of a major flood con-
trol development program and has requested financial assist-
ance in the sum of $190,589,000 from the federal government
for flood control and water reclamation programs for the fiscal
year, 1969-1970; and
   WHEREAS, The President's budget for 1969-1970 includes
only $95,029,000 of the amount requested for flood control and
 water reclamation; and
   WHEREAS, The California Water Commission and the State
Department of Water Eesources has expressed great concern
 over those projects which were not funded, because it would
 delay some of the needed projects; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
 respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
 the United States to review the proposed flood control and
 water reclamation budget for California for the purpose of
 including within the federal budget those projects which were
 recommended but deleted so that the development of those
 projects can be expedited as a means of preventing the loss
 of further life and destruction of property in California; and
 be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
 copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
 of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
 sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
 fornia in the Congress of the United States.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 76
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 54—Relative to com-
    memorating the 200th anniversary of El Camino Tiejo.
             [Filed with Secretary of State March 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The modern history of California began in 1769
with the establishment of Mission San Diego de Alcala, by
F r a y Junipero Serra and the raising of the Spanish flag over
the presidio in San Diego by Don Gaspar de Portola; and
    WHEREAS, In that year, Portola also led an expedition in
search of Monterey Bay, as the second mission site, and blazed
the beginning of El Camino Viejo; and
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 771                    REGULAR SESSION                  3633

   WHEREAS, El C amino Viejo started at the San Antonio
Rancho of Don Luis Peralta on San Antonio Creek near
modern Oakland and terminated in San Pedro and was used
for a hundred years or more by early California, falling into
disuse only when the West Side branch of the Southern Pacific
Railroad was completed in 1890; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members hereby com-
memorate the 200th anniversary of Bl Camino Viejo and urge
the various counties and communities along its historic route
to mark and identify the route with signs, roadside rests, and
hiking, bicycling, and riding trails.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 77
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 62—
               Relative to the Cabrillo Festival.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The great and bountiful State of California is
now acknowledged and acclaimed as the first state in our
nation; and
   WHEREAS, This coveted position of leadership is attributable
in great measure to the strength and continuing contributions
of Californians from many foreign lands; and
   WHEREAS, The oldest and most significant of these contribu-
tions are those of the Portuguese people and their great nation;
and
   WHEREAS, Their contributions date from the very discovery
of our lands by the intrepid Portuguese navigator and ex-
plorer, Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo, in 1542; and
   WHEREAS, All the peoples of California take due and justi-
fiable pride in their rich cultural heritage; and
   WHEREAS, The state has set forth the week of September
28th for the annual celebration of the discovery of California
and the establishment of western civilization upon our lands
by Cabrillo and his gallant band; and
   WHEREAS, Cabrillo's landing on the shores of San Diego
Bay is commemorated and celebrated each year in San Diego
and throughout the state; and
   WHEREAS, The government and people of the great nation
of Portugal have historically joined with the people of Cali-
fornia in celebrating this event; and
   WHEREAS, The board of directors of Cabrillo Festival, Inc.,
have elected Almirante Sarmento Rodrigues an honorary di-
rector of their organization and conferred upon him the title
of Commissioner General of the Cabrillo Festival to the Gov-
ernment of Portugal; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the title of Commissioner
3634              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            .        [ R e g , Qfo. 78

General of the Cabrillo Festival to the Government of Por-
tugal be acknowledged as conferred upon Almirante Sarmento
Eodrigues by the directors of Cabrillo Festival; and be it
further
   Resolved, That this appointment be honored throughout the
state and that Almirante Sarmento Rodrigues be extended all
the rights and privileges attendant thereto in performance of
his commission as personal representative to the government
of Portugal for the citizens of California on all matters con-
cerning the accomplishments of Portugal throughout the
world, both past and present, but most specifically concerning
the annual celebration of the discovery of the West Coast of
the United States by Juan Eodriguez Cabrillo on September
28, 1542; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the board of
directors of Cabrillo Festival, Inc., and to Almirante Sar-
mento Rodrigues.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 78
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 69—Relative to
              Spanish-American Veterans Month.
           [Filed with Secretary of State March 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The year 1898 ushered in the age of modern
warfare first fought on a global scale, the same year saw the
emergence of the United States as a world power, and the
United States was engaged in conflict with Spain from April
21 to August 8,1898; and
   WHEREAS, Seventy-one years have passed since this country
fought the battles of the Spanish-American War in which
over 300,000 American armed forces members participated in
answer to President William McKinley's call to arms; and
   WHEREAS, Less than 8,000 of these gallant men and women
still survive to answer the muster of Spanish-American War
veterans, and less than 1,000 of these courageous fighting men
and brave nurses reside in the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, Thirty of these distinguished heroes of the Span-
ish-American War now reside at the Veterans Home of Cali-
fornia, Yountville, which opened its doors to accept its first
members on April 1, 1884, and has now been established as
California Registered Historical Landmark No. 828; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature hereby urges
the Governor of the State of California to proclaim the month
of April 1969 as Spanish-American Veterans Month and
hereby urges that all citizens of California prepare suitable
                        1969
Res. Ch. 801                   REGULAR SESSION                   3635
ceremonies honoring the living and the dead of the Spanish-
American W a r ; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor of the State of California.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 79
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 23—Relative to the ad-
  visory committee to the Joint Legislative Retirement Com-
  mittee.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 27, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the existence of the advisory
committee to the Joint Legislative Retirement Committee
created by Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 46, Resolution
Chapter 84, 1966 First Extraordinary Session of the Legis-
lature, shall terminate upon the adoption of this resolution
and its filing in the office of the Secretary of State.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 80
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 66—Relative to the
       death of former Assemblyman James L. Holmes.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 27, 1969.]

  WHEKEAS, It is with profound sorrow that the Members of
the Legislature learned of the untimely death of their long-
time colleague, former Assemblyman James L. Holmes; a n d
  WHEEEAS, He was born in 1903 in Oklahoma Indian T e r r i -
tory and can trace his lineage back to fighters in the Ameri-
can Revolution; and
   "WHEREAS, He moved to Santa Barbara, retired from a suc-
cessful business career in 1946, and became active in com-
munity affairs and politics, working on the successful sena-
torial campaign of President Nixon in 1950; and
   WHEREAS, In 1954, when his predecessor in the Assembly
announced his retirement, Mr. Holmes was asked by the Re-
publican County Central Committee to take up the b a n n e r
and run for the office; and
   WHEREAS, He was elected member of the 36th Assembly
District, comprising Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo
 Counties, and was reelected for four terms thereafter,- a n d
   WHEREAS, He brought to his legislative duties a broad back-
ground and outlook, which served him well as a member of
the Assembly Committees on Agriculture, Municipal and
 County Government, Public Utilities, Manufacturing, Oil and
3636               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Ees. Ch. 81

Mining and as Vice Chairman of the Fairs Allocation and
Classification Committee; and
   WHEREAS, His interest in progress and in the development
of the state was most evinced by his membership on the State
Constitution Eevision Commission; and
   WHEREAS, During his long residence in Santa Barbara, the
community "was enriched by his efforts as director of the re-
nowned Old Spanish Days Fiesta, past president of the Santa
Barbara Eepublican Men's Club, the Santa Barbara Keal Es-
tate Board and the Santa Barbara Shrine Club; and
   WHEREAS, He is remembered by his community for his un-
tiring efforts in assisting Community Chest, Red Cross,
Crippled Children's Hospital and other fundraising drives
for charity; and
   WHEREAS, Thousands of grateful constituents would testify
that Assemblyman Holmes as a man of honor, who always had
the time and concern for their problems and who consistently
demonstrated loyalty and devotion to his constituents, his
state and his country; and
   WHEREAS, All who knew, loved and respected James L.
Holmes deeply regret his death; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their
deep regret at the death of former Member of the Assembly
James L. Holmes; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to his wife, Margaret
Holmes.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTEE 81
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 95—
                  Relative to science fairs.
            [Filed with Secretary of State March 27, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the members that
the many science fairs held in California have contributed
greatly to the advancement of science and scientific education
in California; and
   WHEREAS, Science fairs have been responsible for starting
many youngsters on the road to a successful and rewarding
career in science; and
   WHEREAS, Science fairs have also focused attention on
science and given well-deserved recognition to many outstand-
ing students, and have indirectly resulted in scholarships and
meaningful summer employment to these students; and
  WHEREAS, Science fairs have given industry a chance to
contribute its services to furthering scientific education and
implemented effective communication between scientists in
education and industry; and
                        1969
Res. Ch. 82]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3637
  WHEBEAS, The major science fairs held in the state include
the Santa Clara Valley Science Fair, San Francisco Bay Area
Science Fair, California Central Valley Science Fairs held at
Chico, Fresno, Modesto and Sacramento, Tri-County Science
Fair at Salinas, Inland Science Fair at Indio, Greater San
Diego Science Fair, Orange County Science Fair and the Cali-
fornia State Science Fair at Los Angeles; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
various science fairs held in California for their contributions
to science and scientific education; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the Santa Clara
Valley Science Fair, San Francisco Bay Area Science Fair,
 California Central Valley Science Fairs at Chico, Fresno,
Modesto and Sacramento, the Tri-County Science F a i r at
 Salinas, Inland Science Fair at Indio, Greater San Diego
Science Fair, Orange County Science Fair and the California
State Science Fair at Los Angeles.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 82
        Senate Joint Resolution No. 4—Relative to public
                       lands grazing fees.
               [Filed with Secretary of State March 28, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, The Public Land Law Review Commission, ap-
pointed by Congress, has been holding extensive hearings on
public land utilization, and is deeply involved in the factors
related to grazing fees and costs; and
   "WHEREAS, The Congress of the United States is in the
process of holding hearings to explore in detail the full eco-
nomic impact of any major changes in grazing fees on public
lands; and
   "WHEREAS, The grazing fee issue is of extreme economic
importance not only to the livestock industry of the "West, but
also to a great many rural communities which are dependent
upon a stable, healthy and continuing livestock industry and
to the money generated from grazing livestock on public lands
to help finance their schools and county roads; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
 respectfully memorializes the President, the Secretary of Agri-
culture and the Secretary of the Interior to place a moratorium
 on the recently adopted grazing fee schedule for the purpose
 of reevaluation and to take no further action on grazing fees on
 public lands until there has been sufficient time to permit full
 congressional review and hearings of the report to be made by
3638               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res_ ^ h . g3

the Public Land Law Eeview Commission concerning the re-
sults of their current economic studies; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
the Interior, to the Speaker of the House of Eepresentatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in
the Congress of the United States.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 83
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 65—Relative to commend-
  ing the California centers of Recording for the Blind, Inc.
             [Filed with Secretary o£ State April 3, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members
 of the Assembly that Recording for the Blind, Inc., operates
 three lending library centers in California which are worthy
 of the highest commendation for their outstanding rehabilita-
 tion of the blind; and
    WHEREAS, Recording for the Blind, Inc., provided in
 1968 over 26,000 recorded books to over 4,000 borrowers in-
 cluding approximately 1,500 elementary and high school stu-
 dents, 1,500 college and graduate students, and 1,000 adults;
 and
    WHEREAS, Its lending libraries throughout the nation
 have over 12,000 titles available on discs and tape in all major
 fields of learning and in 14 foreign languages, and are adding
 from 200 to 300 new titles each month; and
    WHEREAS, Thousands of the group's students using the
"eyes of their minds" have advanced on the academic ladder,
many earning advanced degrees and contributing to our so-
ciety in a remarkable way; and
    WHEREAS, The nonprofit corporation relies entirely on
contributions and voluntary service and provides invaluable
assistance free of charge so that California's blind can have
greater opportunity to learn; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members heartily com-
mend the San Francisco, Los Angeles, and Pomona Valley
centers of Recording for the Blind, Inc., for their outstanding
and invaluable work in rehabilitating the blind and opening
up avenues of opportunity for full participation in our so-
ciety; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the San Fran-
cisco, Los Angeles, and Pomona Valley centers of Recording
for the Blind, Inc.
                       1969
Ees. Ch. 85]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3639
                  RESOLUTION CHAPTBE 84
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 69—Relative to
                 Invest-in-America  Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State April 3, 1969]

   WHEREAS, Throughout the United States it is the desire of
practically every American to have an investment in savings,
homes, farms, insurance, and securities; and
   WHEREAS, The economic growth experienced in California,
as well as throughout the United States, has been based on
the investment of individual savings and retained earnings of
businesses which, combined, have created opportunities, jobs,
and higher wages for all; and
   WHEREAS, An understanding of the interrelationship of
savings to the growth of our economy is fundamental; and
   WHEREAS, Invest-in-Ameriea provides all of us with an
opportunity to reaffirm our understanding that every citizen
is an investor; and
   WHEREAS, Invest-in-America has the universal support of
practically every segment of our society throughout California
and the nation; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
issue a proclamation designating the week beginning April
27, 1969, as "Invest-in-America W e e k " throughout the State
of California, and all citizens be encouraged to join in re-
affirming their faith in our American way of life; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor, and transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to the Invest-in-America
Week Committee for Northern California.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 85
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 71—Relative to proclaim-
  ing the week of June 14 through June 21 as National Paint-
  ing and Decorating Week.
               [Piled with Secretary of State April 3, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The skillful painting and decorating of homes in
the State of California have contributed to California's repu-
tation as an attractive and progressive state; and
  WHEREAS, The president of the Painting and Decorating
Contractors of America has urged that a special week be des-
ignated for a nationwide campaign to paint and decorate our
homes and property; and
3640               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 86

   WHEEEAS, Through the generosity of various painting con-
tractors, many buildings each year are improved and bright-
ened at no cost to the occupant; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members urge Governor
Ronald Reagan to proclaim the week of June 14 through 21,
1969, as "National Painting and Decorating W e e k " ; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to Governor Reagan and the president
of the Painting and Decorating Contractors of America.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 86
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 73—Relative to com-
      mending the Honorable William Patrick Clark, Jr.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 3, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t was with great pleasure that the Members of
the Assembly learned of the appointment of William Patrick
 Clark, Jr., to the superior court in San Luis Obispo County
and his assumption of the duties of his new office on January
31,1969; and
   WHEREAS, Bill Clark is a member of a pioneer Ventura
County family as his grandfather, Robert Emmett Clark,
came to the Ojai Valley in 1881 and served as a sheriff and
United States marshal, and his father, William Patrick
 Clark, Sr., served as Police Chief of Oxnard; and
   WHEREAS, A fourth-generation Ventura County resident,
Bill Clark was born October 23, 1931, in Oxnard, and, after
attending Villanova Preparatory School, he graduated from
Stanford University before serving his country in the United
States Army Counter Intelligence Corps from 1954 to 1956;
and
   WHEREAS, Bill Clark attended Loyola University Law School
at night from 1956 to 1958 while working as an insurance ad-
juster, and, eligible to take the California State Bar examina-
tion after 2£ years of study, he passed the examination in the
spring of 1958 and commenced the practice of law in Oxnard
the day following his admission; and
   WHEREAS, After serving as gubernatorial county campaign
manager in 1966, he was the fourth person appointed by Gov-
ernor Ronald Reagan to his cabinet, and served as cabinet
secretary from 1966 to 1967 when he was appointed executive
secretary, a position he held until his resignation to assume
his present duties; and
   WHEREAS, Possessing a capacity for work and a devotion
to duty shared by few men, Bill Clark was deeply involved in
the decisionmaking process in- the Governor's office, and, show-
                       1969
Res. Ch. 87]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3641

ing a talent for innovation as well as administration, he origi-
nated the "mini-memo" system which briefs the Governor on
the status of issues and assists in the formulation of deci-
sions which become policy; and
   WHEEEAS, Always active in community activities as the
owner of an 880-acre cattle and grain ranch in San Luis
Obispo County, he has served as president of the Villanova
Alumni Association and as a member of Stanford Associates,
Rancheros Visitadores, and the Farm Bureau Federation; and
   "WHEEEAS, He and his gracious wife, the former Joan M.
Brauner of Munich, Germany, are the proud parents of five
lovely children: Monica, Peter, Nina, Colin, and P a u l ; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
Honorable "William Patrick Clark, Jr., for his outstanding
service to the citizens of California as a member of the Gov-
ernor's cabinet from 1966 to 1968, congratulate him upon his
appointment to the superior court in San Luis Obispo County,
and wish him continued success in all his future endeavors;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a suitably prepared copy of this resolution to the Honorable
William Patrick Clark, Jr.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 87
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 76—Relative to
                  memorializing Pat Nolet.
               [Filed with Secretary of State April 3, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, I t was with the most sincere and profound sor-
row that the Members of the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia learned of the death of P a t Nolet, a distinguished civic
and industrial leader; and
  WHEEEAS, Pat Nolet was born in Los Angeles and came in
1936 to Merced, where the firm of Miles and Sons was founded
and, under his guidance as president and chairman of the
board of directors, grew to become one of the largest trans-
portation operations in the state and the largest year-round
industry in Merced, employing today some 850 persons and
consisting of two major corporations, Miles and Sons Truck-
ing Service and Miles Motor Transport System; and
  WHEEEAS, Devoting much of his time and energies to the bet-
terment of his community, P a t Nolet was active in numerous
civic affairs as chairman of the advisory board of Mercy Hos-
pital in Merced, as a member of the board of directors of the
Merced County Fair and president of the board from 1965
through 1967, as the head of various charity fundraising cam-




                              <*
3642               STATUTES OF CALlFOBNIA                     [JJes_ Qfa 88

paigns, such as chairman of the Salvation Army Fund drive
and director of the United Fund, and as a member of the
Merced Chamber of Commerce, the Merced Boosters, and the
Merced Development Association; and
  WHEREAS, Among his business and professional activities, he
was a member of the board of directors of Standard Materials,
of the Fresno Guarantee Savings and Loan Association, and
of the Transport Indemnity Insurance Company; was active
for many years with the California Trucking Association; and
was president of the Truck Owners Association and vice presi-
dent of the Western Highway Institute; and
  WHEREAS, His many notable achievements and outstanding
contributions to the community will long be remembered and
serve as an inspiration to all Californians; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their
deep regret on the passing of Pat Nolet and extend their sin-
cere condolences to his family and many friends; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the widow of Pat
Nolet, Mrs. Patricia Louise Nolet, and to his son, William M.
Nolet, his daughter, Laurie Jane Nolet, his brother, W. W.
Miles, and his sisters, Mrs. Leontine Blair and Mrs. Kathleen
Howell.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 88
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 101—Relative to com-
    mending the City of Bakersfield on its centennial year.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 3, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, It has come to the attention of the Members of the
Legislature that 1969 is the 100th anniversary of Bakersfield's
founding; and
   WHEREAS, There will be a centennial parade on April 19 in
conjunction with the second annual Kern County Museum
Heritage Day on April 19 and 20; and
   WHEREAS, The proud city of Bakersfield got its start in 1869
when the Havilah Courier moved to Bakersfield, becoming the
Kern County Courier, and the first public school, Kern Island
School, was established; and
   WHEREAS, The town was surveyed and laid out by Colonel
Thomas Baker and General William J. Palmer and became the
county seat; and
   WHEREAS, Bakersfield began with only 600 "pioneers" in
1869 and now is a thriving city; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members congratulate the
citizens of Bakersfield on their centennial celebration and com-
                        1969
Ees. Ch. 90]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3543

mend their leaders on their outstanding civic achievement; and
be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the Bakersfield
City Council and the Board of Supervisors of Kern County.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 89
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 27—Relative to the              Joint
       Committee on Legislative Building Space Needs.
               [Filed with Secretary of State April 7, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Joint Committee on Leg-
islative Building Space Needs as created and empowered by
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 91 (Res. Ch. 242, Stats.
1968) and as duly constituted thereunder is hereby continued
in existence until the first day of the 1970 Regular Session of
the Legislature, with authority to file its first report not later
than the fifth legislative day of that session, and with the same
powers and responsibilities as heretofore exercised; and be it
further
   Resolved, The any unexpended money remaining from the
sum made available to such committee from the Contingent
Funds of the Assembly and Senate by Resolution Chapter 242
of the Statutes of 1968 is hereby made available to the com-
mittee for the same purposes on the same terms and conditions
as heretofore.

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 90
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 59—Relative to
          California's industrial and business climate.
               [Filed with Secretary of State April 10, 1969.]

   WHEKEAS, The fullest economic potential must be exploited
in order to achieve employment for the state's growing popu-
lation ; and
   WHEREAS, The California Legislature believes that the crea-
tion of new jobs and tax-supporting enterprises by the state's
business community, through capital investment and individual
initiative, is necessary for California to supply jobs for the
evergrowing work force and remain in its preeminent position
in the United States of America; and
   WHEREAS, Efforts to attract new industries must be accel-
erated, thereby continuing California's competitive position as
a top industrial state; and
   WHEREAS, New markets for California farm and factory
products must be tapped, thereby bringing new wealth into
3644               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 91

the state and raising the standard of living of all Californians;
and
   WHEKEAS, A favorable environment for business growth and
development in California must be encouraged—such environ-
ment being composed of attitudes of government and other
groups in fields which are economic, political and social; and
   WHEREAS, The actions of legislative and regulatory bodies
to improve the environment in which business and industry
operate contribute directly to continuing prosperity of all
Calif ornians; and
   "WHEREAS, Industries seeking new industrial locations are
greatly concerned about the relative business climate condi-
tions prevailing among the several states; and
   WHEREAS, Fostering a favorable business climate is in the
public interest and can be achieved without discriminating
against any other interest in California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Legislature, in its delibera-
tions henceforth, shall give primary consideration to, among
other items, the expansion of job opportunities, stimulation of
capital investment and encouragement of individual initiative
in California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Members of this Legislature hereby re-
quest the Governor, as well as directors of the various state
departments, to examine their own discretionary actions and
orders which relate to business, industry, and agriculture, in
terms of the effect of such governmental actions on job-payroll
opportunities in California industry; and be it further
   Resolved, That the State Legislature reaffirm its dedication
to fair treatment in legislation and regulation for all segments
of the state's economy; to equitable tax policies; and to im-
partial treatment for labor and management in their relation-
ship with government; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Governor, the Secretary of State, the
State Controller, the State Treasurer and the head of each
principal department and regulatory body in the state govern-
ment.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 91
        Assembly Joint Resolution No. 5—Relative to
            restricting minors from entering Mexico.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 11, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The use of narcotics by minors has become an
extremely serious problem in the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, There is ample evidence that considerable quan-
tities of narcotics are brought into the State of California by
minors across the California-Mexican border; and
                          1969
Res   Ch   921                   REGULAR SESSION                   3645

   WHEREAS, The situation is of particular concern to those
cities in the southern part of the state and close proximity to
the Mexican border; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States
to conduct hearings in southern California to consider the
closing of the California-Mexican border to minors unless they
are accompanied by a parent or other responsible adult; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


                     RESOLUTION CHAPTER 92
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 7—Relating to federal indem-
      nity for tuberculosis or brucellosis reacting cattle.
                 [Filed with Secretary of State April 11, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, A S originally conceived, the loss incurred for
cattle slaughtered because they were found to be tuberculosis
or brucellosis reactors was to be equally apportioned one-third
to the state, one-third to the federal government, and one-third
to the owner of the animal; and
   WHEREAS, This formula is only just and equitable in view
of the benefit to the state and nation from this program of
disease control; and
   WHEREAS, Both the federal and state implementing statutes
and regulations provide for a maximum amount to be paid for
each such grade animal or purebred animal; and
   WHEREAS, The California maximum is $50 for a grade ani-
mal and $75 for a purebred animal for tuberculosis reactors,
 and is $75 for a grade animal and $100 for a purebred animal
for brucellosis reactors, but the federal maximum is only $25
for a grade animal and $50 for a purebred animal for both
 diseases; and
   WHEREAS, I t is proposed that the maximum share for the
 State of California be raised to $100 for any grade animal and
 $125 for any purebred animal for both diseases; and
   WHEREAS, The unrealistic federal maximum results in the
 owner of the animal being required to bear a substantially dis-
 proportionate share of the loss, as illustrated by a recent survey
 in California; and
   WHEREAS, The only fair and just share of the federal govern-
 ment would be the contemplated one-third share; now, there-
 fore, be it
3646                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Reg_   C h   93

   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Congress of the United States and the
U.S. Department of Agriculture are respectfully requested
to take immediate steps to provide for the federal share of
indemnity for slaughtered tuberculosis or brucellosis reacting
cattle to be raised to $100 for grade animals and $125 for pure-
bred animals; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Eepresent-
atives, to the Secretary of Agriculture, and to each Senator
and Eepresentative from California in the Congress of the
United States.

                 EESOLUTION CHAPTBE 93
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 74—Relative to
               Mexican-American Education Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 11, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Since the founding of the first Spanish settlement
 on California soil in 1769, the exploration of this state was
led by the teaching padres, whose task it was to build colonies
 and bring education and agriculture to California; and
   WHEREAS, California's early mission buildings and vast
ranches were the start of our present day agricultural and
ranching industries; and
   WHEREAS, California's excellence in education is an out-
 growth of early mission schools, and California's map abounds
with Spanish place names; and
   WHEREAS, There has been a steady migration of Mexican
bloodlines from south of the border so that Mexican-Ameri-
cans now comprise more than 10 percent of California's pop-
ulation as an integral part of our rich heritage; and
   WHEREAS, Mexican-Americans do not participate to the ex-
tent their numbers and abilities warrant and Californians
have a special obligation to involve them in the social, eco-
nomic, political and cultural life of this state; and
   WHEREAS, Cultural awareness includes informing all Cali-
fornians of the contributions of Mexican-Americans to our
heritage and of California's role in improving and enhanc-
ing the betterment of this group from early childhood through
higher education; and
   WHEREAS, Unlimited possibilities in California's future,
through broadened and expanded educational opportunities,
are being opened to Californians of Mexican descent, who
should be encouraged to take advantage of these opportunities;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request Gover-
                        1969
Res. Ch. 95]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3647

nor Reagan to proclaim the week of October 12-18, 1969, as
Mexican-American Education Week, and urge all Calif ornians
to participate in this significant occasion; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Reagan.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 94
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 80—Relative to proclaim-
  ing the month of March 1969 as American Legion 50th An-
  niversary Month.
               [Piled with Secretary of State April 11, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The American Legion was founded in 1919,
shortly after the cessation of World War I hostilities, as an
organization of wartime veterans dedicated to continuing serv-
ice to God and country; and
   WHEREAS, The American Legion this year is observing its
50th year as a fraternity of service with a membership en-
compassing four generations of war veterans; and
   WHEREAS, Its major contributions to American thought and
deed and its endeavors to strengthen our freedom and to
perpetuate our free institutions have identified the American
Legion as one of the great bulwarks of the American
way of life; and
   WHEREAS, The American Legion has achieved its position
of high esteem through its programs of service to community,
state and nation; and
    WHEREAS, Such programs have become an integral part of
 California, and the local American Legion organization a civic
 asset; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, by the Assembly of the State of California, the
 Senate thereof concurring, That the members request Gover-
 nor Reagan to proclaim the month of March 1969 as Ameri-
 can Legion 50th Anniversary Month, and to call upon all
 citizens, business houses, and organizations to join with us
 in commending the good works of this organization as an ex-
 pression of our appreciation of both the wartime and peace-
 time services of our Legionnaires; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
 a copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


                    RESOLUTION CHAPTER 95
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 91—Relative to the
              observance of Secretaries' Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State April 11, 1969.]

    115—1954
3648                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Reg   Q^ gg

   WHEREAS, The American secretary is resolved to maintain
the highest professional and personal ethics in her increasingly
vital role in the modern complexities of business, industry,
government and education; and
   WHEREAS, Secretarial work has attained the status of exact-
ing and highly qualified career work; and
   WHEREAS, The American secretary believes that her diligence
should be directed to increased learning, efficiency, and loyalty
in making ever more valuable her contribution to the office
in which she is employed; and
   WHEREAS, The last full week in April is set aside each year
by the Secretary of Commerce to honor all American secre-
taries ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is urged to
proclaim the week of April 20 through 26 as Secretaries'
Week and April 23 as Secretaries' Day throughout the State
of California and the members urge business and the secretary
alike to pay tribute to the '' First Lady of American Business''
by honoring all secretaries for their services to the community
and to the state; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the Governor,
the President of the California Division, National Secretaries'
Association (International), Constance McCauley, and to the
California Chairman of Secretaries' Week, for the National
Secretaries' Association, Mrs. Barbara Gibson.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 96
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 100—Relative
              to Camp Fire Girls' Birthday Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 11, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Camp Fire Girls commemorate the 59th anni-
versary of Founder's Day on March 17th and the week of
March 23 through March 29, 1969, as Camp Fire Girls' Birth-
day Week; and
   WHEREAS, The Camp Fire Girls offers programs through
which a girl can gain valuable knowledge of herself and oth-
ers, understanding of her own interests and abilities, and op-
portunities to serve as a mature and independent person; and
   WHEREAS, The major aim of this vital youth organization for
girls is significant involvement and through the guidance of
trained volunteers, girls advance into specialized activities in
25 fields of interest; and
   WHEREAS, The activities of the Camp Fire Girls include
learning skills applicable to their future life in business, home
and community and engaging in projects and programs for the
betterment of their community; and
Res. Ch. 97]            1969
                               REGULAR SESSION                   3649

  WHEREAS, Typical of their activities is their involvement in
conservation projects in their home communities as a result of
a recent conference, a '' Conservation Be-In,'' for teenage mem-
bers to explore and study various controversial issues in target
areas and their pilot program to reach girls from low-income
families which is proving invaluable both to inner-city volun-
teer leaders and girls who are being made aware of the vast
new wonders of the world in which they live; and
   WHEREAS, It is appropriate during this 59th anniversary of
Founder's Day that the entire community join in honoring the
Camp Fire Girls, its members and its volunteer leaders, for the
excellent work in which they are participating; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the members urge Governor Ron-
ald Reagan to proclaim the week of March 23 through March
29, 1969, as "Camp Fire Girls' Birthday W e e k " ; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to Governor Reagan and to the Camp
Fire Girls.

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 97
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 113—Relative
               to Environmental Health Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State April 11, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The health and safety of all Californians are of
prime importance in the continuing development and growth
of this state; and
   WHEREAS, Public health sanitarians are the persons who
enforce the health and safety regulations on both the county
and state levels; and
   WHEREAS, These regulations relate to essential facets of a
person's environment, such as the hygiene of housing, food
service facilities, recreation, solid and liquid waste, water sup-
ply, vector control and air pollution; and
   WHEREAS, The public health sanitarian is highly qualified
and trained in the field of environmental health, and has
passed an examination before the State Director of Public
Health for certification as a registered sanitarian, and is en-
titled to engage in activities in the field of environmental
sanitation in the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, The California Association of Sanitarians will
host its annual educational conference in the City of Fresno
on April 17 and 18,1969; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the week of April 13 to A p r i l
3650                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     r j j ^ Qh. 98

19, 1969, is hereby proclaimed Environmental Health Week;
and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to the California
Association of Sanitarians.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 98
         Assembly Joint Resolution No. 11—Relative to
                 offshore oil and gas operations.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 14, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The great scenic beauty of the California coast-
 line and the coastal fish and wildlife resources of the state are
 threatened with imminent damage and destruction from a mas-
 sive flow of crude petroleum from an oil leak at an oil and gas
 operation off the Santa Barbara coast; and
    WHEEEAS, Such operations are under federal regulation and
 the State of California has had no voice in the granting of
 offshore oil and gas leases by the federal government, although
 the terrible danger these operations represent to the coastal
 resources of the state is now tragically evident; now, there-
 fore, be it
    Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
 fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
 the United States to obtain the approval of the State of Cali-
fornia with respect to any future oil and gas exploration or
development operations off the California coast prior to the
permitting of such operations on federal lands; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President of
the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, to the Secretary of the Interior, and to each Senator
and Representative from California in the Congress of the
United States.

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 99
    Assembly Joint Resolution No. 20—Relative to federal
      assistance to storm- and flood-damaged businesses.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Many areas in California were devastated by re-
cent storms and floods causing untold damage to, and de-
struction of, places of business; and
   WHEREAS, The Governor of California has declared 27
counties in the state as disaster areas so victims of such storms
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 101]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3651

and floods may be assisted in the repair of their properties
and other relief; and
   WHEREAS, The businesses which were destroyed and dam-
aged by such storms and floods are in dire need of federal as-
sistance ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to provide assistance to businesses damaged
or destroyed by storms and floods by either providing funding
to implement existing aid programs or providing a new aid
program; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 100
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 78—Relative to proclaim-
        ing Children With Learning Disabilities Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State April 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t is of vital concern to us all that the best pos-
sible training and education be afforded those children who
have learning disabilities in order that they may take their
places in our society as productive and responsible citizens,
their potentialities fully developed and fully realized; and
   WHEREAS, Further study and research are necessary in this
important area of education, special programs must be de-
veloped, and new methods of teaching devised, and this task
can only be carried forth with the firm support of an informed
citizenry; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim May 11 to May 17 as Children With Learn-
ing Disabilities Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                    RESOLUTION CHAPTER 101
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 79—Relative to
                    "Antilitter   Month."
                [Piled with Secretary of State April 14, 1969.]
3652               STATUTES OF CAMPOENIA                   [EeS. Ch. 102

   WHEREAS, Despite her explosive population growth, eco-
nomic development and urbanization, California is still one of
the cleanest and most beautiful states in the nation; and
   WHEREAS, Public awareness is needed for improving the
existing conditions that relate to and affect the appearance
of the highways and byways of the state; and
   WHEREAS, It is all-important that Californians not fall into
a state of complacency regarding their surroundings, and it is
only through the individual support of all its citizenry that
California will remain clean and beautiful; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members hereby request
the Governor to proclaim the month of May as California
"Antilitter Month" to help reduce the $50 million annua]
cost of litter pickup, and urge all Californians to support this
proclamation by individually contributing to maintaining and
furthering the beauty of this great state by refraining, and
encouraging others to refrain, from littering public as well as
private property with papers, cans, bottles and other refuse;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
 copy of this resolution to the Governor of the State of Cali-
 fornia.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 102
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 81— Relative to
                proclaiming Square Dance Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, More and more Californians are participating in
square dancing, and there are now some 50,000 square dancers
throughout this state; and
   WHEREAS, Since the days when covered wagons crossed the
vast wilderness which was America, square dancing has been
not only a form of family recreation, but it contributes to
physical fitness as well; and
   WHEREAS, There is a growing recognition of this national
dance that is truly American; and
   WHEREAS, There is a large number of associations of square
dancers in this state; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
issue a proclamation designating the week beginning Septem-
ber 7, 1969, as "Square Dance Week," and inviting the people
of California to participate in this great sport and tradition;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.
                         1969
Kes. Ch. 104]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3653
                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 103
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 107—Relative
                to "Cancer Control Month."
                [Filed with Secretary of State April 14, 1969.]

  "WHEREAS, The American Cancer Society estimates that ap-
proximately 85,000 Californians will be under treatment for
cancer in 1969; and
  WHEREAS, It is estimated that the lives of one-half of these
patients could be saved through early detection and treat-
ment; and
  WHEREAS, One-third of the state's cancer patients can now
be reasonably sure of survival, while an additional one-sixth
remains in serious danger of dying needlessly because of delays
in treatment or recognition of the disease; and
  WHEREAS, A major purpose of the American Cancer So-
ciety's annual Cancer Crusade is to help alert the citizens of
this state to the ways in which cancer can most readily be pre-
vented or detected; and
  WHEREAS, This lifesaving activity is deserving of the com-
mendation and support of all Californians; now, therefore,
be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
proclaim April 1969 as "Cancer Control Month," and to urge
the fullest possible participation by the people of California
in the American Cancer Society's Cancer Crusade; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 104
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 74—Relative
                 to Private Education Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State April 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, A significant percentage of students of the State
of California are receiving their education in private ediica-
tional institutions; and
   WHEREAS, Private education is supported by other than
public funds, although the constituents of private education
pay their share of taxes supporting public schools; and
   WHEREAS, The State of California is relieved of the tax
burden associated with the education of those students en-
rolled in private educational institutions; and
   WHEREAS, Private educational institutions date from the
earliest history of our nation, having produced some of its
greatest leaders; and
3654               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. Ch. 105

   WHEREAS, The existence of private educational institutions
represents faith in the United States of America, its ideals
and institutions; and
   WHEBEAS, Private education seeks to exemplify those hu-
man qualities that inspire character and wholesome citizen-
ship ; and
   WHEREAS, Private education provides a healthy balance of
competition to public education, thus assuring quality for both
systems; and
   WHEREAS, The private educational institutions in the State
of California wish to celebrate "Private Education Week"
November 17-21, 1969; and thereafter the third week of No-
vember of each year; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Members commend the
teachers and administrators of all the private educational in-
stitutions in the State of California for their tireless dedica-
tion to the education and training of the youth of this state
enrolled in private schools, urge the Governor to proclaim
November 17-21, 1969, as Private Education Week, and join
with all of the people of California in celebrating this week;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 105
    Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 97—Relative to
      congratulating Palo Alto on its 75th Anniversary.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The site of the City of Palo Alto was discovered
in November 1769 by Spanish explorers under the command
of Don Gaspar de PortoM, who camped beside San Francis-
quito Creek under a centuries-old redwood tree, naming it El
Palo Alto, meaning " t h e tall stick"; and
   WHEREAS, The city was founded in 1889 as University Park
and later renamed in 1892 as Palo Alto after the Palo Alto
Farm established by Senator Leland Stanford, which later
became the site of Stanford University; and
   WHEREAS, In January 1893, when the Palo Alto Times was
first published, the population of Palo Alto reached 400; the
city was incorporated on April 16, 1894, and in 1925, follow-
ing a heated annexation campaign, Mayfield became a part
of the city, increasing the population of 9,000 by 1,700, thus
insuring the continued growth of Palo Alto as a fine com-
munity of superior residential qualities for its present 58,000
residents; and
                      1969
Res. Ch. 106]                REGULAR SESSION                  3655
    "WHEREAS, I t is the home of the world-renowned Stanford
 University, ranked as one of the top 10 universities in the na-
 tion, founded "where the rolling foothills r i s e " in 1891 by
 Senator Stanford, who declared, after the untimely death of
his 16-year old son, Leland Stanford, Jr., in 1884, that " t h e
children of California shall be my children''; and
    WHEREAS, Largely through the pioneering work in elec-
tronics by the Varian Brothers and Hewlett-Packard, Palo
Alto has become one of the two electronic industry centers in
the nation; and
    WHEREAS, With two veterans' hospitals, the Palo Alto Medi-
cal Research Foundation, the Palo Alto Clinic, and the School
of Medicine, Medical Center, and Hospital Center of Stanford
University, the city has become a center of medical research,
as exemplified by the first implantation of the human heart
in this country; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members congratulate the
City of Palo Alto upon the occasion of its 75th anniversary
and commend its citizens for their contribution to the growth
of California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Governor is requested to proclaim April
16, 1969, as "Palo Alto D a y " ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy of this resolution to the Honorable Frances K. Dias,
Mayor of Palo Alto.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 106
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 77—Relative to proclaiming
  the week of April 13-20, 1969, as International Want Ad
  Week.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The want ad is one of the most important services
offered by newspapers to their readers; and
   WHEREAS, The origin of the idea of want ads, or classified
advertising, is many times older than the history of newspa-
pers, but it was with the advent of newspapers that want ads
really came into their own, and from that day to this, want
ads have made up an integrally important part of the content
of the newspaper; and
   WHEREAS, The want ad is the communication medium be-
tween seller and buyer, service needed and service wanted, and
employer and prospective employee; and
   WHEREAS, Informality, ease of preparation, and relative low
cost are benefits provided by the want ad; and
  WHEREAS, Messages in the want ad reflect the mood and time
of its respective generations of readers; and
3656                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ R e s Qfa 1Q7

   WHEEBAS, The want ad provides daily entertaining and
informative reading to the public; and
   WHEREAS, International Want Ad Week, approximately 50
years old, and sponsored by the Association of Newspaper
Classified Advertising Managers, is a week when newspapers
throughout the world promote their want ad section; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
issue a proclamation designating the week of April 13-20,
1969, as International Want Ad Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                KESOLUTION CHAPTEE 107
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 77—Relative to
                     Public Schools Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, Public Schools Week, an event which has been
 observed in California since 1919, will be celebrated April 21
 through April 25, 1969; and
    WHEREAS, Continuing faith in American ideals and institu-
 tions, and the social and economic stability of the state and
 the nation, depend upon free public education; and
    WHEREAS, California has achieved notable success in the field
 of education under an arrangement whereby the state has
 shared with local communities its responsibility for maintain-
 ing an effective system of free public schools; and
    WHEREAS, The purpose of Public Schools Week is to renew
the dedication of the citizens of California to the continuation
and improvement of our system of free public schools; and
    WHEREAS, Public Schools Week has been sponsored each
year since its inception by the Grand Lodge of California,
Free and Accepted Masons; and
   WHEREAS, Public Schools Week affords every citizen of the
state the opportunity to remain informed about the public
schools in his community; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members acknowledge
Public Schools Week, April 21 through 25, 1969, and commend
this annual event and its sponsors and all the public schools
of California for enhancing public understanding of the work
of the dedicated teachers and administrators to whom are en-
trusted the education and training of the future citizens of
this state; and be it further
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 1081               REGULAR SESSION                   3657
   Resolved, That the members request the Governor to pro-
claim April 21 through 25, 1969, as Public Schools Week; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 108
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 138—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of Glendale, County of Los
  Angeles, State of California, ratified by the qualified electors
  of the city at a municipal election held therein on the first
  day of April, 1969.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of amendments to the Charter
of the City of Glendale, a municipal corporation in the County
of Los Angeles, State of California, as hereinafter set forth in
the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city, as fol-
lows:

    CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION OF CHARTER AMENDMENT
           BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF GLENDALE

State of California   ]
County of Los Angeles J- ss.
City of Glendale      J
   We, Kenneth R. Stephens, Mayor of the City of Glendale,
and John H. Walters, City Clerk and ex-officio Clerk of The
Council of the City of Glendale, do hereby certify and declare
as follows:
   That the City of Glendale, in the County of Los Angeles,
State of California, is now, and was at all of the times men-
tioned herein, a city containing a population of more than
fifty thousand inhabitants as ascertained by the last preceding
census taken under the authority of the Congress of the United
States;
   That the City of Glendale is now, and was at all of the times
herein mentioned, organized and existing under a freeholders'
charter, adopted under the provisions of Section 8, Article X I
of the Constitution of the State of California, which Charter
was duly ratified by a majority of the electors of the City at
a special municipal election held for that purpose on the 29th
day of March, 1921, and approved by the Legislature of the
State of California by concurrent resolution filed with the Sec-
retary of State on the 11th day of May, 1921 (Assembly Con-
current Resolution No. 30, Chapter 71, Statutes 1921, p . 2205),
  3658               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 108

       That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8, Article
    X I of the Constitution of the State of California, The Council
    of the City of Glendale, being the legislative body of the City,
    on its own motion by Eesolution No. 16,166 adopted on the
    29th day of October, 1968; by Resolution No. 16,169 adopted
    on the 29th day of October, 1968, and by Resolution No. 16,186
    adopted on the 26th day of November, 1968, duly and regu-
   larly submitted to the qualified electors of the City three pro-
   posals for the amendment of the Charter of the City of Glen-
   dale, which were designated Charter Amendment No. 1,
   Charter Amendment No. 2, and Charter Amendment No. 3
   respectively; and The Council ordered that the said proposed
   Charter amendments be submitted to the qualified electors of
   the City at a special municipal election to be held in the City
   on the 1st day of April, 1969, which date was fixed in the said
   resolutions as the date for holding the special municipal elec-
  tion.
      That on the 18th day of February, 1969, the proposed Char-
   ter amendments were published and advertised in accordance
  with Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution, in the Glendale
  News-Press, the official newspaper of the City and a news-
  paper of general circulation therein, and in each edition
  thereof during the day of publication.
      That copies of the proposed Charter amendments were
  printed in convenient pamphlet form in type of not less than
  ten-point, and were mailed to each of the qualified electors of
  the City j and copies thereof could be had upon application
 therefor at the office of the City Clerk on and from February
 18, 1969, to and including April 1, 1969; and a notice was
 advertised and published on and from February 18, 1969,
 until March 31, 1969, in the Glendale News-Press, a news-
 paper of general circulation in the City, that copies thereof
 might be had at the office of the City Clerk upon application
 therefor.
     That The Council of the City did, by ordinance designated
 as Ordinance No. 3843, which was duly passed on the 25th
 day of February, 1969, order the holding of a general and
 special municipal election in the City of Glendale on the 1st
 day of April, 1969, which date was not less than forty days,
 and not more than sixty days after the completion of the pub-
lication of the proposed Charter amendments as aforesaid,
which said ordinance was published once a week for two weeks
prior to the time for the holding of said election, to wit: on
March 12, 1969, and March 19, 1969, pursuant to the provi-
sion of the Charter of the City of Glendale, in the Glendale
News-Press; and The Council did by ordinance order the Spe-
cial Municipal Election consolidated with the General Munic-
ipal Election to be held in the City on the 1st day of April,
1969.
    That the Special Municipal Election was held in the City
of Glendale on the 1st day of April, 1969, which day was not
                     1969
 Ees. Ch. 108]              REGULAR SESSION                  3659

less than forty days, and not more than sixty days after the
proposed amendment to said Charter had been published in
 the Glendale News-Press.
   That thereafter The Council of the City of Glendale did in
the manner provided by law duly and regularly canvass the
returns of the Special Municipal Election and did, by resolu-
tion adopted April 7, 1969, duly declare the results of the
Special Municipal Election as determined from the canvass of
the returns thereof.
   That at the Special Municipal Election, Charter Amend-
ment No. 1 was ratified by a majority of the electors of the
City voting thereon.
   That Charter Amendment No. 1 so ratified by the electors
of the City of Glendale is in words and figures as follows:

                   Charter Amendment No. 1
    Section 11 of Article V I of the Charter of the City of Glen-
 dale is amended to read:
   "(Article VI) Section 11. Official Advertising. All offi-
 cial advertising of the city shall be done in one or more news-
papers of general circulation, as defined by the laws of the
 State of California, which shall be published in the City of
 Glendale. The council shall annually call for bids for such
advertising pursuant to specifications which shall first be ap-
proved by the council, and shall award any and all such con-
tracts to the lowest responsible bidder; provided, that the
council may reject all bids and may again call for bids; and
provided further, that no defect or irregularity in proceedings
taken under this section shall invalidate any publication when
the same is otherwise in conformity to law or this Charter."
   That at the Special Municipal Election, Charter Amend-
ment No. 2 was ratified by a majority of the electors of the
City voting thereon.
   That Charter Amendment No. 2 so ratified by the electors
of the City of Glendale is in words and figures as follows:

                  Charter Amendment No. 2
   Section 6 of Article VI of the Charter of the City of Glen-
dale is amended to read:
  "(Article VI) Section 6. Ordinances generally. The en-
acting clause of every ordinance passed by the council shall
be: 'Be it ordained by the Council of the City of Glendale.'
The enacting clause of every ordinance initiated by the people
shall b e : 'Be it ordained by the people of the City of Glen-
dale.' At least five days must elapse between the introduction
and the final passage of any ordinance; provided, that amend-
ment germane to the subject of any proposed ordinance may
be made when it is brought up for final passage; and provided
further, that in case of an extraordinary epedemic or any dis-
aster, such as flood, fire or earthquake, requiring immediate
3660              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. Ch. 108

action on the part of any public authorities, an emergency
ordinance may be introduced and passed at either a regular
or special meeting without any intervention of time between
introduction and final passage. A final vote on any ordinance
or any vote on any appropriation must be taken only at a reg-
ular or adjourned regular meeting. Every ordinance must be
signed by the mayor and attested by the clerk. Notice thereof
shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation.
Any ordinance granting any franchise or privilege shall be
published at the expense of the applicant therefor.
   In the publication of every ordinance the advertisement
shall contain a statement of the title, number and date of the
ordinance, a brief statement of the nature of the ordinance,
and a reference to a copy of the ordinance which shall be on
file and available for public inspection at all reasonable times
in the office of the city clerk.''
   That at the Special Municipal Election, Charter Amend-
ment No. 3 was ratified by a majority of the electors of the
City voting thereon.
    That Charter Amendment No. 3 so ratified by the electors
of the City of Glendale is in words and figures as follows:

                  Charter Amendment No. 3
   Section 6 of Article X X I V of the Charter of the City of
Glendale is amended to read:
   ' ' (Article XXIV) Section 6. Preferences. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent or modify the giving of preferences in
appointments in the classified service to veterans, widows of
veterans, and wives of disabled veterans as such persons may
be defined and such preferences now or hereafter may be
authorized by the council.''
   We further certify that we have compared the text of each
of the foregoing Charter Amendments with the original pro-
posals submitting the same to the electors of the City and find
that the foregoing is a full, true, correct and exact copy of
each of said original proposals. That as to said Charter
Amendments, this certificate shall be taken as a full and com-
plete certification of the regularity of all proceedings had and
done in connection therewith.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
have caused the corporate seal of the City of Glendale to be
affixed hereto, this 7th day of April, 1969.

                        K E N N E T H E. STEPHENS
  (SEAL)                  Mayor of the City of Glendale
                        J O H N H. "WALTERS
                          City Clerk of the City of Glendale
and
  WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as herein above set forth, have been and
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 1091               REGULAR SESSION                   3661

now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; nows
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendments to the Charter of the City of Glendale,
County of Los Angeles, as proposed to, and adopted and
ratified by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set
forth, are hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or
amendment, for and as amendments to, and as part of, the
Charter of the City ot Glendale, County of Los Angeles.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 109
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 88—Relative
                to Soil Stewardship Week.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Ladies' Auxiliary of the California Associa-
tion of Soil Conservation Districts has been appointed by
that organization to publicize and encourage the observance
of Soil Stewardship Week; and
   WHEREAS, Many soil conservation districts throughout the
state purchase and distribute Soil Stewardship Week mate-
rial ; and
   WHEREAS, The officers and members of the ladies' auxil-
iary, as well as the officers and directors of the various soil
conservation districts, are vitally interested in the preserva-
tion of our abundant natural resources; and
   WHEREAS, I t is more important than ever before in the his-
tory of man to recognize man's responsibility to protect and
use wisely the precious gifts of soil, water and all our natural
resources; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That it is altogether fitting that we
should set aside a week when we express unto God our grati-
tude for His blessings upon our land and our willingness to
be faithful to our stewardship; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Legislature respectfully requests the
Governor to declare the week of May 11 to 18, 1969, as Soil
Stewardship Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Governor of California.
3662                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ReS. Ch. 110

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 110
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 89—Relative
            to National Insurance Women's Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, The National Association of Insurance "Women
is the largest single professional women's group in the United
States, with membership totaling approximately 14,000; and
   "WHEREAS, The National Association of Insurance "Women
has made significant contributions to a vital segment of the
economy of California and the nation; and
   "WHEREAS, The members of the association hold prominent
and responsible positions in the business community; and
   "WHEREAS, In addition to the advancements and achieve-
ments of this group of professional women, the members of
the National Association of Insurance "Women are also to be
congratulated on their participation in educational projects
on local, state, and national levels; and
   WHEREAS, This is exemplified by the members in California
who have so generously given of their time and abilities to
work with the USO, the muscular dystrophy auctions, safety
councils throughout the State of California, and driver im-
provement courses; and
   WHEREAS, This dual role in the business world and in the
community is worthy of highest praise; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
National Association of Insurance Women and request the
Governor to proclaim the week of May 18, 1969, through May
24, 1969, as National Insurance Women's Week; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 111
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 90—Relative
         to Future Business Leaders of America Week.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The future economic growth of our nation will
depend in large measure on those who will be our business
leaders in years to come; and
   WHEREAS, The Future Business Leaders of America is an
organization created by the United Business Education As-
sociation to serve young adults majoring in business educa-
tion courses in high schools and colleges throughout the United
States; and
                      1969
Res. Ch. 112]                REGULAR SESSION                  3663
   WHEREAS, The Future Business Leaders of America is fi-
nanced entirely by the student members, who realize that
their interest in their own future will serve also to influence
their country's future; and
   WHEREAS, During the week of April 21 to 27, 1969, the
nearly 150 high school chapters throughout California will
be carrying on special programs of community service; and
  WHEREAS, On April 25, nearly 600 young delegates will
convene in Sacramento for the 20th annual state convention
of the Future Business Leaders of America; now, therefore,
be it
  'Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to issue a proclamation declaring the week of April
21 to 27, 1969, as Future Business Leaders of America Week;
and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                KESOLUTION CHAPTER 112
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 94—Relative to commend-
  ing the California Farm Bureau Federation on its golden
  anniversary.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.3

   WHEREAS, The California F a r m Bureau Federation is com-
memorating its golden anniversary as the organizational tool
through which the farmers have worked to improve their farm-
ing methods and conditions, to reduce their costs, and to im-
prove their marketing capability; and
   WHEREAS, The Farm Bureau was organized in November
1919, to coordinate the efforts of 32 county farm bureaus with
a then combined membership of 24,168 which had been formed
to be the channels through which county farm advisers and
extension specialists of the University of California would
work in bringing to the individual farm operator and his fam-
ily the latest in agricultural research; and
   WHEREAS, The Farm Bureau did not merely confine itself
to educational activities, but helped to form many marketing
cooperatives and organizations to aid the farmer to obtain a
fair market price for his products and was instrumental in
obtaining the enactment of the California Marketing Act in
1937 under which the State Marketing Orders are operated;
and
   WHEREAS, Its enlightened attitude led to the develop-
ment of many programs, which were subsequently enacted,
aimed at the eradication of disease, establishing sanitary con-
ditions for the production of milk, setting up of meat inspec-
3664                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Ch. 113

tion practices, and setting quality standards for many com-
modities ; and
   WHEREAS, Largely through its efforts, water studies were
continued in the 1920's and finally became the Statewide
Water Plan in 1930 and the enactment of the Central Valley
Project Act of 1933 which authorized the construction of the
CVP, and in 1958 it formed the Inter-Organization Water
Committee to solidify support for the Burns-Porter Bond Act
which was approved by the voters in 1960 to finance the con-
struction of the State Water Project; and
   WHEREAS, TO preserve the prime agricultural land of this
state, the Farm Bureau led the battle to obtain the enactment
of the California Land Conservation Act of 1965, which pro-
vides for assessing agricultural land on the basis of other than
market value, and the adoption of the Open Space Amend-
ment authorizing the Legislature to define open space and de-
vise a method of assessing such lands on the basis of other
than full cash value; and
   WHEREAS, Realizing that the future of agriculture lies in
the hands of our youth, the Farm Bureau in 1967 reorga-
nized the Young People's Department, which was created in
1947, into a Committee of California Young Farmers and
Ranchers and in 1953 established the California Farm Bureau
Scholarship Foundation, which has granted five scholarships
annually since 1954; and
   WHEREAS, Cognizance of the importance of agriculture to
the developing nations of the world, the Farm Bureau formed
the Cal-Farm Travel Service in 1955 to arrange "farmer-to-
farmer" tours throughout the world and has sponsored sev-
eral trainee programs for young farmers, including the Young
Visiting Japanese Farmers Trainee Program, from Europe,
Latin America, Asia, and the Near East; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
California Farm Bureau Federation on its golden anniversary
for distinguished service, symbolizing "Progress in the Past—•
Promise for the F u t u r e , ' ' rendered to the farmers, to the state,
and to the nation; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a suitably prepared copy of this resolution to the California
Farm Bureau Federation.

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 113
             Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 99—
                Relative to Beta Sigma Phi Week.
              [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Beta Sigma Phi, an international sorority of
lovely women, works not only for the cultural betterment of
                         1969
Res. Ch. 114]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3665

its members but for the betterment of the communities in
which chapters of this great sorority are located; and
   WHEREAS, Since its founding on April 30, 1931, by Wal-
ter W. Eoss, the fine women of Beta Sigma Phi have never
failed to make their contributions to the improvement of our
communities and our state and nation; and
   WHEREAS, It is indeed fitting that a week be set aside to
direct public attention to the many accomplishments of Beta
Sigma P h i ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend Beta
Sigma Phi for its many valuable contributions to the people
of this state; and be it further
   Resolved, That the members request the Governor to pro-
claim the week of April 27-May 4, 1969, as Beta Sigma Phi
Week in recognition of this sorority's many achievements; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 114
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 112—Relative to request-
  ing the Governor to proclaim April 21, 1969, as "Employee
  Suggestion Day in California."
                [Filed with Secretary of State April 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The National Association of Suggestion Systems
is a nonprofit, service organization composed of members from
finance, commerce, industry, and government and dedicated
to the worth, contributions, and benefits of employee sugges-
tion systems; and
   WHEREAS, N.A.S.S. has members with over 8 million em-
ployees who contributed over 3 million suggestions in 1967
and received over 34 million dollars in awards from their
employers; and
   WHEREAS, The Southern California Chapter of the National
Association of Suggestion Systems has been a vital force in
the suggestion plan movement since 1949 and receives great
benefit from the vast resources, knowledge, and support of
N.A.S.S.; and
   WHEREAS, The Southern California Chapter of N.A.S.S.
has almost 100 of the area's largest and most successful pri-
vate and public corporations as members and provides them
with invaluable assistance in setting up and coordinating em-
ployee suggestion plans; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Members of the Legis-
lature commend the Southern California Chapter of the Na-
3666                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [^eS. Ch. 115

tional Association of Suggestion Systems for their dedicated
service to greater employee participation in government and
industry; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Members of the Legislature request the
Governor to proclaim April 21, 1969, as "Employee Sugges-
tion Day in California;'' and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor, and a suitably pre-
pared copy to the National Association of Suggestion Systems
and their southern California chapter.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 115
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 55—Relative to
                    Beta Sigma Phi Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 21, 1969.]

  "WHEREAS, Beta Sigma Phi, a 38-year-old international
cultural and service organization consisting of 200,000 mem-
bers in 9,000 chapters in 13 countries, was founded April 30,
1931; and
   WHEREAS, Beta Sigma Phi has 18,000 members in 922
chapters in California; and
  WHEREAS, Beta Sigma Phi yearly contributes a significant
sum of money and time to such various humanitarian projects
as cancer research, cystic fibrosis research, scholarships, and
aid to underdeveloped countries; and
   WHEREAS, Beta Sigma Phi is proud of its status as an
organization composed of women of various ages, nationalities,
vocations and geographical areas, all dedicated to the prin-
ciple of "Life, Learning, and Friendship" for which Beta
Sigma Phi stands; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
members of Beta Sigma Phi and request the Governor to
proclaim the week of April 27, 1969, through May 3, 1969,
as Beta Sigma Phi Week; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 116
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 68—Relative to
                       Law Day, U.S.A.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 21, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members of the
Senate and the Assembly that the theme for Law Day, U.S.A.,
                      1969
Res. Ch. 117]                REGULAR SESSION                  3667
 to be observed on May 1, 1969, will be Justice and Equality
 Depend Upon Law and You; and
    WHEREAS, Every good citizen recognizes that representative
 government depends for its vitality and strength upon citizen
 participation in its processes and the broader the participation
 the more effective and just the government will be; and
    WHEREAS, Every citizen has a responsibility to his country,
 state, and local community to observe the laws, to support the
 law enforcement agencies and the courts, to recognize the
 rights of others, and to assist in advancing the equality of
 justice and opportunity for all Americans; and
    WHEREAS, Our form of government, which has protected our
nation for over 190 years, requires that the right of dissent
 and the right to petition for redress of grievances be asserted
 in a lawful manner, since in a free society the end to be
sought, however worthy, can never justify unlawful means;
and
   WHEREAS, It is appropriate that on this special day, which
was set aside by joint resolution of Congress and by presiden-
tial proclamation, we should reaffirm our faith in the will of
law and in the supremacy of government by law rather than
by men; and
   WHEREAS, The members commend the organized bar for its
vigorous programs and educational activities which emphasize
the importance of law in our society and for its efforts in
promoting the observance of Law Day throughout the nation;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Governor of the State of Cali-
fornia is respectfully requested to proclaim Thursday, May 1,
1969, as Law Day, U.S.A., throughout this state, and to call
upon all the citizens to join in its observance through appro-
priate ceremonies, programs and educational activities, and
through a rededication to the ideals of equality and justice for
all; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Honorable Ronald Reagan, Governor
of the State of California, and suitably prepared copies to
William T. Gossett, President of the American Bar Associa-
tion, and Samuel 0 . Pruitt, Jr., President of the State Bar of
California.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 117
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 84—Relative
           to the retirement of William A. Kerlin.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 22, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, William A. Kerlin, Chief of the California De-
partment of Agriculture's Bureau of Weights and Measures
3668               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. Ch. 118

since 1960, will retire on May 1st after more than 37 years
of dedicated service to the people of the State of California;
and
   WHEREAS, A pioneer in the use of statistical sampling tech-
niques in state inspection and enforcement activities, Mr. Ker-
lin has administered a bureau responsible for enforcing Cali-
fornia weights and measures laws, including the supervision
of the 58 county sealers of weights and measures; and
   WHEREAS, In 1960 Mr. Kerlin played the key role in writ-
ing the California statute which first established a statisti-
cally valid sampling technique to be used in enforcing weights
and measures laws, which has since served as a model for
many other agencies around the country; and
   WHEREAS, A native of Hastings, Nebraska, Mr. Kerlin came
to California in 1916 and after attending San Jose State Col-
lege, he became a surveyor in the Santa Clara County Engi-
neer's office and then deputy county sealer, a post he held for
nine years; and
   WHEREAS, After qualifying by competitive examination, he
was appointed Alameda County Sealer of Weights and Meas-
ures and 14 years later, he joined the California Department
of Agriculture as Chief of the Bureau of Weights and Meas-
ures ; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Kerlin is presently chairman of the Laws
and Regulations Committee, National Conference on Weights
and Measures; a member of the Special Weights and Measures
Committee of the Federal Trade Commission; and a member
of the Special Weights and Measures Committee of the Fed-
eral Food and Drug Administration; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend Wil-
liam A. Kerlin for his many years of dedicated public serv-
ice and wish him happiness and success in his future endeav-
ors ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a suitably prepared copy of this resolution to William A.
Kerlin.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 118
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 146—Approving               an
  amendment to the Charter of the City of Pomona, County
  of Los Angeles, State of California, ratified by the qualified
  electors of the city at a regular general election held therein
  on the eighth day of April, 1969.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 23, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of an amendment to the
Charter of the City of Pomona, a municipal corporation in
                    1969
Res. Ch. 1181              REGULAR SESSION                 3669

the County of Los Angeles, State of California, as hereinafter
set forth in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the
city, as follows:

CERTIFICATE OF PROCEEDINGS HAD AND TAKEN BY THE CITY OP
  POMONA IN FRAMING A CHARTER AMENDMENT FOR ITS O W N
  GOVERNMENT

State of California   ]
County of Los Angeles J- ss.
City of Pomona        J

   We, the undersigned Kichard C. Brownell, Mayor of the
City of Pomona, County of Los Angeles, State of California,
and L. B. Thomas, Clerk of said city, do hereby certify and
declare as follows:
   That the City of Pomona now is and at all times herein
mentioned was a city containing a population of over 50,000
inhabitants, as ascertained by the last preceding census taken
under the authority of the Congress of the United States; that
the Council of said city did, on its own motion, cause to be
framed a proposed amendment to the Charter of the City of
Pomona, and on February 10, 1969, said proposed charter
amendment was filed in the Office of the City Clerk of said
city; that at a regular meeting held February 10, 1969, said
Council, by ordinance duly adopted, called a regular general
election to be held in said city for the purpose of submitting to
the qualified electors of said city a proposal for the adoption
of said proposed charter amendment; that by order of said
Council said election was held on April 8, 1969.
   That said proposed charter amendment was published in
The Progress Bulletin, the official newspaper of said city and
a newspaper of general circulation printed and published in
said city, on February 14, 1969, and in each edition thereof
during the day of publication; that said date of publication was
within 15 days after said proposed charter amendment was
filed with the City Clerk and said election was held not less
than 40 nor more than 60 days after the completion of said
advertising in said official newspaper;
   That beginning with the date of said publication of the pro-
posed charter amendment and continuing until the day fixed
for said election, a notice was published and advertised in said
 The Progress Bulletin that copies of said proposed charter
 amendment may be had upon application therefor at the office
 of the City Clerk of said city; that such copies were so avail-
 able ; that copies of said proposed charter were printed in con-
 venient pamphlet form and in type of not less than 10-point
 and copies thereof were mailed to each of the qualified electors
 of said city;
    That said election was duly called, notices thereof were duly
 given, and said election was duly held and conducted at the
3670               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 118

time and in the form and manner required by the existing
charter of said city and by law on April 8, 1969; that the fol-
lowing said election returns of said election were duly can-
vassed as provided by law and the results of said canvass were
certified to said Council and said Council thereupon, by resolu-
tion, entered into its minutes, declared the results of the
canvass of the returns of said election, and found, determined
and declared that a majority of the qualified voters voting
upon said proposed charter amendment at said election voted
in favor of such proposed charter amendment and that said
charter amendment shall be deemed ratified and shall be sub-
mitted to the Legislature at its present session; that the re-
sults as so declared show that at said election 6,526 votes were
cast in favor of the adoption of said charter amendment, and
4,515 votes were cast against such adoption;
   That in connection with the submission, approval and rati-
fication of said charter amendment, all of the provisions of
Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of Cali-
fornia, of the laws of said State and of the existing charter of
said city have been fully complied with in each and every par-
ticular; and said proposed amendment to the charter of the
City of Pomona proposed to the electors of the City of Pomona
at said election, which was approved by the electors, was that
Section 1002 of said charter be amended to provide as fol-
lows : '' For the election of elective officers under this Charter,
and for such other purposes as the Council may prescribe, a
general municipal election shall be held in the City on the third
Tuesday of April in each odd-numbered year''.

   We further certify that we have compared the foregoing
with the proposed charter amendment filed and submitted as
aforesaid and find that the foregoing is a full, true and correct
copy of said charter amendment ratified by the electors of said
eity as aforesaid.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of Pomona to be affixed hereto on
this 15th day of April, 1969.

                              ElCHARD C. BROWNELL,
  (SEAL)                      Mayor of the City of Pomona

  L. B. THOMAS,
  City Clerk

Approved as to form:
  ROBERT C. GUSTAVESON,
  City Attorney

and
  WHEREAS, The proposed amendment to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, has been and
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 120]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3671
now is duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of Arti-
cle X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of Pomona,
County of Los Angeles, as proposed to, and adopted and rati-
fied by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth,
is hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or amend-
ment, for and as an amendment to, and as part of, the Charter
of the City of Pomona, County of Los Angeles.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 119
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 63—Relative to the Joint
          Committee on Legislative  Organization.
                [Piled with Secretary of State April 23, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Joint Committee on Legis-
lative Organization study the feasibility of providing that
bills introduced in a regular session in an odd-numbered year
and not disposed of at that session may be deemed pending be-
fore the Legislature during the regular session in the following
even-numbered year.

                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 120
       Senate Joint Resolution No. 8—Relative to school
                    district appropriations.
                [Piled with Secretary of State April 24, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Congress of the United States of America
has appropriated $505.9 million for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1969, for payments to school districts under the
provisions of Public Law 81-874, estimated to be sufficient
to meet 90 percent of the requirements under the law; and
   WHEREAS, Federal administrative decisions have determined
that only 35 percent of the requirement will be released dur-
ing the fiscal year ending June 30, 1969, to eligible school
districts; and
   WHEREAS, This administrative decision affects adversely
some 438 California school districts, in which in excess of
400,000 eligible pupils reside; and
   WHEREAS, The withholding of these funds will adversely
affect the educational program for more than three million
3672               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  i JJgg QJj# J 2 1

children who attend school in these districts eligible for
funds under Public Law 81-874; and
   WHEREAS, The administrative decisions made will result
in reduction in school support from Public Law 81-874 in
excess of $50 million during the fiscal year; and
   WHEREAS, Under the provisions of Public Law 81-874, the
federal government since 1951 has participated as a local
property taxpayer in school districts impacted with students
of parents employed on federal property which is not sub-
ject to local property taxation; and
   WHEREAS, Such federal participation under full provisions
of the law does not meet the added costs of education caused
by federal activities; and
   WHEREAS, The withholding of these funds by administra-
tive decision is not in accordance with the intent of the
Congress as expressed in Public Law 81-874 and in Section
406 of Title III of Public Law 90-576; and
   WHEREAS, The withholding of these funds will have an
irreparable adverse effect on the majority of school children
in California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia respectfully memorializes the President of the United
States, the Director of the Bureau of the Budget and the
 Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and other in-
volved federal officials to review the existing administrative
decision and to provide for release to eligible school districts
during the 1969 fiscal year the full appropriation authorized
by Congress for that year; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President of the United States, the
 Director of the Bureau of the Budget, the Secretary of
Health, Education and Welfare, and to each member of the
California Delegation in Congress.


               EESOLUTION CHAPTER 121
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 51—Relative to
                commending John G. Veneman.
             [Filed with Secretary of State April 25, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, President Richard M. Nixon has announced the
nomination of Assemblyman John G. Veneman as Undersec-
retary of Health, Education and Welfare; and
  WHEREAS, Assemblyman Veneman, a third-generation resi-
dent of Stanislaus County, commenced his career in public
service in 1958 when he was elected to the Stanislaus County
Board of Supervisors and he became chairman of the board of
supervisors in 1960; and
                         1969
Res. Ch. 122]                   REGTXLAK SESSION                    3673

   WHEEEAS, He was first elected to the Assembly of the State
of California on January 23, 1962, and has been reelected
continuously since that time to represent the 30th Assembly
District, and while in the Assembly he has served as the Chair-
man of the Eevenue and Taxation Committee, Chairman of
the Joint Committee on Medi-Cal, and as the legislative mem-
ber of the State Social Welfare Board; and
   WHEEEAS, A S a Member of the Legislature, he was instru-
mental in developing California's 1967 tax package, has au-
thored and developed legislation designed to detect and pre-
vent child neglect and coauthored legislation which established
a pioneering program for job development and training, and
he was a key figure in bringing property tax relief to Cali-
fornians; and
   WHEEEAS, He has conscientiously served the people of his
Assembly district and the people of California with independ-
ence of thought and action, integrity and foresight, and has
significantly contributed to the well-being of the citizens of
California in the areas of health, welfare, and taxation; and
   WHEEEAS, John Veneman's calm presence and invaluable
contributions to the legislative process will be sorely missed
by his colleagues; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend John
G. Veneman for his distinguished and meritorious service to
the people of the State of California and wish him every suc-
cess as the Undersecretary of Health, Education and Welfare;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the members commend President Richard M.
Nixon and Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare Eob-
ert H. Finch, for placing the development of our nation's
public policies in the vital areas of health, education, and wel-
fare in such capable hands; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to Assemblyman
John G. Veneman, President Richard M. Nixon, and Secretary
of Health, Education and Welfare Robert H. Finch.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 122
Assembly    Concurrent Resolution No. 134—Relative                to pro-
           claiming April as Welded Products Month.
                [Filed with Secretary of State April 25, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, Our daily life and standard of living are improved
by the efficiency and reliability of welded land, air and sea
transport equipment which carries us and our needs swiftly
and safely; and
3674              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ReS. Ch. 123

   WHEREAS, The household tasks of the California family are
speeded and lightened by the welded stoves, refrigerators and
many other household appliances; and
   WHEREAS, California industry depends upon welded ma-
chinery and equipment, and is powered by the giant boilers
and generators that could not be built except by welding; and
   WHEREAS, Our freedom and that of the free world is guarded
by aircraft, tanks, missiles and men-of-war in whose construc-
tion welding makes a vital contribution; and
   WHEREAS, Welding technology and welding inventiveness
have ably demonstrated their vital importance as the only
means of fabricating nuclear and space age components; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members do request the
Governor to proclaim the month of April Welded Products
Month in recognition of the many Calif ornians engaged in the
art and science of welding, producing welded products for the
health, safety, and welfare of all Americans; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 123
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 75—Relative to
          "Livermore Centennial Celebration Day."
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members that
the City of Livermore will, on October 11, 1969, observe
"Livermore Centennial Celebration D a y " ; and
   WHEREAS, One hundred years ago the first subdivision of
land took place in the Livermore community; and
   WHEREAS, The Livermore Valley was first explored and de-
scribed in 1772 by a party of Spaniards, although it was not
until Mission San Jose was established in 1797 that the valley
began to be used for agriculture, when it was a grazing ground
for the mission cattle and was known as the Valle de San
Jose, with its only inhabitants the native Indian tribes; and
   WHEREAS, The valley was the natural route for Indians, or
anyone else, who wanted to travel toward the coast from
California's central valley and, consequently, it was used by
Indians going to the mission along the coast and by the
soldiers who set out to find and punish the Indians; and
   WHEREAS, With the discovery of gold in California, the
traffic increased in the 1850's, new routes through the valley
were developed, there were surveys for railroads, and in gen-
eral much activity; and
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 124]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3675
   WHEREAS, A settlement named Laddsville developed on the
route chosen for the first railroad through the valley, but by
 the time the first train went through, in 1869, William Men-
 denhall had laid out a new town and named it for the pioneer
Robert Livermore; and
   WHEREAS, The economy of the Livermore Valley was pas-
toral and agricultural; cattle, sheep and horses have always
been important products, as well as hay and grain, and later
on, grapes and wine, truck crops, and roses; animal products,
agricultural products, and a variety of mineral products from
the mines in the hills south of town furnished cargo for the
 railroads, and flour mills and warehouses, to store hay, grain,
 and other products from the ranches, were prominent early
businesses; and
   WHEREAS, A S with most towns, gradual changes in economy
and progress have taken place over the years, some significant
events which influenced the changing pattern being: the de-
velopment of gravel industry, the extension through the valley
by the San Francisco Water Department of the Hetch Hetchy
water and powerlines, the military installations during
World War II, and the State Water Project, with the recent
construction of the South Bay Aqueduct and the Del Valle
Dam; and
   WHEREAS, In the last decade and a half, the establishment
of several atomic energy installations in the area has brought
about a radical change in the economy, culture, population,
and entire character of Livermore and the surrounding area,
which change has been accompanied by a burgeoning popula-
tion which has turned Livermore from a small rural town,
agricultural in nature, to a small city with an industrial out-
look, with the prospect of more rapid growth and change in
the future; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members express their
heartiest congratulations to the City of Livermore upon its
centennial celebration and request the Governor to proclaim
October 11,1969, as "Livermore Centennial Celebration D a y " ;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Goyernor and a suitably prepared
copy to the City of Livermore.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 124
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 76—Relative
                   to Goodwill Industries.
                [Filed with Secretary of State April 25, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The week of May 4 through 10, 1969, has been
designated National Goodwill Week in recognition of the out-
3676              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 125

standing humanitarian achievements made by Goodwill In-
dustries ; and
   WHEREAS, Goodwill Industries had its beginning in 1902,
when the Reverend Edgar Helms, recognizing a source of dig-
nified employment for the handicapped, asked his neighbors
for donations of repairable household articles and clothing
which could be repaired and sold, thereby providing work and
income for the needy and handicapped; and
   WHEREAS, Vocational rehabilitation of the seriously handi-
capped was the initial goal and Goodwill Industries has since
expanded its activities to encompass the mentally ill and men-
tally retarded in order that these people may live productive
and fulfilling lives; and
   WHEREAS, A S a result of the outstanding efforts of the 11
autonomous Goodwills in the State of California, more than
7,370 handicapped persons have been helped and have re-
ceived $6,493,748 in wages; and
   WHEREAS, Goodwill Industries is a continuing tribute to
the initiative of private groups that provide a source of work
and income for persons who otherwise would be dependent
upon public assistance; and
   WHEREAS, The program of Goodwill Industries, based on the
dignity of man, gives self-respect to the handicapped worker;
now, therefore, be it
  Resolved ~by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members wish to take this
opportunity to commend the national organization and the
California Goodwill Industries on their outstanding job in
serving the handicapped; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Governor of the State of California is
requested to proclaim the week of May 4 through May 10,
1969, National Goodwill Week, in California; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Honorable Ronald Reagan, Governor
of the State of California, and suitably prepared copies to
Russell Gwynn, Chairman of the Council of California Good-
wills, and Robert G. Depner, Executive Director of Goodwill
Industries of Central California.


              RESOLUTION CHAPTER 125
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 90—Relative
                to "Correct Posture Week."
           [Filed with Secretary of State April 25, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The chiropractic profession of America has
designated the week of May 5th through May 11th as "Cor-
rect Posture W e e k " ; and
                     l969
Res. Ch. 1271               REOTJLAK SESSION                  367?

   "WHEREAS, Doctors of chiropractic in thousands of communi-
ties throughout the United States and Canada will observe
that week; and
   "WHERBAS, The California Chiropractic Association is spon-
soring "Correct Posture W e e k " in this state in an effort to
educate the public to the value of correct posture and to de-
velop a national consciousness of correct posture, which, espe-
cially when developed in young people, is one of the greatest
contributing factors to better health, physical endurance,
working efficiency, and attractive appearance; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the
Governor to proclaim the week of May 5th through May 11th
as "Correct Posture Week"; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy to the California Chiropractic Association.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 126
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 96—Relative to proclaiming
              April 27 as California Coin Day.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The week of April 21 to 27, 1969, will be cele-
brated as National Coin Week; and
  WHEREAS, April 27, 1969, will be the date of the Sixth
Annual Coin Fair of the San Francisco Coin Club; and
  WHEREAS, The San Francisco Coin Club is the nexus of an
increasingly popular avocation of thousands of Californians;
now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the
Governor to proclaim April 27, 1969, as California Coin Day
and urge all citizens to participate in this event; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy of this resolution to Mr. Torres Weir, member of the
board of governors, San Francisco Coin Club.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 127
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 104—Relative to proclaiming
  April 26, 1969, "General Douglas MacArthur Day" in Cali-
  fornia.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 25, 1969.]
3678              STATUTES OP CALIFOKNIA                  [ReS. Ch. 128

   WHEREAS, The death of General Douglas MacArthur on
April 5, 1964, left the people of the free world with a pro-
found sense of sadness and deep loss; and
   WHEREAS, A dynamic and ingenious military leader of vast
wisdom and unusual foresight, Douglas MacArthur has been
ranked by many historians as one of the world's greatest
figures; and
   WHEREAS, The honor bestowed on him is richly deserved for
few men through the centuries have given so much to preserve
democracy and the dignity of man; and
   WHEREAS, Californians and free men everywhere respect the
memory of the "Old Soldier" whose passing they have deeply
mourned; and
   WHEREAS, The Bataan-Corregidor Society of America, orga-
nized and founded on the concept of liberty and democracy,
and dedicated to the cause of patriotism and good American
citizenship, and to the cause for which thousands of Americans
and Filipinos valiantly fought and gave their lives, is com-
posed of Americans, Filipino-Americans, and all veterans who
fought under General Douglas MacArthur, irrespective of
creed or nationality, and bound together by an uncommon
bond of friendship; and
   WHEREAS, The Society is observing the fifth anniversary of
the death of General Douglas MacArthur and the 27th anni-
versary of the fall of Bataan-Corregidor with a memorial
dinner and pageant, with a flower and candlelighting ceremony
on April 26, 1969, in San Francisco; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
issue a proclamation designating April 26, 1969, as "General
Douglas MacArthur D a y " in California, and invite all the
people of California to honor on this day the memory of
General Douglas MacArthur and those who fell at Bataan and
Corregidor; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor, and suitably prepared
copies of this resolution to the Bataan-Corregidor Society of
America and to its president, Mrs. Margaret Krsak-Koesen, to
Mrs. Douglas MacArthur, and to President Ferdinand Marcos
of the Republic of the Philippines.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 128
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 103—Relative to con-
  tinuance of the Joint Committee on Bay Area Regional
  Organization.
            [Filed with Secretary of State April 29, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Joint Committee on Bay
                         1969
Res. Ch. 129]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3679

Area Regional Organization created by Resolution Chapter
144 (S.C.R. 41) of the Statutes of 1967 is continued in exist-
ence, with authority to act during this session of the Legisla-
ture, including any recess, until final adjournment.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 129
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 135—Relative to pro-
  claiming April 21-26, 1969, as Discover America Vacation
  Planning Time.
                [Filed with Secretary of State April 29, 1969.]

   WHEBEAS, The discovery of America was begun many cen-
turies ago, yet it is not ended, but rather, it is a continuous
process shared each year by more and more Americans dis-
covering anew our nation's bountiful store of natural and
cultural treasures; and
   WHEREAS, Our land abounds in recreational opportunities,
a land of lakes and streams, of forests and mountains, of
desert and sand and sea, where visitor and citizen alike find
infinite variety in rest and play; and
   WHEREAS, The birth of our nation lies in our historical
landmarks still preserved, for all once again to feel the pangs
of a nation growing, carved out of nature's wilderness not so
many years ago; and
   WHEREAS, The year expects millions of our fellow citizens to
embark on the journey of rediscovery, to relive our nation's
history, to enjoy once more that respite from the year's en-
deavors, to relax in the natural wealth, the scenic beauty of
our land; and
   WHEREAS, California, always a state of great attraction to
our fellow citizens of the many states, will once again, doubt-
less, play host to more than its share of travelers, for California
has more than its share of beauty, of forest, of mountain, of
sand and sea; and
   WHEREAS, Each year vacationing visitors from all over the
world bring new wealth to our state, so it is most appropriate
that a period of time be set aside in which attention can be
focused on the benefits of travel to all; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim April 21-26 Discover America Vacation
Planning Time and do urge all our citizens, business, indus-
tries, our cities, and our civic organizations to give this observ-
ance their wholehearted support; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor, and a suitably pre-
pared copy to Robert J. Murphy, Jr., Cochairman, Discover
America Travel Organizations, Inc.

   116—1954
3680                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  pjgg. Q^ 1 3 0

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 130
   Assembly     Concurrent Resolution No. 139—Relative              to
                 Fire Service Recognition Day.
              [Filed with Secretary of State April 29, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The fire service of our state performs many pub-
lic services in addition to the suppression of fires, such as
dwelling inspections, prefire planning, and inspection of com-
mercial and industrial facilities, hospitals, schools and rest
homes; and
   "WHEREAS, Today's fireman is a technically trained and
highly skilled professional public servant; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to issue a proclamation designating May 10, 1969, as
" F i r e Service Recognition D a y , " and to urge all citizens to
visit their nearest fire station on this date to become acquainted
with their men, their apparatus and equipment, and the pro-
fessional type of service they provide today as contrasted with
yesteryear; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 131
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 142—•
               Relative to National Raisin Week.
              [Filed with Secretary of Stat© April 30, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Raisins are one of the most important farm prod-
ucts in the economy of California; and
   WHEREAS, Despite increased competition from foreign rai-
sins and from the multitude of competing foods produced in
this country, the California Raisin Advisory Board, the raisin
industry's promotion, advertising, and research arm, has main-
tained the market position of California raisins; and
   WHEREAS, The California Raisin Advisory Board's most
notable success story is the development of the Japanese mar-
ket from a practically nonexistent market to the number one
export market, which now consumes some 20,000 tons of Cali-
fornia raisins a year; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of April 20 through April 26 as
National Raisin Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.
                         1969
Ees   Ch. 1331                  REGULAR SESSION                 3681

                   BESOLUTION CHAPTER 132
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 91—Relative to declaring
        the week of May 4-10,1969, as Quality Week.
                 [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, The progress of today's science, technology and
research has been directly improved by the principles of qual-
ity control, and it is fitting that we give appropriate recogni-
tion to the impact of quality and its benefits to our society;
and
   WHEREAS, Technical advancement and the greater abundance
of economic goods and services are closely related, and quality
has been a prime factor in upgrading countless consumer
goods; and
   WHEREAS, The strict requirements of the government and
numerous scientific innovations developed for national security
have called for increased emphasis on quality and optimum
dependability of present-day products despite rising demands
for high performance and greater complexity; and
   WHEREAS, This state recognizes with praise the close rela-
tionship between the quality objectives of product excellence
and the continuing high standards of our nation's industrial
skills and technology, and notes with pride the assembly of
an international convention of men and women concerned with
quality on May 5, 6, and 7, 1969, in the City of Los Angeles;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved hy the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Members respectfully re-
quest the Governor to proclaim the week of May 4^-10, 1969,
as Quality Week in California, and urge all citizens of the
state to take cognizance of this event and to appropriately par-
ticipate in the support of its observance; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 133
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 101—Relative        to the
  California Association of "Vocational Industrial Clubs of
  America.
                 [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The California Association of Vocational Indus-
trial Clabs of America, a coeducational youth organization, is
playing a significant role in assuring the future progress and
prosperity of our communities, state, and nation; and
   WHEREAS, Enrollment in industrial education programs in
California is now over one million students, making California
the national leader in this area of education; and
3682              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                    [ReS. Ch. 134

   "WHEREAS, It is vital to our continued well-being that we
train skilled industrial manpower to meet the needs of business,
industry, management, labor and education; and
   WHEREAS, California industrial education is designed to pre-
pare California's youth and adults to become useful and pro-
ductive citizens in the industry, technical, and health occupa-
tion areas; and
   "WHEREAS, The California Association of Vocational Indus-
trial Clubs of America solidifies, strengthens, and supports the
role of California industrial education programs; and
   WHEREAS, The purposes of the California Association of
Vocational Industrial Clubs of America are: to unite all indus-
trial students; to develop leadership abilities; to foster a dig-
nity of work; to attain a purposeful life by establishing real-
istic vocational goals; to promote high standards in work and
education to better serve home, school, and community; to
appreciate the relationships between all community groups;
to thoroughly understand our democratic foundations; and to
gain recognition for deserving youth; and
   "WHEREAS, The California Association of Vocational Indus-
trial Clubs of America holds its annual leadership training
conference during the first week in May; and
   "WHEREAS, The California Association of Vocational Indus-
trial Clubs of America designates the first week in May as Cali-
fornia Vocational Industrial Clubs of America "Week; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Governor
to proclaim the week of April 28 through May 4 as California
Vocational Industrial Clubs of America "Week; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to tha Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 134
Senate Joint Resolution No. 11—Relative to the                Sacramento
               River Bank Protection Project.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEBEAS, The Sacramento River Bank Protection Project
was authorized by the Flood Control Act of 1960 to provide a
long-range (25 years) program of bank erosion control works
to maintain the integrity of the levee system of the Sacramento
River Flood Control Project so that it can provide the degree
of protection for which it was designed; and
   WHEBEAS, The rains and flooding of the past winter have
caused extensive erosion of riverbank levees; and
                        1969
Res. Ch. 135]                  REGULAR SESSION                 3683

   WHEREAS, The federal appropriations for the Sacramento
River Bank Protection Project, which reached the minimum
required level of 3.5 million dollars during the 1965-1966 fiscal
year, have since dropped to a level of about 1.5 million dollars;
and
   WHEREAS, The present levee funding does not even keep
pace with new erosion, and there is severe danger of a break
in the levee system; and
   WHEREAS, A failure of the levee system could result in
millions of dollars of damages to one of the most productive
agricultural areas in the nation and to the Cities of Sacra-
mento, Marysville, Yuba City, and other communities; and
   WHEREAS, An appropriation of only 2 million dollars is pro-
posed in the budget for the fiscal year 1969-1970, which is
not adequate to keep pace with the present rate of erosion
and will result in a delay of up to two years on all future units
of the project; and
   WHEREAS, The Army Corps of Engineers has indicated that
an annual federal appropriation of $3,500,000 is needed to keep
pace with bank erosion; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to increase the appropriation for construc-
tion funds for the Sacramento River Bank Protection Project
in the President's Budget for the fiscal year 1969-1970 to a
minimum of 3.5 million dollars; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget,
to the Chief of Engineers of the Army Corps of Engineers, to
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to each Sen-
ator and Representative from California in the Congress of
the United States.

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 135
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 105—Relative
            to Classified School Employees' Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The California School Employees' Association, a
41-year-old statewide organization consisting- of over 42,000
members, provides services for approximately 100,000 classified
school employees in over 1,200 school districts in California;
and
   WHEREAS, Chapters of the association yearly contribute a
significant sum of money for undergraduate scholarships and
also promote educational programs for all classified personnel
designed to improve their work skills, to the end that they
may better serve students and teachers; and
3684              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [R es _ Qh. 136

   WHEREAS, The classified employee is proud of his status and
the integral part he plays in the total field of education
throughout the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature is aware of the contribution of
classified employees and the California School Employees'
Association,- now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
California School Employees' Association and request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of May 25, 1969, through May 31,
1969, as Classified School Employees' Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Governor and the State Super-
intendent of Public Instruction.


               KESOLUTION CHAPTEE 136
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 108—Relative
             to Country and Western Music Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Country and western music has made tremendous
contributions to the heritage of this country and has made
many friends for America throughout the world; now, there-
fore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is hereby re-
quested to proclaim the week of September 8th through 14th,
1969, as Country and Western Music Week in California; and
be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


              RESOLUTION CHAPTER 137
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 114—Relative
             to "Veterans of Foreign Wars Week."
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Veterans of Foreign Wars is an organization
formed for patriotic, fraternal, historical and educational pur-
poses; and
   WHEREAS, It preserves and strengthens comradeship among
its members and perpetuates the memory and history of the
war dead and assists their widows and orphans; and
   WHEREAS, The requisite for membership in the Veterans of
Foreign Wars is honorable service as enlisted man or officer
                        1969
Ees. Ch. 138]                  RBGTTLAB SESSION                3685

in the armed forces of the United States of America in any
foreign war, insurrection, or expedition for which service a
campaign medal shall be authorized,- and
  WHEREAS, The Veterans of Foreign "Wars has 65,000 mem-
bers, 510 Posts, and 22 Districts in California; now, therefore,
be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
proclaim the week of June 21st through June 27, 1969, "Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars "Week"; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 138
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 115—Relative
          to Know Your County Government Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The counties of California daily fulfill the needs
of the people by providing public protection, education, streets
and highways, parks and recreation, health and welfare, and
other vital services; and
   WHEREAS, The counties, in carrying out these services, per-
form over 1,000 identifiable functions, spend three and one-
half billion dollars annually, and employ 150,000 persons; and
   WHEREAS, It is in the interest of every Californian that these
basic and traditional local government units remain respon-
sive, modern, and efficient, employing dedicated and capable
public servants; and
   WHEREAS, It is essential that the public be aware of the
structure, functions, and performance of county government;
and
   WHEREAS, Special commemorative periods stimulate citizen
interest in local institutions, and this interest encourages full
citizen participation in government and facilitates better gov-
ernment services to the people; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the week of October 13-17,
1969, be designated as Know Your County Government Week;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Governor of the State of California be
urged to proclaim October 13-17, 1969, as Know Your County
Government Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the citizens and the counties of California
be urged to participate in the appropriate ceremonies, pro-
grams, and educational activities in observance of Know Your
County Government Week; and be it further
3686              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Res.   Ch.   139

  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Honorable Eonald Reagan, Gov-
ernor of the State of California.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 139
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 121—Relative to the
  anniversary of the Cinco de Mayo as Mexican-American
  Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, While the United States was engaged in the
tragic Civil War testing the principle upon which this nation
was founded, that " a l l men are created equal . . . that they
are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights,"
its neighbor, the Republic of Mexico, was invaded by an army
of foreign troops from Europe; and
   WHEREAS, This invading foreign army was met at Guada-
lupe Hill near the City of Puebla on the fifth day of May, 1862,
by an outnumbered and untrained Mexican force, under the
command of Ignacio Zaragoza; and
   WHEREAS, The soldiers of Mexico through their great cour-
age and self-sacrifice defeated this invading force in this great
battle; and
   WHEREAS, This victory stands as an encouragement and a
symbol in the long struggle of Mexico against this foreign in-
vader which eventually culminated in the ousting of a mon-
archy, which was established by these foreign troops, and the
reestablishment of Mexico as a sovereign independent nation;
and
   WHEREAS, Cinco de Mayo has since been celebrated the
world over as a day symbolizing the opposition of free peoples
to foreign domination and the triumph of freedom over oppres-
sion ; and
   WHEREAS, This day is recorded in the annals of history along
with the Fourth of July and Bastille Day as one of the great
days in the advancement of human liberty and self-govern-
ment; and
   WHEREAS, Concerned citizens of Mexican ancestry will be
observing the 107th anniversary of this event and will com-
memorate the triumph at Guadalupe Hill, Cinco de Mayo; and
   WHEREAS, Numerous Mexican-American organizations and
the Spanish-speaking community will sponsor appropriate ob-
servances during the week of Cinco de Mayo; and
   WHEREAS, During this week it will be fitting for all Cali-
fornians to contemplate the historical contributions of Mexican
culture and character to the history of this state which en-
riched and advanced our multiracial culture and to acknowl-
edge the contributions of Mexican-American citizens in areas
                       1969
Res. Ch. 140]                 REGULAR SESSION                  3637

of education, labor, industry, government, and the professions;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the Legislature hereby requests
the Governor to proclaim May 5 through May 11, 1969, as
Mexican-American Week in California and further urges that
the Governor request the California public schools to sponsor
appropriate programs during this week and urge all the people
of this state to take advantage of this opportunity to learn
the role that the Mexican culture has played in the develop-
ment of the United States and the State of California; and be
it further
   Resolved, That the Members of the Legislature of the State
of California extend, on behalf of the people of this state,
their congratulations and felicitous greetings to our Mexican-
American citizens and our neighbors to the south in the
Republic of Mexico on the anniversary of the Battle of Guada-
lupe, Cinco de Mayo, and convey to them our warmest expres-
sion of friendship; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and transmit suitably
prepared copies to Assemblyman Garcia for appropriate dis-
tribution.

                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 140
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 159—Approving            an
  amendment to the Charter of the City of Riverside, County
  of Riverside, State of California, ratified by the qualified
  electors of the city at a general municipal election held
  therein on the eighth day of April, 1969.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of an amendment to the Char-
ter of the City of Riverside, a municipal corporation in the
County of Riverside, State of California, as hereinafter set
forth in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city,
as follows:

        CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION OF AMENDMENT TO THE
               CHARTER OF THE CITY OF RIVERSIDE

     (Amending Section 404 and adding a new Section 419)

State of California "j
County of Riverside | ss
City of Riverside   J

  We, the undersigned Ben H. Lewis, Mayor of the City of
Riverside, State of California, and Virginia J. Stroheeker,
3688              STATUSES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. On. 140

City Clerk of said City and ex-officio Clerk of the City Coun-
cil of said City, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That at all times since the 21st day of April, 1953, the City
of Eiverside has been and now is a municipal corporation and
city in the County of Eiverside, State of California, contain-
ing a population of more than 3,500 inhabitants and organized
and existing under a charter adopted pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the
State of California and approved by the Legislature by As-
sembly Concurrent Eesolution No. 8, adopted in Assembly
January 12, 1953, and in Senate January 15, 1953, and filed
with the Secretary of State on February 4,1953.
   That the legislative power of said City is vested in a City
Council consisting of seven (7) members; and that the City
Clerk of said City is ex-officio Clerk of the legislative body of
said City.
   There is no official newspaper of said City. The Press here-
inafter mentioned is a daily newspaper of general circulation
within said City and printed and published therein.
   That at all times herein mentioned Ben H. Lewis has been
and now is the duly elected, qualified and acting Mayor of said
City of Eiverside; and Virginia J. Strohecker has been and
now is the duly appointed, qualified and acting City Clerk of
said City.
   That the City Council of said City on its own motion by
Eesolution No. 11189 adopted January 21, 1969, submitted to
the electors of said City a proposal to amend its Charter as
hereinafter mentioned, to be voted on as a measure at the Gen-
eral Municipal Election to be held in said City on April 8,
1969. Said proposal is in words and figures as follows:

       City of Eiverside—Proposed Charter Amendment:
  Shall the Charter of the City of Eiverside be amended to
permit the Mayor to vote in order to break a tie vote of the
City Council?

   That the City Council caused said proposed charter amend-
ment to be published in The Press on February 20, 1969, and
in each edition thereof during said day; and also caused copies
of such proposed charter amendment to be printed in con-
venient pamphlet form in type of not less than 10-point and
mailed to each of the qualified electors of said City, and also
caused a notice that copies of said proposed charter amendment
could be had upon application at the office of the City Clerk
of said City to be published in every edition of The Press dur-
ing the period of time beginning February 27, 1969, through
April 8, 1969.
  That Sections 1000, 1001 and 1002 of the Charter of the
City of Eiverside provide as follows:
                    1969
Res. Ch. 140]              REGULAR SESSION                 3539

  Section 1000. General Municipal Elections.
     General municipal elections for the election of officers and
  for such other purposes as the City Council may prescribe
  shall be held in the City on the second Tuesday in April in
  each odd numbered year commencing with the year 1955.
  Section 1001. Special Municipal Elections.
     All other municipal elections that may be held by author-
  ity of this Charter, or of any law, shall be known as special
  municipal elections.
     A special municipal election shall be held for the election
  of the first Mayor and the first members of the City Coun-
  cil under this Charter on the tenth Tuesday following the
   approval of this Charter by the Legislature.
  Section 1002. Procedure for Holding Elections.
     Unless otherwise provided by ordinance hereafter en-
   acted, all elections shall be held in accordance with the pro-
   visions of the Elections Code of the State of California, as
  the same now exist or hereafter may be amended, for the
  holding of elections in cities of the sixth class so far as the
   same are not in conflict with this Charter.
No other procedure has been provided.
   That the City Council adopted Resolution No. 11203 order-
ing, calling, providing for and giving notice of a General Mu-
nicipal Election to be held in said city on April 8, 1969; and
the City Clerk duly published notice of election, which in-
cluded said charter amendment as a measure, in The Press on
January 23, 1969.
   That said General Municipal Election was duly held on
April 8, 1969, and the voters voted on said measure to amend
the Charter. That on Tuesday, April 15, 1969, pursuant to said
Resolution No. 11203 adopted by the City Council on Febru-
ary, 4, 1969, the City Clerk of the City of Riverside canvassed
the returns of said election and certified the results to said
 City Council. It was found and determined that the voters vot-
ing on said measure at said election cast votes as follows:

                                               YES       NO
  Proposed Charter Amendment                  14,790     2,837
   That said Proposed Charter Amendment received a majority
of the votes cast and hence said Charter Amendment was rati-
fied by the vote of a majority of the electors who voted on said
measure.
   That the City Council thereupon on April 15, 1969, adopted
Resolution No. 11236 reciting the fact of said election and the
matters enumerated in the Elections Code and the City Clerk
thereupon entered upon the records of the City Council a state-
ment of the result of such election.
   That the amendment to the Charter so proposed and ratified
is in words and figures as fORQWS ;
3690              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 140

Section 404.
   The mayor shall be the presiding officer at all meetings of
the city council and shall have a voice in all its proceedings
but shall not vote except on the appointment or removal of
members of the various boards and commissions and to break
a city council tie-vote which exists for any cause. He shall be
the official head of the city for all ceremonial purposes. He
shall have the primary but not exclusive responsibility for in-
terpreting the policies, programs and needs of the city govern-
ment to the people, and of informing the people of any major
change in policy or program. He shall advise the city council
on all matters of policy and public relations and perform such
other duties as may be prescribed by this Charter.

   The city council shall designate one of its members as mayor
pro tempore, who shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure
of the city council. In addition to his regular duties as council-
man, the mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of the
mayor during his absence or disability.

Section 419.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter when
a tie-vote exists for any cause, in order to break that tie, the
mayor shall have the same voting right as a city councilman
for or against the item before the City Council. The mayor's
vote shall be deemed a city councilman's vote for all purposes,
including the introduction or adoption of both ordinances and
resolutions.

   We do further certify that the foregoing constitutes a full,
true and correct statement of the actions and proceedings had
by the City of Riverside and its City Council and City Clerk
in the matter of submitting the proposal to amend the City
Charter and in calling, noticing and conducting the election
and certifying the canvass of the returns and declaring the
results thereof.
   In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and af-
fixed the seal of the City of Riverside this 15th day of April,
1969.
                        B E N H.   LEWIS
  (SEAL)                Mayor of the City of Riverside
               Attest   VIRGINIA J. STROHECKER
                        City Clerk of the City of Riverside
and
   WHEREAS, The proposed amendment to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, has been and
now is duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of Ar-
ticle X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
                        1969
Ees. Ch. 142]                  REGULAR SESSION                       3691

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of Riverside,
County of Riverside, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified
by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth, is
hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment,
for and as an amendment to, and as part of the Charter of
the City of Riverside, County of Riverside.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 141
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 102—Relative                  to Maritime
                Day and World Trade Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, It has come to the attention of the Members of the
Senate and the Assembly that May 22, 1969, will be the anni-
versary of the sailing of the Savannah on the first steam-
propelled crossing of the Atlantic; and
   WHEREAS, May 22 falls within the week which is usually pro-
claimed by the President of the United States as ' ' World Trade
Week"; and
   WHEREAS, In view of the importance of the maritime indus-
try to this state and the nation, it is fitting and proper that
this industry be given official recognition; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Governor of the State of Cali-
fornia is respectfully requested to proclaim Thursday, May 22,
1969, as "Maritime D a y " and May 18 through 24, 1969, as
"World Trade W e e k " ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared copy
to Mr. J. F. Parkinson, president-elect of the Propeller Club
for the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 142
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 110—Relative to pro-
  claiming the week of April 20th through April 26th as Inde-
  pendent Order of Odd Fellows Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 2, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Independent Order of Odd Fellows of Cali-
fornia has dedicated itself to the promotion of good will
among men and to the advancement and betterment of man-
kind in each city and community in which it exists; and
3692               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Res. Ch. 143

  WHEREAS, The Independent Order of Odd Fellows has
played an important part in the development of the State of
California for more than 100 years; and
  WHEREAS, The Independent Order of Odd Fellows this
year will commemorate its 150th anniversary on the North
American Continent, and its 121st anniversary in the State of
California; and
  WHEREAS, The officers and members of the Independent
Order of Odd Fellows of California have requested that the
week of April 20th through April 26th (the date of April
26th being the date of the birth of the fraternity 150 years
ago) be proclaimed as Independent Order of Odd Fellows
Week; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members congratulate
the Independent Order of Odd Fellows on its 150th anni-
versary ; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Governor is requested to issue a procla-
mation designating the week of April 20th through April
26th as Independent Order of Odd Fellows Week; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy of this resolution to the Sovereign Grand Master of
the Independent Order of Odd Fellows.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 143
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 152—Approving 10 cer-
  tain amendments to the Charter of the City of Los Angeles,
  a municipal corporation, in the County of Los Angeles, State
  of California, voted for and ratified by the electors of said
  city at a general municipal election held therein on the first
  day of April 1969.
              [Filed with Secretary of State May 2, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
adoption and ratification of 10 amendments, hereinafter set
forth, to the Charter of the City of Los Angeles, a municipal
corporation, in the County of Los Angeles, State of California,
as set out in the certificate of the President of the Council of
the City of Los Angeles and the city clerk of said city, as fol-
lows:

       CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER OF THE
                CITY OP LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

State of California "1
County of Los Angeles \ ss.
City of Los Angeles J
                      1969
Res. Ch. 143]                REGULAR SESSION                     3693

    We, L. B. Timberlake, President of the Council of the City
 of Los Angeles, and Rex E. Layton, City Clerk of the City of
 Los Angeles, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
    That said City of Los Angeles, in the County of Los Angeles,
in the State of California, is now, and was at all times herein
mentioned: (a) a city containing a population of more than
two million one hundred thousand inhabitants as ascertained
by the last preceding census taken under the authority of the
 Congress of the United States; (b) a city organized and exist-
ing under a freeholders' charter, adopted under the provisions
of Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of the State of
California, which charter was heretofore duly ratified by a
majority of the electors of said city at a special election held
for that purpose on the 6th day of May 1924, and approved
by the Legislature of the State of California by concurrent
resolution filed with the Secretary of State on the 26th day
of Janury 1925 (Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 2, Chapter
No. 5, Statutes 1925, p. 1024).
    That in accordance with the provisions of Article X I , Sec-
tion 8 of the Constitution of the State of California, the Coun-
cil of the City of Los Angeles, being the legislative body of
said city, on its own motion, duly and regularly submitted to
the qualified electors of the City of Los Angeles certain pro-
posals for the amendment of the charter of said city to be
voted upon by said qualified electors at a certain general mu-
nicipal election held on the 1st day of April 1969, all as re-
quired by law, which said proposals were designated as pro-
posed Charter Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10,
respectively.
   That on the 14th day of February 1969, the said proposed
amendments were published and advertised in accordance with
Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution, in each and every
edition of said day of February 14, 1969, in " T h e Los An-
geles Daily Journal," a daily newspaper of general circulation
printed and circulated in said city, and being the official news-
paper for said purpose; all as shown by the affidavit of publi-
cation on file in the office of the City Clerk of said city.
   That copies of said proposed charter amendments were
printed in convenient pamphlet form in type of ten-point, and
were mailed to each of the qualified electors of said city; and
copies thereof could be had upon application therefor at the
office of the City Clerk on and from F'ebruary 14, 1969, to and
including April 1, 1969; and a notice was advertised and pub-
lished on and from February 14, 1969, to and including April
1, 1969, in " T h e Los Angeles Daily J o u r n a l , " a newspaper of
general circulation in said city, that copies thereof might be
had at the office of the City Clerk of said city upon application
therefor.
   Such proposed charter amendments were submitted to the
electors of said city for adoption and ratification at a general
municipal election held on April 1, 1969, which was not less
3694              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ R e g (Jh. 143

than forty, nor more than sixty, days after completion of the
advertising in the official paper of the proposed charter amend-
ments aforesaid.
   At said election a majority of the qualified electors voting
upon each of the proposed charter amendments voted in favor
thereof and adopted and ratified the same, as appears by the
official canvass of the returns thereof by the City Clerk of the
City of Los Angeles, heretofore certified by him to the Council
of said city, and the declaration of the Council of said City of
Los Angeles, which pursuant to law met on April 16. 1969,
at its usual time and place of meeting, and duly declared the
result of said canvass of the returns of said election, as certi-
fied by the said City Clerk.
   That the said amendments to the Charter of the City of Los
Angeles, so adopted and ratified by the qualified electors of
said city, and which shall be submitted to the Legislature for
approval or rejection, are in words and figures as follows:

             Proposed Charter Amendment No. 1
   Article X V I I of the Charter of the City of Los Angeles
hereby is amended by adding Section 181.1 thereto and Article
X V I I I of said Charter hereby is amended by adding Section
190.041 and Section 190.111 thereto, to read:
   Sec. 181.1 (A) (1) A retired member, whenever retired,
may file, with the Chief of the department from which he re-
tired, a written application to be returned to active duty
therein only upon the conditions: (a) that his original retire-
ment had been pursuant to Section 181 and had been (I) from
the Fire Department while holding a rank no higher than
Engineer or (II) from the Police Department while holding
a rank no higher than Sergeant; (b) that, as of the filing date
of such application, (I) the period of his original retirement
had been no longer than 3 years and (II) he shall be under
the age of 55 years; and (c) that he satisfactorily had passed
a medical examination not more than 30 days prior to the effec-
tive date of his original retirement, provided, however, that
the Chief, if the effective date thereof had been prior to the
effective date of this section, may waive the condition contained
in this (c).
   (2) The Chief may approve any such application only upon
the conditions that, subsequent to the filing date thereof, the
retired member: (a) had passed a medical examination from
which it had been determined that he would be capable of
performing the duties which would be assigned to him if he
were to be returned to active duty, provided, however, that
such determination thereafter had been approved or concurred
in by the board; and (b) had certified, in writing, that he had
read and understands the provisions of this section and Sec-
tion 190.041.
   (3) The Chief, if he were to approve any such application,
may return the retired member to active duty only in or to a
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 143]               REGULAR SESSION                   3695
 vacant position in the rank held by him at the effective date
of his original retirement.
    (4) A retired member, if he were to be returned to active
 duty, thereafter shall be known as a "reactivated member"
and, as such:
    (a) His return to active duty shall be a privilege only and
not an appointment as a Department Member as provided by
 Section 190.03 for the purposes of Article X V I I I , he shall be
on probation for one year from and after the effective date
thereof regardless of any other provision of law contained in
this Charter or otherwise and the Chief may terminate his
service at any time during such year;
   (b) His pension, granted by reason of his original retire-
ment, shall be terminated by the board as of the effective date
of his return to active duty;
   (c) His service subsequent to the effective date of his re-
turn to active duty, for the purposes of this Article and regard-
less of any other provision of law contained in this Charter
or otherwise, shall consist of only (I) the days for which he
shall be paid for performing his assigned duties, ( I I ) his days
of vacation with pay and ( I I I ) his regular days off duty with
pay, and one year of such service shall consist of a total of 365
such days;
   (d) His aggregate years of service, for the purposes of (I)
his eligibility to advancement in accordance with Civil Service
rules and regulations and (II) the payment of his salary and
longevity pay or merit pay, shall consist of only (i) his years
of service prior to the effective date of his original retirement
and (ii) his service subsequent to the effective date of his
return to active duty.
   (e) His aggregate years of service ,for the purposes of this
Article and regardless of any other provision of law contained
in this Charter or otherwise, shall consist of only (I) his years
of service prior to the effective date of his original retirement
and (II) his service subsequent to the effective date of bis re-
turn to active duty, provided, however, that such service shall
be for not less than one year as defined in Subparagraph (c)
of this Paragraph ( 4 ) ;
   (f) He shall be assumed to have a satisfactory standard of
service and shall be paid (I) the salary provided for his rank
and (II) the longevity pay or merit pay provided for his ag-
gregate years of service as defined in Subparagraph (e) of
this Paragraph (4), subject, however, to all provisions appli-
cable to the termination of payment of longevity pay or merit
pay;
   (g) He shall have deductions made for pension purposes,
pursuant to Section 186^, from his salary and longevity pay
or merit pay;
   (h) He never shall be entitled to a subsequent retirement
pursuant to Section 182-J and his widow, his minor child or
children (hereafter referred to in this Paragraph (4) as " h i s
3696               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Ch. 143

child") or his dependent parent or parents (hereafter referred
 to in this Paragraph (4) as "his p a r e n t " ) never shall be
 granted a pension pursuant to Section 183-|;
     (i) He shall be entitled to a subsequent retirement pursuant
 to Section 182 if he were to become eligible therefor and upon
 his death, if he theretofore had had such a subsequent retire-
 ment, a pension shall be granted pursuant to applicable provi-
 sions of Section 183 to his widow, if she shall have been mar-
 ried to him (I) for at least one year prior to the effective date
 of his original retirement or (II) for at least one year subse-
 quent to the effective date of his return to active duty and
 prior to the effective date of his subsequent retirement, or to
his child or to his parent;
    (j) His widow or his child or his parent, if he were to die
while a reactivated member from any cause arising out of or
from the performance of his duties, shall be granted a pension
pursuant to applicable provisions of Section 183;
    (k) His widow, if she shall have been married to him (I)
 for at least one year prior to the effective date of his original
 retirement or (II) for at least one year subsequent to the ef-
 fective date of his return to active duty and prior to the date
 of his death, or his child or his parent, if he were to die while
a reactivated member from any cause other than a cause arising
 out of or from the performance of his duties, shall be granted
a pension pursuant to applicable provisions of Section 183;
    (1) His pension, granted by reason of his original retire-
ment, if his service were to be terminated during the one year
from and after the effective date of his return to active duty for
any reason other than by reason of his subsequent retirement
pursuant to Section 182, shall be reinstated by the board, as
of the effective date of the termination of his service, at the
amount of pension which then would have been payable to him
if he had not returned to active duty and, upon his death, the
pension which shall be granted pursuant to Section 183 to his
widow, if she shall have been married to him for at least one
year prior to the effective date of his original retirement, or to
his child or to his parent, shall be calculated upon the salary
upon which his pension had been calculated as of the effective
date of his original retirement; and
    (m) He shall be entitled to a subsequent retirement pursu-
ant to Section 181, based upon his aggregate years of service
as defined in Subparagraph (e) of this Paragraph (4), and his
pension shall be calculated upon a sum equal to the salary
upon which his pension had been calculated as of the effective
date of his original retirement (hereinafter referred to as
"such salary"), plus a percentage of the difference between
such salary and his salary as of the effective date of his subse-
quent retirement, for his years of service subsequent to the
effective date of his return to active duty as defined in Subpar-
agraph (c) of this Paragraph (4), so that such sum shall be
 (I) such salary plus 20% of such difference for one such year,
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 1431               REGULAR SESSION                  369?
(II) such salary plus 40% of such difference for two such
years, ( I I I ) such salary plus 60% of such difference for three
such years, (IV) such salary plus 80% of such difference for
four such years and (V) such salary plus 100% of such dif-
ference for five or more such years or the equivalent of his
salary as of the effective date of his subsequent retirement and
upon his death, if he theretofore had had such a subsequent
retirement, the pension which shall be granted pursuant to
Section 183 to his widow, if she shall have been married to
him (i) for at least one year prior to the effective date of his
original retirement or (ii) for at least one year subsequent to
the effective date of his return to active duty and prior to the
effective date of his subsequent retirement, or to his child or
to his parent, shall be calculated upon the sum upon which his
pension had been calculated as of the effective date of his sub-
sequent retirement.
   (5) The provisions of this Article and of Section 190.03 of
Article X V I I I hereafter shall be construed and applied, as to
a reactivated member, his widow, his child and his parent, in
accordance with respectively applicable provisions of Para-
graph (4) of this subsection of this section.
   (B) (1) The Chief shall promulgate such rules and set such
standards as he may deem to be necessary or desirable with
respect to recalling a retired member to active duty.
   (2) A retired member, whenever retired, shall be eligible to
be recalled to active duty in the department from which he
retired only upon the conditions: (a) that his original retire-
ment had been pursuant to Section 181 and had been (I) from
the Fire Department while holding a rank lower than Chief
Engineer or (II) from the Police Department while holding a
rank lower than Chief of Police: (b) that he had certified, in
writing, that he had read and understands the provisions of
this section; and (c) that he voluntarily had consented to be
recalled to active duty.
   (3) The Chief may recall a retired member to active d u t y :
 (a) only in or to a vacant position in the rank held by him at
the effective date of his original retirement; and (b) for not to
exceed 90 days in any one calendar year.
    (4) A retired member, if he were to be recalled to active
duty, thereafter shall be known as a "recalled member" and,
as such:
    (a) His recall to active duty shall be a privilege only and
the Chief may terminate his service at any time;
   (b) His pension shall be paid during the period of his re-
call to active duty;
    (c) He shall be paid (I) the salary provided for his rank
and (II) the longevity pay or merit pay provided for his
aggregate years of service prior to the effective date of his
original retirement;
    (d) He shall have no deductions made for pension purposes,
pursuant to Section 186J, from his salary and longevity pay
or merit pay; and
3698               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 143

    (e) He, his widow, his minor child or children or his de-
 pendent parent or parents never shall be entitled to any pen-
sion benefits provided by this Article or Article X V I I I by
 reason of his service as a recalled member.
    (5) The provisions of this Article hereafter shall be con-
 strued and applied, as to a recalled member, his widow, his
minor child or children and his dependent parent or parents,
in accordance with respectively applicable provisions of Para-
 graph (4) of this subsection of this section.
    Sec. 190.041. Bequest By a Reactivated Member Under
 Article X V I I to Become a System Member.
    A reactivated member under Article X V I I who, subsequent
 to the effective date of his return to active duty shall have had
 five years of service as defined in Subparagraph (c) of Para-
 graph (4) of Subsection (A) of Section 181.1, shall have the
 right, pursuant to Section 190.04, to become a System Member
under this Article, provided, however, that he may exercise
such right only within the one year from and after the date
upon which he shall have completed such five years of service.
Any such reactivated member who shall become a System
Member also shall become a reactivated member under this
Article.
    Section 190.04 hereafter shall be construed and applied, as
 to a reactivated member under Article XVII, in accordance
with this section.
    See. 190.111. Keturn or Recall of Service Pensioners to
Active Duty.
    (A) (1) A retired member, whenever retired, may file, with
the Chief of the department from which he retired, a written
application to be returned to active duty therein only upon
the conditions: (a) that his original retirement had been pur-
suant to Section 190.11 and had been (I) from the Fire De-
partment while holding a rank no higher than Engineer or
 (II) from the Police Department while holding a rank no
higher than Sergeant; (b) that, as of the filing date of such
application, (I) the period of his original retirement had been
no longer than 3 years and (II) he shall be under the age of
55 years; and (c) that he satisfactorily had passed a medical
examination not more than 30 days prior to the effective date
of his original retirement, provided, however, that the Chief,
if the effective date thereof had been prior to the effective date
of this section, may waive the condition contained in this (c).
    (2) The Chief may approve any such application only upon
the conditions that, subsequent to the filing date thereof, the
retired member: (a) had passed a medical examination from
which it had been determined that he would be capable of per-
forming the duties which would be assigned to him if he were
to be returned to active duty, provided, however, that such
determination thereafter had been approved or concurred in
by the Board; and (b) had certified, in writing, that he had
read and understands the provisions of this section.
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 143]              REGULAR SESSION                  3699
   (3) The Chief, if he were to approve any such application,
may return the retired member to active duty only in or to a
vacant position in the rank held by him at the effective date of
his original retirement.
   (4) Wherever words are used in this Paragraph (4) with
respect to any pension granted or to be granted pursuant to
any of the first six paragraphs of Subsection (a) of Section
190.13, they also shall mean and include the words, as used in
Paragraph (3) of Subsection (b) of Section 190.14, "whether
by reason of the provisions thereof or of those of subsection
 (b) or of subsection (c) of said section, including any addi-
tional pension amounts payable pursuant to paragraph (7)
of subsection (a) of said section ".
   A retired member, if he were to be returned to active duty,
thereafter shall be known as a "reactivated member" and, as
such:
    (a) His return to active duty shall be a privilege only, he
shall be on probation for one year from and after the effective
date thereof regardless of any other provision of law contained
in this Charter or otherwise and the Chief may terminate his
service at any time during such year;
    (b) His pension, granted by reason of his original retire-
ment, shall be terminated by the Board as of the effective date
of his return to active duty;
    (c) His service subsequent to the effective date of his re-
turn to active duty, for the purposes of this Article and re-
gardless of any other provision of law contained in this
Charter or otherwise, shall consist of only (I) the days for
which he shall be paid for performing his assigned duties,
 (II) his days of vacation with pay and ( I I I ) his regular days
off duty with pay, and one year of such service shall consist
of a total of 365 such days;
    (d) His aggregate years of service, for the purposes of
 (I) his eligibility to advancement in accordance with Civil
 Service rules and regulations and (II) the payment of his
salary and longevity pay or merit pay, shall consist of only
 (i) his years of service prior to the effective date of his
 original retirement and (ii) his service subsequent to the
effective date of his return to active duty;
    (e) His aggregate years of service, for the purposes of
 this Article and regardless of any other provision of law con-
 tained in this Charter or otherwise, shall consist of only (I)
 his years of service prior to the effective date of his original
 retirement and (II) his service subsequent to the effective
 date of his return to active duty, provided, however, that
 such service shall be for not less than one year as defined
 in Subparagraph (e) of this Paragraph (4) ;
     (f) He shall be assumed to have a satisfactory standard
 of service and shall be paid (I) the salary provided for his
 rank and (II) the longevity pay or merit pay provided for
 his aggregate years of service as defined in Subparagraph (e)
3700               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [ReS. Ch. 143

 of this Paragraph (4), subject, however, to all provisions
 applicable to the termination of payment of longevity pay or
 merit pay;
     (g) He shall have deductions made for pension purposes,
 pursuant to Section 190.10, from his salary and longevity pay
 or merit pay;
    (h) He never shall be entitled to a subsequent retirement
 pursuant to Subsection (b) of Section 190.12 and his sur-
 viving spouse, his minor child or children or dependent child
 or children (hereafter referred to in this Paragraph (4) as
 "his child") or his dependent parent or parents (hereafter
 referred to in this Paragraph (4) as "his p a r e n t " ) never
 shall be granted a pension pursuant to Paragraph (2) or
 Paragraph (4) of Subsection (a) of Section 190.13;
    (i) He shall be entitled to a subsequent retirement pur-
 suant to Subsection (a) of Section 190.12 if he were to be-
 come eligible therefor and upon his death, if he theretofore
 had had such a subsequent retirement, a pension shall be
 granted pursuant to Paragraph (3) of Subsection (a) of
 Section 190.13 to his surviving spouse, if she shall have been
 married to him as of the effective date of his subsequent re-
 tirement, or to his child or to his parent;
    (j) His surviving spouse or his child or his parent, if he
 were to die while a reactivated member from any cause
 arising out of or from the performance of his duties, shall be
 granted a pension pursuant to Paragraph (1) of Subsection
 (a) of Section 190.13;
    (k) His surviving spouse, if she shall have been married
to him (I) for at least one year prior to the effective date of
his original retirement or (II) for at least one year subse-
quent to the effective date of his return to active duty and
prior to the date of his death, or his child or his parent, if he
were to die while a reactivated member from any cause
other than a cause arising out of or from the performance of
his duties, shall be granted a pension pursuant to Paragraph
 (6) of Subsection (a) of Section 190.13;
    (1) His pension, granted by reason of his original re-
tirement, if his service were to be terminated during the one
year from and after the effective date of his return to active
duty for any reason other than by reason of his subsequent
retirement pursuant to Subsection (a) of Section 190.12, shall
be reinstated by the Board, as of the effective date of the
termination of his service, at the amount of pension which
then would have been payable to him if he had not returned
to active duty and, upon his death, the pension which shall
be granted pursuant to Paragraph (5) of Subsection (a) of
Section 190.13 to his surviving spouse, if she shall have been
married to him for at least one year prior to the effective
date of his original retirement, or to his child or to his
parent, shall be calculated upon the Normal Pension Base
upon which his pension had been calculated as of the effective
date of his original retirement; and
                    1969
Hes. Ch. 143]              REGULAR SESSION                  3701

    (m) He shall be entitled to a subsequent retirement pur-
suant to Section 190.11, based upon his aggregate years of
service as denned in Subparagraph (e) of this Paragraph
 (4), and his pension shall be calculated upon a sum equal to
the Normal Pension Base upon which his pension had been
calculated as of the effective date of his original retirement
(hereinafter referred to as "such b a s e " ) , plus a percentage
of the difference between such base and that which, if he had
not had his original retirement, would have been his Normal
Pension Base as of the effective date of his subsequent re-
tirement, for his years of service subsequent to the effective
date of his return to active duty as defined in Subparagraph
 (c) of this Paragraph (4), so that such sum shall be (I) such
base plus 20% of such difference for one such year, ( I I ) such
base plus 40% of such difference for two such years, ( I I I )
such base plus 60% of such difference for three such years,
 (IV) such base plus 80% of such difference for four such
years and (V) such base plus 100% of such difference for
five or more such years or the equivalent of his Normal
Pension Base as of the effective date of his subsequent re-
tirement and upon his death, if he theretofore had had such
a subsequent retirement, the pension which shall be granted
pursuant to Paragraph (5) of Subsection (a) of Section
190.13 to his surviving spouse, if she shall have been married
to him (i) for at least one year prior to the effective date of
his original retirement or (ii) for at least one year subse-
quent to the effective date of his return to active duty and
prior to the effective dat eof his subsequent retirement or to
his child or to his parent, shall be calculated upon the sum
upon which his pension had been calculated as of the effective
date of his subsequent retirement.
   (5) The provisions of this Article hereafter shall be con-
strued and applied, as to a reactivated member, his surviving
spouse, his child and his parent, in accordance with respec-
tively applicable provisions of Paragraph (4) of this subsec-
tion of this section.
   (B) (1) The Chief shall promulgate such rules and set
such standards as he may deem to be necessary or desirable
with respect to recalling a retired member to active duty.
   (2) A retired member, whenever retired, shall be eligible
to be recalled to active duty in the department from which he
retired only upon the conditions: (a) that his original retire-
ment had been pursuant to Section 190.11 and had been (I)
from the Fire Department while holding a rank lower than
Chief Engineer or (II) from the Police Department while
holding a rank lower than Chief of Police; (b) that he had
certified, in writing, that he had read and understands the
provisions of this section; and (c) that he voluntarily had
consented to be recalled to active duty.
   (3) The Chief may recall a retired member to active d u t y :
 (a) only in or to a vacant position in the rank held by him
3702                  STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [EeS. Ch. 143

at the effective date of his original retirement; and (b) for
not to exceed 90 days in any one calendar year.
   (4) A retired member, if he were to be recalled to active
duty, thereafter shall be known as a "recalled member" and,
as such:
   (a) His recall to active duty shall be a privilege only and
the Chief may terminate his service at any time;
   (b) His pension shall be paid during the period of his
recall to active duty;
   (c) He shall be paid (I) the salary provided for his rank
and (II) the longevity pay or merit pay provided for his
aggregate years of service prior to the effective date of his
original retirement;
   (d) He shall have no deductions made for pension pur-
poses, pursuant to Section 190.10, from his salary and longev-
ity pay or merit pay; and
   (e) He, his surviving spouse, his minor child or children
or dependent child or children or his dependent parent or
parents never shall be entitled to any pension benefits pro-
vided by this Article or Article X V I I by reason of his service
as a recalled member.
   (5) The provisions of this Article hereafter shall be con-
strued and applied, as to a recalled member, his surviving
spouse, his minor child or children or dependent child or chil-
dren and his dependent parent or parents, in accordance with
respectively applicable provisions of Paragraph (4) of this
subsection of this section.

                Proposed Charter Amendment No. 2
    Article X V I I of the Charter of the City of Los Angeles
hereby is amended by adding Section 183.6 and Section 184.9
thereto and Article X V I I I of said Charter hereby is amended
by adding Section 190.141 thereto, to read:
    Sec. 183.6. Wherever used in this section, "person",
"child", " g u a r d i a n " and " e s t a t e " each shall include its plu-
ral.
    Upon the death hereafter of a retired member, heretofore
or hereafter retired pursuant to Section 182J, any person
entitled to a pension pursuant to Section 1 8 3 | must make
and file with the board a written election to have the amount
thereof calculated either upon the salary specified in Section
183J or upon the salary specified in Section 1 8 2 | and the
board shall grant the pension in accordance therewith. Any
such election, on behalf of any incompetent person or on be-
half of a minor child of such member, must be made by the
guardian of his estate and shall be either authorized or ap-
proved by a court order, a certified copy of which shall be
filed with the board.
   Section 183J hereafter shall be construed and applied in
accordance with this section.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 143]              REGULAR SESSION                  3703
   Sec. 184.9. (A) Wherever used in this section: (1) " t h e
pension'' shall mean, unless Section 184.7 shall be mentioned in
conjunction therewith, only a pension which (a) is not iden-
tified in Section 184.7, (b) is not referred to in Section 184.8
and (c) is in an amount which shall not increase or decrease
by reason of any increase or decrease in the salary of any
active member; (2) " t h e July 1st following" shall mean only
a July 1st subsequent to the effective date of this section; and
 (3) " p e r s o n " shall include its plural.
    (B) The percentage of increase or decrease in the cost of
living hereafter shall be applied pursuant to Section 184.7
and the terms and conditions contained in this section:
    (1) To the pension of any retired member, heretofore or
hereafter retired pursuant to Section 182 or Section 182^,
upon the July 1st following (a) the date he shall have attained
the age of 55 years or (b) the fifth anniversary of the effective
date of the pension, whichever shall be the earlier;
    (2) To the pension of any person, (a) heretofore or here-
after granted pursuant to Section 183 or Section 183£ upon
the death of an active member not eligible to retire pursuant
to Section 181, (b) heretofore or hereafter granted pursuant
to Section 183 upon the death of an active member eligible to
retire pursuant to Section 181 and which pension of such
person is identified in Paragraph (4) or Paragraph (5) of
Section 184.7, (c) heretofore granted pursuant to Section
1831 upon the death of a retired member theretofore retired
pursuant to Section 182J, or (d) hereafter granted pursuant
to Section 183J upon the death of a retired member thereto-
fore retired pursuant to Section 182^ where the amount of
the pension shall be calculated upon the salary specified in
Section 183-J by reason of such person's written election there-
for pursuant to Section 183.6, upon the July 1st following (I)
the date such member shall have attained the age of 55 years,
 (II) the date such member would have attained such age if
he then had been alive or (III) the fifth anniversary of the
effective date of the pension of such person, whichever shall
be the earliest; and
    (3) To the pension of any person, (a) heretofore or here-
after granted pursuant to Section 183 upon the death of a
retired member theretofore retired pursuant to Section 182,
 (b) heretofore or hereafter granted pursuant to Section 183
upon the death of a retired member theretofore retired pur-
suant to Section 181 and which pension of such person is
identified in Paragraph (4) or Paragraph (5) of Section 184.7,
or (c) hereafter granted pursuant to Section 183-J upon the
death of a retired member theretofore retired pursuant to
Section 1 8 2 | where the amount of the pension shall be calcu-
lated upon the salary specified in Section 1 8 2 | by reason of
such person's written election therefor pursuant to Section
183.6, upon the July 1st following (I) the date such member
shall have attained the age of 55 years, (II) the date such
member would have attained such age if he then had been
3704                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [EeS. Ch. 143

 alive or ( I I I ) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the
 pension of such member, whichever shall be the earliest.
     (C) The following provisions, in respects other than those
 provided for in Subsection (B) of this section, hereafter shall
 be controlling in the application to certain pensions o fthe
 percentage of increase or decrease in the cost of living.
     (1) Whenever the amount of the pension (a) of any retired
 member shall be increased or decreased pursuant to Section
 182 or (b) of any widow shall be increased or decreased pur-
 suant to Section 183 or Section 183J: (I) the amount of any
 such increase shall not include the percentage of any increase
 in the cost of living which theretofore had been applied to
 the former amount of the pension; and (II) the amount of
 any such decrease shall include the percentage of any increase
 in the cost of living which theretofore had been applied to
 it as a portion of the former amount of the pension.
     (2) Whenever the pension of any person, (a) hereafter
 shall be granted pursuant to Section 183 upon the death of a
 retired member theretofore retired pursuant to Section 181
 and which pension of such person is identified in Paragraph
  (4) or Paragraph (5) of Section 184.7, (b) hereafter shall be
 granted pursuant to Section 183 upon the death of a retired
 member theretofore retired pursuant to Section 182 or (c)
 hereafter shall be granted pursuant to Section 183-| upon
 the death of a retired member theretofore retired pursuant
 to Section 182J where the amount of the pension shall be
calculated upon the salary specified in Section 182^ by rea-
son of such person's written election therefor pursuant to
 Section 183.6, the amount of the pension of any such person,
 (I) if the amount thereof which shall be payable to such per-
son were to be more than the amount of the pension which
had been payable to such member, shall include the percent-
age of any increase in the cost of living which had been ap-
plied to the pension of such member, or (II) if the amount
thereof which shall be payable to such person were to be less
than the amount of the pension which had been payable to
such member, shall include that portion of the percentage of
any increase in the cost of living which had been applied to
the pension of such member which shall be in the same ratio
as the amount of the pension which shall be payable to such
person shall bear to the amount of the pension which had
been payable to such member, and the percentage of any in-
crease or decrease in the cost of living in excess of 2% per
year which had been carried over for such member as of the
date of his death shall be carried over for such person if (I)
hereof were to be applicable or in the same ratio therein pro-
vided if (II) hereof were to be applicable.
    (3) Whenever the pension o fany widow hereafter shall
be terminated pursuant to Section 183 or Section 183^ and
the pension therein provided thereafter shall become payable
pursuant thereto on behalf of any minor child or children of
                    1969
Res. Ch. 1431              &E<3tr:LAR SESSION               3705

the deceased member, the amount of pension on behalf of
such child or children shall include that portion of the per-
centage of any increase in the cost of living which had been
applied to the pension of such widow which shall be in the
same ratio as the amount of the pension which shall be pay-
able on behalf of such child or children shall bear to the
amount of the pension which had been payable to such widow,
and the percentage of any increase or decrease in the cost of
living in excess of 2% per year which had been carried over
for such widow as of the date of the termination of her pension
shall be carried over on behalf of such child or children in the
same ratio hereinabove provided.
   (D) The amount of the pension never shall be reduced, by
reason of the application thereto of the provisions of Section
184.7 or this section, to an amount less than: (1) the amount
thereof if Section 184& is applicable thereto; (2) the amount
thereof if Section 184.6 is applicable thereto; (3) the amount
thereof if Section 184.65 is applicable thereto; or (4) the
amount thereof payable pursuant to provisions of this Article,
other than those of Section 184.7 or this section, if none of the
sections mentioned in (1), (2) or (3) above is applicable
thereto.
   (B) Section 184.7 hereafter shall be construed and applied
in accordance with this section as to each pension mentioned in
this section.
   Sec. 190.141. Extension of Cost of Living Adjustments to
Pensions Formerly Excluded Therefrom.
   (A) Wherever used in this section: (1) " t h e pension" shall
mean, unless Section 190.14 shall be mentioned in conjunction
therewith, only a pension which is not identified in Section
190.14; (2) " t h e July 1st following" shall mean only a July
1st subsequent to the effective date of this section; (3) "Bene-
ficiary" shall include its plural; and (4) words with respect
to any pension granted or to be granted pursuant to any of
the first six paragraphs of Subsection (a) of Section 190.13
also shall mean and include the words, as used in Paragraph
 (3) of Subsection (b) of Section 190.14, "whether by reason
of the provisions thereof or of those of subsection (b) or of
subsection (c) of said section, including any additional pension
amounts payable pursuant to paragraph (7) of subsection (a)
of said section".
   (B) The percentage of increase or decrease in the cost of
living hereafter shall be applied pursuant to Section 190.14
and the terms and conditions contained in this section:
    (1) To the pension of any Ketired Member, heretofore or
hereafter granted pursuant to Subsection (a) or Subsection
 (b) of Section 190.12, upon the July 1st following (a) the
date he shall have had 25 years of service, (b) the date he
would have had 25 years of service if he theretofore had not
retired or (3) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the
pension, whichever shall be the earliest;
3706               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [fteS. Qh. 143

     (2) To the pension of any Beneficiary, (a) heretofore or
 hereafter granted pursuant to Paragraph (1) or Paragraph
  (2) of Subsection (a) of Section 190.13 upon the death of a
 Department Member not eligible to retire pursuant to Section
 190.11, or (b) heretofore or hereafter granted pursuant to
 Paragraph (6) of Subsection (a) of Section 190.13 upon the
 death of a Department Member eligible to retire pursuant to
 Section 190.11 and which pension of such Beneficiary is iden-
 tified in Paragraph (3) or Paragraph (4) of Subsection (b)
 of Section 190.14, upon the July 1st following (I) the date
 such member shall have had 26 years of service, (II) the date
 such member would have had 26 years of service if he then had
 been alive or (III) the fifth anniversary of the effective date
 of the pension of such Beneficiary, whichever shall be the
 earliest; and
     (3) To the pension of any Beneficiary, (a) heretofore or
 hereafter granted pursuant to Paragraph (5) of Subsection
  (a) of Section 190.13 upon the death of a Retired Member
 theretofore retired pursuant to Section 190.11 and which pen-
 sion of such Beneficiary is identified in Paragraph (3) or
 Paragraph (4) of Subsection (b) of Section 190.14, (b) here-
 tofore or hereafter granted pursuant to Paragraph (3) of Sub-
 section (a) of Section 190.13 upon the death of a Retired
 Member theretofore retired pursuant to Subsection (a) of
 Section 190.12, or (c) heretofore or hereafter granted pur-
 suant to Paragraph (4) of Subsection (a) of Section 190.13
 upon the death of a Retired Member theretofore retired pur-
 suant to Subsection (b) of Section 190.12, upon the July 1st
 following (I) the date such member shall have had 26 years
 of service, (II) the date such member would have had 26 years
 of service if he theretofore had not retired and then had been
 alive or (III) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the
 pension of such member, whichever shall be the earliest.
     (C) The following provisions, in respects other than those
provided for in Subsection (B) of this section, hereafter shall
be controlling in the application to certain pensions of the
percentage of increase or decrease in the cost of living.
    (1) Whenever the amount of the pension (a) of any Re-
tired Member shall be increased or decreased pursuant to Sub-
section (a) and Subsection (c) of Section 190.12 or (b) of
any qualified surviving spouse shall be increased or decreased
pursuant to any paragraph of Subsection (a) of Section
190.13: (I) the amount of any such increase shall not include
the percentage of any increase in the cost of living which
theretofore had been applied to the former amount of the
pension; and (II) the amount of any such decrease shall in-
clude the percentage of any increase in the cost of living
which theretofore had been applied to it as a portion of the
former amount of the pension.
    (2) Whenever the pension of any Beneficiary, (a) here-
after shall be granted pursuant to Paragraph (5) of Subsec-
                    1989
Ees. Ch. 143]              REGULAR SESSION                 3707
tion (a) of Section 190.13 upon the death of a Eetired Mem-
ber theretofore retired pursuant to Section 190.11 and which
pension of such Beneficiary is identified in Paragraph (3)
or Paragraph (4) of Subsection (b) of Section 190.14, (b)
hereafter shall be granted pursuant to Paragraph (3) of Sub-
section (a) of Section 190.13 upon the death of a Eetired
Member theretofore retired pursuant to Subsection (a) of
Section 190.12, or (c) hereafter shall be granted pursuant to
Paragraph (4) of Subsection (a) of Section 190.13 upon the
death of a Retired Member theretofore retired pursuant to
Subsection (b) of Section 190.12, the amount of the pension
of any such Beneficiary, (I) if the amount thereof which
shall be payable to such Beneficiary were to be more than the
amount of the pension which had been payable to such mem-
ber, shall include the percentage of any increase in the cost
of living which had been applied to the pension of such mem-
ber, or (II) if the amount thereof which shall be payable to
such Beneficiary were to be less than the amount of the pen-
sion which had been payable to such member, shall include
that portion of the percentage of any increase in the cost of
living which had been applied to the pension of such member
which shall be in the same ratio as the amount of the pension
which shall be payable to such Beneficiary shall bear to the
amount of the pension which had been payable to such mem-
ber, and the percentage of any increase or decrease in the
cost of living in excess of 2% per year which had been carried
over for such member as of the date of his death shall be
carried over for such Beneficiary if (I) hereof were to be
applicable or in the same ratio therein provided if (II) hereof
were to be applicable.
   (3) Whenever the pension of any qualified surviving spouse
hereafter shall be terminated pursuant to any provisions of
Subsection (a) of Section 190.13 and the pension thereafter
shall become payable on behalf of any minor child or children
or dependent child or children of the deceased member, the
amount of pension on behalf of such child or children shall
include that portion of the percentage of increase in the cost
of living which had been applied to the pension of such quali-
fied surviving spouse which shall be in the same ratio as the
amount of the pension which shall be payable on behalf of
such child or children shall bear to the amount of the pension
which had been payable to such qualified surviving spouse, and
the percentage of any increase or decrease in the cost of living
in excess of 2% per year which had been carried over for such
qualified surviving spouse as of the date of the termination of
his or her pension shall be carried over on behalf of such child
or children in the same ratio hereinabove provided.
   (D) The amount of the pension never shall be reduced, by
reason of the application thereto of the provisions of Section
190.14 or this section, to an amount less than the amount
3708              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 143

thereof payable pursuant to provisions of this Article other
than those of Section 190.14 and this section.
   (E) Section 190.14 hereafter shall be construed and applied
in accordance with this section as to each pension mentioned
in this section.

              Proposed Charter Amendment No. 3
   Article X V I I of the Charter of the City of Los Angeles
hereby is amended by adding Section 180.1 thereto and Article
X V I I I of said Charter hereby is amended by adding Section
190.071 thereto, to read:
   Sec. 180.1. From and after the effective date of this sec-
tion, the board, upon the terms and conditions and within the
limitations contained in those paragraphs of Section 180 re-
spectively entitled "Common Stocks" and "Preferred
Stocks", may invest up to but not exceeding fifty percent of
each of the two funds created and established by Section 186,
determined on a cost basis, in equity-type securities such as
common stocks or preferred stocks but not limited thereto
and, as to any such securities, Section 180 shall be construed
and applied in accordance with this section.
   Sec. 190.071. Increased Limitation For Investment in
Equity-type Securities.
   From and after the effective date of this section, the
Board, upon the terms and conditions and within the limita-
tions contained in those paragraphs of Section 190.07 respec-
tively entitled "Common Stocks" and "Preferred Stocks",
may invest up to but not exceeding fifty percent of each of the
two funds created and establishd by Section 190.06, deter-
mined on a cost basis, in equity-type securities such as com-
mon stocks or preferred stocks but not limited thereto and, as
to any such securities, Section 190.07 shall be construed and
applied in accordance with this section.

              Proposed Charter Amendment No. 4
   Section 349 of the Charter of the City of Los Angeles is
hereby amended to read as follows:
   Sec. 349. The budget as adopted by the Council shall
forthwith be transmitted by the City Clerk to the Mayor upon
whose approval and signature it shall become effective. If the
Mayor shall fail to act upon the budget within five (5) days
after its adoption by the Council, it shall be signed by the City
Clerk and shall thereupon become effective. If the Mayor shall
disapprove of any increase, decrease, omission or insertion of
any item or items of the budget by the Council, he may veto,
restore or otherwise change any such item or items to the
amount originally proposed by him or to any amount between
that originally proposed by him and that adopted by the
Council. The Mayor, however, shall have no power to change
any description or limitation made applicable to an item by
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 143]                REGULAR SESSION                3709
the Council except to veto such change or to restore the de-
scription or limitation to the condition originally proposed by
him. Upon completion of such changes as he determines
proper, the Mayor shall return the budget to the Council with
a statement of his action. Within five (5) days thereafter the
Council may overcome such action of the Mayor relative to
any item or items of the budget by a two-thirds vote of all its
members, whereupon the budget shall be signed by the City
Clerk and shall become effective.

                Proposed Charter Amendment No. 5
   The Charter of the City of Los Angeles is hereby amended
by repealing Section 508.01 and amending subsection A of
Section 508 thereof to read as follows:
  A. Every member shall be retired on the first day of the
calendar month next succeeding that month in which he shall
have reached the age of seventy (70) years, provided that no
member occupying an elective office for a fixed term shall be
so retired until the expiration of the last term to which such
member may be so elected.

                Proposed Charter Amendment No. 6
   The Charter of the City of Los Angeles is hereby amended
by amending subsection (e) of Section 140, subdivision (2) of
subsection (e) of Section 146, Section 238.9 and subsection D
of Section 240 thereof to read as follows:
   (e) All such franchises, permits and leases shall be granted
subject to such terms and conditions and such rental or com-
pensation as may be prescribed therein and to the limitations,
conditions, restrictions and reservations in this charter con-
tained. Every such franchise, permit or lease for a definite
period of time shall be made by order. Every order granting
any such franchise, permit or lease for a period of five years
or less shall be published once in the same manner as ordi-
nances of said city, and shall take effect upon such publica-
tion. Every order granting any such franchise, permit or lease
for a period of more than five years shall, before the same
shall become effective, be submitted to the Council for its ap-
proval or disapproval. Action must be taken thereon by the
Council within sixty days after such order shall have been
submitted to it. If the Council shall approve the same such
order shall thereupon be published once in the same manner
as ordinances of said city; or, if the Council shall fail to dis-
approve any such order within said sixty days, such order
shall thereupon be published once in the same manner as ordi-
nances of said city. Every such order, when published, shall,
before the same becomes effective, be subject to the referendum
provisions of this charter relating to ordinances.
   Every such franchise, permit or lease shall provide for a
readjustment of the rental or compensation at least every ten
3?l0               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 143

years during the term thereby created, upon such procedure
as shall be specified in such franchise, permit or lease.
   Subd. (2) Certified copies of such order shall be transmitted
to the offices of the Mayor and of the City Clerk, and the City
Clerk shall forthwith present the said order to the Council.
At any time within such period as may be specified in said
order, which shall be not less than sixty days from and after
the receipt of such certified copies at such offices, respectively,
the Mayor, by writing, or the Council, by majority vote, may
disapprove such order. If neither the Mayor nor the Council
shall so disapprove said order within the period so specified,
said order shall thereupon be published once in the same man-
ner as ordinances of the city. If the Mayor shall disapprove
said order within said period, he shall forthwith advise the
Council and the Board of Harbor Commissioners, in writing,
of such disapproval. The Council shall thereupon consider such
disapproval in the same manner as upon the reconsideration
of an ordinance notwithstanding the veto of the Mayor, and if
upon such consideration the Council shall, by the votes of two-
thirds of the whole Council, determine that the Mayor's disap-
proval should be overruled, such disapproval by the Mayor
shall be of no effect, and the said order of the Board of Harbor
Commissioners shall thereupon be published once in the same
manner as ordinances of the city.
    Sec. 238.9. All such franchises, permits, licenses and leases
 shall be granted and entered into subject to such terms and
 conditions and such rentals or compensation as the Board in
 its discretion may prescribe. Every such franchise, permit,
license or lease granted or entered into for a definite period
 of time shall be made by order and if made for a period of
five (5) years or less such order shall be published once in the
same manner as ordinances of said city, and shall take effect
upon such publication. If made for a longer period than five
years the same shall be submitted to the Council for its ap-
proval or disapproval. Action must be taken thereon by the
Council within sixty (60) days after such franchise, permit,
license or lease shall have been submitted to it. If the Council
shall approve the same, the order granting such franchise, per-
mit, license or lease shall thereupon be published once in the
same manner as ordinances of the city; if the Council shall fail
to disapprove any such franchise, permit, license or lease
within said period of sixty days, the order granting such fran-
chise, permit, license or lease shall thereupon be published
once in the same manner as ordinances of said city. Every such
order granting a franchise, permit, license or lease for a period
of time greater than five years shall, before the same becomes
effective, be subject to the referendum provisions of this
charter relating to ordinances.
  No such franchise, permit, license or lease shall be made for
a term or period greater than fifty (50) years, and the same
shall be subject to a readjustment of the rental or compensa-
                    1969
Kes   Ch. 143]             REGULAR SESSION                   3711

tion at least every ten (10) years during the term thereof
upon such procedure as shall be prescribed in the instrument
granting such franchise, permit, license or lease.

  Subsection D. Proceedings for Authorizing Bonds.
   1. "Whenever the Department shall propose to exercise the
power to borrow money or to refund indebtedness pursuant
to this Section 240 the Board shall adopt a resolution author-
izing the issuance of bonds for such purpose.
   2. Certified copies of such resolution shall be transmitted to
the offices of the Mayor and of the City Clerk, and the City
Clerk shall forthwith present the said resolution to the Council.
At any time within such period as may be specified in said
resolution, which shall be not less than 60 days from and after
the receipt of such certified copies at such offices, respectively,
the Mayor, by writing, or the Council, by majority vote, may
disapprove such resolution. If neither the Mayor nor the Coun-
cil shall so disapprove said resolution within the period so
specified, said resolution shall thereupon be published once in
the same manner as ordinances of the City. If the Mayor shall
disapprove said resolution within said period, he shall forth-
with advise the Council and the Board, in writing, of such
disapproval. The Council shall thereupon consider such dis-
approval in the same manner as upon the reconsideration of
an ordinance notwithstanding the veto of the Mayor and, if,
upon such consideration, the Council shall by the votes, of two
thirds of the whole Council, determine that the Mayor's dis-
approval should be overruled, such disapproval by the Mayor
shall be of no effect, and the said resolution of the Board shall
thereupon be published once in the same manner as ordinances
of the City.
    3. Anything in the preceding subparagraphs of this sub-
section notwithstanding, in the cases of (a) refunding bonds
 or (b) notes or other evidences of indebtedness, which are to
 be issued pursuant to subsection L of this Section 240, the
 resolution of the Board adopted pursuant to paragraph 1 of
 this subsection shall upon its adoption by the Board be forth-
 with published once in the same manner as ordinances of the
 City and the transmission of such resolution to the offices of
 the Mayor and City Clerk shall be for information only and
 it shall not be subject to the disapproval by the mayor or
 Council; provided, however, that any such resolution may,
 by its terms, be made subject to disapproval by the Mayor
 or Council with the effect provided in paragragh 2 of this
 subsection.
    4. Every such resolution, adopted by the Board pursuant to
 any of the preceding paragraphs of this subsection shall, when
 published, be subject to the right of referendum before the
 same shall become effective. At any time within 30 days after
 such publication a referendary petition, demanding the sub-
 mission of such resolution to a vote of the qualified electors of
      117—1954
 3712              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 143

 the City for their assent to the issuance of the therein proposed
bonds, may be filed with the City Clerk. Except as in this
 Section 240 otherwise expressly provided, all of the provisions
of this Charter relating to referendum with respect to ordi-
nances shall apply to any referendum under the provisions of
this subsection. Upon presentation to the Council by the City
 Clerk of a referendary petition, the resolution which is the
subject thereof shall be of no effect unless and until the same
shall have been assented to by the voters.
   5. If no such referendary petition is presented within the
aforesaid period of 30 days, then upon the expiration of said
period, or, if the resolution of the Board adopted pursuant to
paragraph 1 of this subsection shall have been assented to by
the voters upon referendum pursuant to this subsection, then
upon such resolution having been so assented to, the said reso-
lution shall take full and final effect and the Board may pro-
ceed in accord with the provisions of this Section 240 and
issue bonds as provided for by said resolution; provided, how-
ever, that if the resolution shall have been assented to by the
voters upon referendum pursuant to this subsection, the reso-
lution may, in the discretion of the Board, be amended to
change the date of the bonds and the date or dates of maturity
of each issue or series of bonds and all other dates which
depend upon the above dates, and when so amended the said
resolution shall take full and final effect and the Board may
proceed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 240
and issue bonds as provided by said amended resolution.

              Proposed Charter Amendment No. 7
    The Charter of the City of Los Angeles is hereby amended
 by amending Section 73 thereof to read as follows -.
    Sec. 73. The members of each of the boards referred to in
 Section 70 and the members of the Board of Zoning Adjust-
 ment referred to in Section 98^ shall be appointed, and may
 be removed by the Mayor, subject in both appointment and
 removal to the approval of the Council by a majority vote.
   "Within forty-five (45) days from the expiration of the term
 for which such member was appointed the Mayor shall appoint
 and submit for the approval of the Council such member, or a
new member, for the next ensuing term on the board to which
such member was appointed for the term which has expired.
 In the case of a vacancy in the office of a member of any of the
boards referred to in Sections 70 and 98J, the Mayor shall
within forty-five (45) days from the commencement of such
vacancy appoint and submit for the approval by the Council
a member to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term in office
created by the vacancy.
   If the Council does not disapprove the appointment by the
Mayor of a member as provided in this section within forty-
five (45) days after the submission by the Mayor of such ap-
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 1431                REGULAR SESSION                   3713

pointment to the Council for its approval as provided in sub-
section (4) of Section 40, the appointment shall be deemed
approved by the Council. If the Council disapproves an ap-
pointment made by the Mayor, the Mayor shall make and sub-
mit to the Council for its approval a new appointment to the
office involved within forty-five (45) days of the disapproval
by the Council of the previous appointment. Bach subsequent
disapproval of an appointment by the Mayor to the office shall
create a new forty-five (45) day period as aforesaid.
   In the event the Mayor fails to make an appointment and
submit the same to the Council within any of the forty-five
 (45) day periods provided in this section, the President of the
Council shall upon the expiration thereof and within the ensu-
ing forty-five (45) days appoint and submit to the Council for
its approval an appointment to the office to which the Mayor
has failed to make an appointment as provided in this section.
In the case of such appointment by the President of the Coun-
cil, he shall file with the Council his certificate substantially in
the form required of the Mayor under subdivision (4) of Sec-
tion 40. If the Council does not disapprove the apointment
made by the President of the Council within forty-five (45)
days after submission by him as provided in this section, the
appointment shall be deemed approved by the Council.
   If the Council disapproves the appointment made by the
President of the Council within the forty-five day period, the
President of the Council shall make a new appointment to the
office involved within forty-five (45) days of the disapproval
by the Council of the previous appointment. Bach subsequent
disapproval of an appointment made by the President of the
Council shall create a new forty-five (45) day period as afore-
said.
   Upon failure of the President of the Council to make an ap-
pointment and submit such appointment to the Council for its
approval as provided in this section, such appointment shall be
made by the Council, by resolution, within forty-five (45) days
from the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period within
which the President of the Council failed to act.

                Proposed Charter Amendment No. 8
   The Charter of the City of Los Angeles is hereby amended
by amending Section 111 thereof to read as follows:
  Sec. 111. The provisions of this Article shall apply to all
departments, divisions and offices of the city government in-
cluding therein all employees of the city, except that the fol-
lowing shall be exempt therefrom, to wit:
  All officers elected by the people.
  All members of the several boards.
  Members of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
  The secretary to the Mayor and such other persons em-
ployed in positions established by the Council in the Office of
3714               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 143

 the Mayor, except clerks, stenographers and secretaries other
 than the secretary to the Mayor.
    Such persons employed in positions established by the
  Council for the purpose of assisting the members of the Coun-
 cil in the performance of their duties, except clerks, stenog-
 raphers, secretaries and administrative analysts.
    The Chief deputy of the Controller.
    The City Superintendent of Schools and assistants and
 deputies, and all teachers and employees in the School De-
 partment.
    The assistants, deputies, clerks and stenographers of the
 City Attorney.
    The General Manager who is the Chief Engineer of the
 Department of Water and Power, and two deputies of said
 General Manager; provided that if the work of that Depart-
 ment be divided into two bureaus as provided elsewhere in
 this Charter, then there shall be exempted the General Man-
 ager who is the Chief Engineer of the Bureau of Water Works
 and Supply and the General Manager who is the Chief Elec-
 trical Engineer of the Bureau of Power and Light, and a
 Deputy of the General Manager of each of the two Bureaus.
    The Auditor and the Cashier of the Department of Water
 and Power.
    Four persons employed to render services in the Depart-
 ment of Water and Power as assistants or deputies, at a posi-
 tion level in any supervisory line of authority in said
 Department higher than any position existing under the
 classified civil service in said line of authority, or as members
 of the staff of the General Manager of that department, or as
 they may be divided by action of the Board of Water and
 Power Commissioners between the respective General Man-
agers if the work of that department be divided into two
 bureaus; provided that each such person must, at the inception
 of such exempt employment, hold a position in the Department
of Water and Power under the classified civil service pro-
visions of this charter, and must have held one or more such
position for an aggregate period of fifteen years or more, and
provided further that the exemption of each such person shall
be declared by the Board of Water and Power Commissioners.
    The General Manager of the Department of Airports.
   The City Administrative Officer and two Assistant City Ad-
ministrative Officers.
   The Traffic Manager and the Port Warden of the Harbor
Department.
   The Inspector of Public Works.
   All physicians appointed by the Health Board other than
those employed on a regular full-time permanent basis.
   All physicians appointed on or after January 1, 1955, to
render services in the Department of Water and Power; pro-
vided that such appointments shall be without prejudice to
those appointed subject to this article before said date.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 143]               REGULAR SESSION                  3715

   All officers of election.
   Persons specially employed by the City Clerk, as author-
ized by the provisions of Section 305 hereof, to assist in the
conduct of any election.
   The Police Surgeon and assistant police surgeons.
   All employees of Advisory Borough Boards.
   Persons or positions elsewhere specifically exempted by the
provisions of this charter.
   Persons employed to render professional, scientific, tech-
nical or expert services of an exceptional character upon the
request of the head of the department, division or office in
which such persons are to be employed, approved by resolu-
tion of the Council, and by the Board of Civil Service Com-
missioners.
   Any of the following may be exempted from the provisions
of this article upon the request of the head of the department,
division or office in which they are employed, by order of the
Board of Civil Service Commissioners, approved by the Coun-
cil by resolution, to wit: (a) persons employed as the first and
second deputies where not exempt as above provided; (b)
positions of unskilled laborers, including drivers; (c) posi-
tions, the occupants of which are workmen, mechanics or
craftsmen (including foremen) employed exclusively as such
on the construction of public works, improvements or build-
ings; (d) any position requiring the services of one individual
for not more than half time and paying a salary not to exceed
three-fourths of the monthly rate established by the salary
fixing authority of such department, division or office for
entering level clerical positions. Any exemption made under
the provisions of this paragraph may be terminated at any
time by resolution of the Board of Civil Service Commis-
sioners.
   Each and every person exempted by or pursuant to the
provisions of this section or occupying a position exempted by
the provisions of this section shall, during the period of such
exempt employment, be considered as being on leave of ab-
sence from the classified civil service if at the time of such
exemption he holds a position in the classified civil service, or
is entitled to hold a position therein, and shall continue, dur-
ing such period, to accrue seniority credit the same as though
serving in the position in the classified civil service from which
he is deemed to be on leave.

                Proposed Charter Amendment No. 9
  Sub-section 6 of Section 229 of the Charter of the City of
Los Angeles is hereby amended to read as follows:
  Sub-sec. 6. Determination and limitation of amounts of is-
sues.
  Subd. (a). Whenever the Department shall exercise the
power to borrow money, or to refund indebtedness, pursuant
to this section 229, the Board shall by resolution determine
3716               STATUTES O F CALIPORNIA          [Ues. Ch.   143

 the amount or amounts required for the purposes for which
 the money is to be borrowed or required for such refunding.
     Subd. (b). "Whenever the Department shall exercise the
 power to borrow money pursuant to this section 229 the Board
 may authorize the issuance of bonds in any amount determined
 pursuant to subdivision (a) next above; provided that no
 bonds so authorized shall be issued unless the amount of the
 surplus (including surplus arising from contributions in aid
 of construction), as of the end of the last fiscal year which
 ended not less than four months prior to the making, with
 reference to the bonds so to be issued, of the finding and
 determination provided for in clause (1) of subdivision (a)
 of subsection 16 of this section 229, derived from the opera-
 tion o fthe works to which pertains the revenue fund out of
 which the bonds so authorized are to be payable, equals at
 least seventy per cent (70%) of the aggregate of the three
 following amounts, (i) the amount of the bonds to be so issued,
  (ii) the amount of the bonds of teh Department outstanding
 at the time of the acceptance of a proposal for the purchase
 of the bonds so authorized and payable out of that revenue
 fund, and (iii) the amount of the bonds of the City outstand-
 ing at that time and serviced out of that revenue fund.
     Subd. (c). The limitation prescribed in subdivision (b) of
 this subsection 6 shall not be applicable to the issuance of any
 refuding bonds pursuant to this section 229, and the amount
 of any issue of such refunding bonds may equal, but shall
 not exceed, the amount required for the payment or redemp-
 tion of the bonds to be refunded thereby, including the
 premiums, if any, due upon such redemption, but excluding
any interest due upon such redemption.
    Subd. ( d ) . The limitation prescribed in subdivision (b) of
this subsection 6 shall not be applicable to the issuance of any
bonds whenever the proposition of such issuance shall have
been assented to by the voters.
    Subd. (e). Any bond for the payment and discharge of
which, upon maturity or upon redemption prior to maturity,
provision has been made through the setting apart in a reserve
fund or special trust account created pursuant to subsection
10 of this section 229 to insure the payment thereof, of moneys
sufficient for that purpose, or through the irrevocable segrega-
tion for that purpose, in some sinking fund or other fund or
trust account, of moneys sufficient therefor, shal Ibe deemed
to be no longer outstanding within the meaning of any provi-
sion of this section 229.

             Proposed Charter Amendment No. 10
   Paragraph (6) of Section 220 of the Charter of The City
of Los Angeles is hereby amended to read as follows:
   (6) To lease, for a term not exceeding five years, any or
all of the lands under its control for agricultural or other pur-
poses, which shall not conflict with the beneficial uses of said
lands by the city for the purposes for which they are held by
                     1969
Res. Ch. 143]               HEGXJLAR SESSION                 3717

the board; and, except as otherwise provided in this charter,
to sell, from time to time, such personal property, placed under
its control, as shall not be longer necessary or suitable for the
use of such department. The board shall have the right, in
conjunction with the joint use of poles, pole facilities, or un-
derground utility trenches or facilities, with other utilities
owning and maintaining poles, pole facilities, or underground
utility trenches or facilities, to buy, sell or lease interests in
poles, pole facilities, or underground utility trenches or facili-
ties, owned or controlled by said other utilities or by said
board, and to contract with said utilities for the construction
of said poles, pole facilities or underground utility trenches or
facilities. Any such contract may provide for a sharing of the
capital charges and other obligations associated therewith. No
real property nor any rights or interests in real property held
by said board shall be sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of,
or in any manner withdrawn from its control, save as above
provided, unless by written instrument duly authorized by
ordinance of the city and a resolution of the board, and duly
executed by the city and the board, and subject to the provi-
sions of Section 219.

   We further certify that we have compared the text of the
foregoing amendments with the original proposals submitting
the same to the electors of said city and find that the foregoing
are full, true, correct, complete and exact copies thereof, and
of each of them. That as to all of said amendments, this cer-
tificate shall be taken as a full and complete certification of
the regularity of all proceedings had and done in connection
therewith.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
have caused the corporate seal of the City of Los Angeles to
be affixed hereto this 16th day of April 1969.

                                L . E . TlMBERLAKE
  (SEAL)                        President of the Council of the
                                  City of Los Angeles
                                R E X E. LAYTON
                                City Clerk of the City of
                                  Los Angeles
and
   WHEREAS, The said proposed amendments as ratified as
hereinbefore set forth have been and are now duly presented
and submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for
approval or rejection as a whole without the power of altera-
tion in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Con-
stitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate concurring, a majority of all of the members elected to
each house voting therefor and concurring therein, That said
amendments to the Charter of the City of Los Angeles as pro-
3718               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Res. C h . 1 4 4

posed to and adopted and ratified by the electors of said city,
and as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same are hereby
approved as a whole, without amendment or alteration, for
and as amendments to and as a part of the Charter of the
said City of Los Angeles.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 144
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 147—Relative
                to the death of Paul Claiborne.
                [Piled with Secretary of State May 5, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t was with profound sorrow that the members
 learned of the death of Paul Claiborne, a longtime civic leader
 in Placer County and Sacramento County, on April 13, 1969;
 and
   WHEREAS, He was born in Indiana on March 3, 1902, came
to California with his parents, Luther and Rachel Claiborne,
in 1904, attended schools in Placer County while working on
various jobs, including, with his younger brother, Silas, all the
paper routes in Roseville for the Sacramento Bee, Sacramento
Union, San Francisco Chronicle, and San Francisco Examiner;
and
   WHEREAS, After graduating from Heald's Business College
in Sacramento, he served in various capacities with Bradstreet
 Company (later named Dun & Bradstreet), Retailer's Credit
Association of Sacramento, Henning Advertising Service, and
 Equitable Life Assurance Society of New York, and opened
an agency called "Sorenson & Claiborne" in North Sacra-
mento for Star cars; and
   WHEREAS, In 1926, he returned to the Retailer's Credit
Association in Auburn, and promptly became active in nearly
every civic project; and
   WHEREAS, He organized the Placer Savings and Loan Asso-
ciation in 1946 to encourage thrift and help people obtain a
home of their own and served as its president and chairman of
the board until his death; and
   WHEREAS, Highly respected by the business community, he
has served as an officer in various business organizations,
including the Associated Credit Bureau of California, Retailers
Credit Association of Placer County, California State Collec-
tion Agency Board, Sacramento Chapter of the American
Society of Appraisers, Placer County Insurance Agents Asso-
ciation, California Real Estate Board, Placer County Board of
Realtors, and Auburn Chamber of Commerce; and
   WHEREAS, Generous with his time and leadership in serving
the community, he held membership in numerous civic and
service organizations, including the Eureka Lodge No. 16,
Masonic Lodge, Scottish and York Rite Bodies, Ben Ali Tern-
                       1969
Ees. Ch. 1451                 REGULAR SESSION                   3719
pie of Shrine, Fraternal Order of Eagles, Lodge No. 1691 of
B.P.O. Elks, Navy League of the United States, Eotary Club,
American Eed Cross, and Tahoe Area Boy Scouts Council;
and
   WHEREAS, He founded the 20-30 International Club in 1922
in Sacramento " t o develop, by precept and example, a more
intelligent, aggressive, and serviceable citizenship; to provide
a practical means of forming enduring friendships, of render-
ing altruistic service, and of building better communities";
and
   WHEREAS, The words of President Nixon on learning of
Paul Claiborne's death, clearly state the feelings of his many
friends—"We have lost a dear, old friend and no words could
convey how deeply he will be missed"; and
   WHEREAS, He is survived by his wife, Mary, whom he mar-
ried in 1921; his son Paul, J r . ; two daughters, Mrs. Merrilee
Clark and Mrs. Joycelyn Aronsen; and eight grandchildren;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their
deepest regret of the passing of this distinguished civic leader
and extend their sincere condolences to Mrs. Mary Claiborne
and to his family; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Mrs. Mary Clai-
borne.

                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 145

Assembly    Concurrent Resolution No. 162—Relative             to the
             death of Assemblyman Alan G. Pattee.
                [Piled with Secretary of State May 5, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, It was with great sadness and profound regret
that the Members of the Legislature learned of the tragic death
of their good friend and distinguished colleague, Alan G.
Pattee; and
   WHEREAS, A dairy and livestock rancher, Alan Pattee was
first elected to the Assembly in 1954 by the people of Monterey
County; and
   WHEREAS, A S a Member of the Legislature he proved to be
a man of integrity and dignity, an opponent to be respected
and an ally to be valued, a skilled parliamentarian who pos-
sessed a keen and active mind, and, above all, a dedicated
public servant who thrived upon work; and
   WHEREAS, These qualities, plus his great personal charm
and friendliness, were not lost upon the voters of his district
who returned him to office a total of seven times through the
years; and
3720               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [~ReS. Ch. 146

   WHEREAS, During his long tenure in the California Legis-
lature he served on many committees and was the author of a
variety of statutes covering all subjects, but his great love was
in the land, and, as the Chairman of the Assembly Agricultural
Committee, Alan Pattee became the champion of California
agriculture; and
   WHEREAS, A man of unusually broad civic and community
interests, he was a member of the Elks, Moose, and Eotary
Clubs, the Salinas Chamber of Commerce, the Monterey County
Dairy and Cattlemen's Association, and the Farms Bureau, a
director of the Seventh District Agricultural Association, and
Chairman of the County Tax Association, the Monterey County
Eepublican Central Committee, and the Eepublican County
Chairmen's Association of the State Eepublican Committee;
and
   WHEREAS, While he has passed from this life, Alan Pattee,
by his exemplary record of service to the people of this state,
has left a rich legacy to serve as an inspiration and guide to
all those who shall follow after him; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Members of the California
Legislature mourn the untimely passing of their distinguished
colleague and friend, Assemblyman Alan G. Pattee, and ex-
press their deepest condolences to his widow and children; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to his widow, Inge-
borg Pattee, to his daughters, Susan Bnglund and Barbara
Shields, and his son, Harry Pattee, and to his brother, W.
Burleigh Pattee.

               EESOLUTION CIIAPTEE 146
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 43—Relating to a study of
  tenure in the University of California, the California State
  Colleges, and the public junior colleges.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 7, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The laws and administrative regulations govern-
ing the University of California, the California State Colleges,
and the public junior colleges in California establish rules for
the appointment, reappointment, dismissal, and demotion of
academic personnel; and
  WHEREAS, Taken as a whole, those rules establish privileges
of tenure for full-time faculty in regular rank; and
  WHEREAS, There is a wide spectrum of opinion regarding
the value and effect of tenure in the "University of California,
the California State Colleges, and the public junior colleges;
and
                       1969
Res. Ch. 147]                 REGULAR SESSION                  3721
   WHEREAS, Questions are now raised about the objectives and
effects of tenure in the University of California, the California
State Colleges, and the public junior colleges; and
   WHEREAS, Current events in higher education require an
immediate review of this subject so that the laws and adminis-
trative regulations may be kept current with changing circum-
stances; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Legislature hereby directs the
Coordinating Council for Higher Education to study the cur-
rent rules of tenure in the University of California, the Cali-
fornia State Colleges, and the public junior colleges; compare
such rules of tenure in public and private institutions of higher
education in California and in other states; state the objectives
of tenure; and set forth policy alternatives to achieve those
objectives; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Legislature hereby directs the Coordinat-
ing Council for Higher Education to report on the subject of
this resolution as soon as possible but not later than May 8,
1969; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate shall transmit
copies of this resolution to the members of the Coordinating
Council for Higher Education.


                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 147
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 88—Relative to proclaim-
  ing the week of April 27-May 3, 1969, as "Canada-United
  States Goodwill Week."
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 7, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, For more than a century, two of the greatest na-
tions in the world, the United States and Canada, have enjoyed
a close and lasting friendship, and the year 1969 will mark the
102nd aninversary of Canada as a nation and the 152nd an-
niversary of the Rush-Bagot Agreement which demilitarized
the boundary between these two nations; and
   WHEREAS, The Rush-Bagot Agreement established permissi-
ble armament levels for each nation on the Great Lakes, and
was proclaimed by President Monroe on April 28, 1818, to be
effective as of April 28, 1817, the date of an exchange of notes
between Richard Rush, an American lawyer and diplomat who
was Acting Secretary of State for the United States, and Sir
Charles Bagot, a British diplomat and administrator who was
Minister to the United States; and
   WHEREAS, TWO nations, growing greater each decade, have
given a bright example to the nations of a world growing
smaller each decade as measured by communication and trans-
portation by forever distinguishing themselves by neutraliza^
3722               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [JJ es _ Qh. 148

 tion of the Great Lakes and avoidance of hostile fortification to
the end that today a feeling of high regard, mutual respect,
 and goodwill pervades the relationship between the nations;
 and
     WHEREAS, In 1922, Kiwanis International instituted the ob-
 servance of "Canadian-United States D a y s " to celebrate the
 Eush-Bagot Agreement and the enduring friendship of our
nations, and this observance is now known as ' ' Canada-United
 States Goodwill Week" and is observed each year by Kiwanis
 Clubs throughout the land through efforts to inform people
 on life in our neighboring country, demonstrations of friend-
 liness toward our neighbors themselves, and efforts to improve
 understanding between the two great pioneering nations of
 Kiwanis; and
    WHEREAS, The spirit of friendship existing between the
 United States and Canada was best expressed in the last public
 address of President Warren G. Harding when he said:
       " W h a t an object lesson of peace is shown by our two
    countries to all the world. No grim-faced fortifications mark
    our frontiers, no huge battleships patrol our dividing waters,
    no stealthy spies lurk in our tranquil border hamlets. Only
     a scrap of paper, recording hardly more than a simple un-
     derstanding, safeguards lives and properties on the Great
    Lakes, and only humble mileposts mark the inviolable bound-
    ary line for thousands of miles through farm and forest. Our
    protection is in our fraternity, our armor is our faith, and
    the tie that binds more firmly year after year is ever-increas-
    ing acquaintanceship and comradeship through interchange
    of citizens; and the compact is not of perishable parchment
    but of fair and honorable dealing, which, God grant, shall
    continue for all t i m e ' ' ;
now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of April 27-May 3, 1969, as
' ' Canada-United States Goodwill Week,'' and urge the citizens
of California to observe the anniversary of the Rush-Bagot
Agreement and the everlasting and historic friendship it has
created between the citizens of our great nation and Canada;
and be it further
    Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to Governor Reagan and suitably prepared
copies to Kiwanis International and the Kiwanis Club of South
Sacramento.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 148
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 94—Relative to National
  Defense Transportation Day and National   Transportation
  Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 7, 1969.]
                        1969
Res. Ch. 149]                  REGtfLAR SESSION                3723

   WHEREAS, Transportation is a vital modern-day network
steeped in the history of the "Conestoga" and the " I r o n
Horse" in the days of our westward expansion up to our
present-day supersonic jets, and this transportation system
helps keep the wheels of commerce and industry turning, and
makes us the most mobile society in the history of the world;
and
   WHEREAS, Our personal, commercial, and economic lives, as
well as our national defense, are dependent upon efficient, mod-
ern, and rapid transportation; and
   WHEREAS, The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 22 of
May 16, 1957 (71 Stat. 30), has requested the President to
proclaim annually the third Friday of May of each year as
National Defense Transportation Day, and by House Joint
Resolution 628 of May 14, 1962 (76 Stat. 69), has requested
the President to proclaim annually the week of May in which
that Friday falls as National Transportation Week, as a tribute
to the men and women who, working night and day, move the
goods and people throughout our land; and
   WHEREAS, The President has designated Friday, May 16,
1969, as National Defense Transportation Day, and the week
beginning May 11, 1969, as National Transportation Week;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members urge all Cali-
f ornians to participate, with representatives of the transporta-
tion industry, our armed services and state and local agencies,
in the observance of these occasions through appropriate cere-
monies ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Governor is hereby requested to proclaim
the week beginning May 11, 1969, as California Transporta-
tion Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor of the State of California.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 149
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 98—Relative to proclaiming
  May 4 to May 10, 1969, the 55th National Be Kind to Ani-
  mals Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 7, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, We have been endowed by our Creator not only
with the blessings and benefits of our animal friends who pro-
vide us clothing, food, and pleasure in life, but also with a
firm responsibility to protect the dumb creatures given us as
a sacred trust, and to show kindness and mercy to them in all
our affairs; and
3724              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [EeS. Ch. 150

   WHEREAS, The people of the State of California are deeply-
indebted to the animal anticruelty control and welfare agen-
cies for the invaluable contribution they make each year in
educating our children in humane principles, and in promot-
ing a true working spirit of kindness and consideration for
animals in the hearts and minds of all our people; and
   "WHEREAS, We recognize the timeless value of the teaching
of kindness to our young people through humane education,
and realize that out of kindness to dumb creatures grows kind-
ness and love for both man and God; and
   WHEREAS, The week of May 4 to 10, 1969, has been set as
the 55th annual celebration of the national week observing
the philosophy of kindness to animals; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the State of California, the Assembly thereof
concurring, That the members urge Governor Ronald Reagan
to proclaim the week of May 4 to 10, 1969, as the 55th Na-
tional Be Kind to Animals Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 150
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 155—
                  Relative to Dairy Month.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, June is the month when nature bestows upon us
her most nearly perfect weather; and
   WHEREAS, Milk is nature's most nearly perfect food; and
   WHEREAS, June is the time to enjoy to the fullest all of the
fine milk products found in California; and
   WHEREAS, Citizens of this state should be encouraged to use
milk and other dairy foods so that they may enjoy improved
health and increased prosperity; and
   WHEREAS, Her Majesty, the Dairy Cow, should be honored
for her daily work and dedicated contribution to the health
and prosperity of our state; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members urge Governor
Ronald Reagan to proclaim June to be Dairy Month; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the members urge civic and business or-
ganizations to cooperate in this observance; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably pre-
pared copy of this resolution to the California Dairy Industry.
Res   Ch 1511           1969
                               REGULAR SESSION                 3725

                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 151
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 163—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of Chico, County of Butte,
  State of California, voted for and ratified oy the qualified
  electors of said city at a general municipal election held
  therein on the eighth day of April, 1969.
                [Piled with Secretary of State May 9, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
purpose of adoption and ratification of certain amendments
hereinafter set forth to the Charter of the City of Chico, a
municipal corporation of the County of Butte, State of Cali-
fornia, as set forth in the certificate of the mayor and city
clerk of said city, as follows, to wit:

State of California, "j
County of Butte,      [ ss.
City of Chico.       J
   We, the undersigned, Gordon H. Casamajor, Mayor of the
City of Chico, and Barbara A. Evans, Clerk of the City of
Chico, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Chico in the County of Butte, State of
California, has at all times mentioned herein been, and now
is, a City of the State of California, containing a population
of more than thirty-five hundred (3500) inhabitants, and less
than fifty thousand (50,000) inhabitants, as ascertained by the
last preceding census taken under the authority of the Congress
of the United States of America, and ever since the 2nd day
of May, 1961, has been existing and acting under a freeholders
charter adopted under and by virtue of the provisions of Sec-
tion 8, Article X I of the Constitution of the State of Cali-
fornia, which charter was duly ratified by the qualified electors
of said City at an election held for that purpose on the 7th day
of June, 1960, and approved by the Legislature of the State of
California on the 16th day of January, 1961.
   That the legislative body of the said city, namely, the
 Council of said city, of its own motion did, pursuant to
the provisions of Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of
the State of California, by resolution adopted the 4th day of
February, 1969, and duly published in the manner and form
required by law, duly proposed to the qualified electors of the
City of Chico, certain amendments to the Charter of said City
and ordered that said amendments be submitted to the quali-
fied electors of said City on the 8th day of April. 1969, at the
General Municipal Election to be held in said City, the date
of which election is fixed by said Charter of the City of Chico
hereinbefore referred to, and which said date was fixed in
said resolution as the date for voting upon said amendments
proposed.
3726                  STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA       [BeS. Cll. 151

    That said proposed amendments, as set out in said resolu-
tion and as submitted at the said election, all as hereinafter
set out, were published and advertised in the manner and for
the time provided by law, in the Chico Enterprise-Eecord, a
daily newspaper of general circulation printed and published
in the City of Chico and having a general circulation therein,
said newspaper being the officially designated newspaper of
the City of Chico. That in all respects notice was given, pub-
lished and advertised in the manner and for the time required
by Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of the State of
California, the Charter of the City of Chico, and the Elections
 Code.
    That on March 4, 1969, the Council of the City of Chico
regularly adopted Ordinance No. 899, entitled " A n Ordinance
Ordering the Calling and Holding of a General Municipal
Election in the City of Chico and in Chico Unified School
District to be Held on April 8, 1969."
    That said election was duly held pursuant to said call on
April 8, 1969, which date was not less than forty (40) nor
more than sixty (60) days after the completion of the publi-
cation of said proposed amendments in the ' ' Chico Enterprise-
Eecord" as aforesaid, and a majority of the qualified electors
voting thereon voted in favor of said proposed amendments,
 as determined by a canvass of the returns of said election duly
 and regularly made by the Council of the City of Chico, and
 said Council did, by ^Resolution No. 102 68-69, duly and regu-
 larly adopted, declare the results of said election in so far as
 it concerned the proposed charter amendments, as determined
 from a canvass of the returns thereof, which result was as
 follows:
    Total ballots cast                                     3,002
    Total number of votes cast in favor of and against
      the several Charter amendments, were as follows:
                                                  Yes        No
  MEASURE (C) (Eepeal of Charter
       Sections 1009 and 1009.1)                2098        648
  MEASURE (D) (Amendment of Charter
       Section 1103)                            2287        454
  MEASURE (E) (Amendment of Charter
       Section 1104)                            1774      1064
  MEASURE ( F ) (Amendment of Charter
       Section 611)                             1954        738
  MEASURE (Q-) (Amendment of Charter
       Section 613)                             2080        653

   That the charter amendments so ratified by the qualified
electors of the City of Chico are now submitted to the Legis-
lature of the State of California for approval or rejection as
a whole, without power of alteration or amendment, in ac-
cordance with Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 151]              REGULAR SESSION                  3727
the State of California, and which is in words and figures as
follows:

    AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF CHICO

  That the Charter of the City of Chieo be amended by (a)
repealing Sections 1009 and 1009.1 thereof providing for the
appointment, powers and duties of a board of social service
commissioners and (b) amending Sections 1103, 1104, 611 and
613 thereof to read as follows:

    "Section 1103. Annual budget—Adoption; fixing of
                      tax rates.

   During the month of June, the council shall consider and
adopt a tentative budget. Final adoption shall be at the first
regular meeting in July, at which time the tax rates shall be
fixed."
           ' ' Section 1104. Funds and tax limits.
   There are hereby created the general, park, library, airport
and sidewalk tree funds, and the council shall levy and collect
annual taxes for these funds not in excess of the following
rates per $100.00 of assessed valuation:
  General                                               $1.25
  Park                                                    .35
  Library                                                 .20
  Airport                                                 .10
  Sidewalk Tree                                           .20"
         "Section 611. Ordinances and resolutions—
                  Adoption and publication.
   a. No ordinance, other than an emergency ordinance, shall
be adopted by the council within five (5) days after its intro-
duction, nor at other than a regular or an adjourned regular
meeting. At the time of introduction, an ordinance shall be-
come a part of the proceedings of said meeting in the custody
of the city clerk. An ordinance may be introduced by a read-
ing of its title only. Before adoption, it shall be read in full,
unless after reading the title thereof, a further reading is
waived by the unanimous consent of the couneilmen present,
which consent shall be established by a motion and a recorded
roll-call vote.
  b. An ordinance altered or amended after its introduction
and before adoption shall not be adopted within five (5) days
after such alteration or amendment. Such ordinance shall be
reread as altered or amended before adoption unless reread-
ing thereof is waived as provided in subsection (a) hereof.
Corrections of typographical or clerical errors which do not
change the intent expressed in the ordinance shall not be
deemed alterations or amendments within the meaning of this
subsection.
3728               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [KeS. Ch. 151

   c. Every ordinance must be published once in the official
newspaper of the city, or in such other form that it may be
sent to the voters. One copy of every ordinance introduced
shall be posted by the clerk within twenty-four (24) hours
after introductory reading on the public bulletin board in the
Municipal Building of the city.
   d. The clerk shall thereafter note on a posted copy any cor-
rections, alterations or amendments which may occur after the
time of the introductory reading.
   e. Failure of the clerk to post said ordinance or to make
corrections thereon as provided in subsections (c) and (d)
hereof, shall not affect the validity of any ordinance otherwise
regularly adopted.
  f. Where the council is authorized to act by a resolution,
such resolution shall be read in full, unless, after reading of
the title thereof, a further reading thereof is waived by a
unanimous vote of the councilmen present in the manner pro-
vided in subsection (a) hereof for waiver of reading of ordi-
nances in full."

            "Section 613.    Ordinances—Amendment.
   No ordinance shall be revised, re-enacted or amended by
reference to its title only; but the ordinance may be revised
or re-enacted, or the section, sections, or subsections thereof to
be amended, or the new section, sections, or subsections to be
added thereto shall be set forth at length as to the particular
section, sections, or subsection to be so revised, re-enacted or
adopted, and adopted in the method provided in Section 611
of this Charter. No ordinance or section or subsection thereof
shall be repealed except by an ordinance adopted in the man-
ner provided in this Charter, provided that an ordinance, sec-
tion or subsection thereof may be repealed by reference to the
number of the ordinance, section or subsection and to the
title of the ordinance or section."

  "We further certify that we have compared the foregoing
proposed and ratified amendments to the Charter of the City
of Chico with the original proposal submitting the same to the
electors of said City, and find that the foregoing is a full, true,
exact and correct copy thereof.
  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of Chico to be affixed hereto this
21st day of April, 1969.
                                   GORDON H.    CASAMAJOE
  (SEAL)                           Mayor of the City of Chico
                                  BARBARA A.     EVANS
                                   Clerk of the City of Chico
Approved:
GRAYSON PRICE,
  City Attorney
                      19M
Res. Ch. 152]               REGULAR SESSION                      3729

   WHEREAS, the proposed charter amendments, as ratified as
hereinabove set forth, have been and now are duly presented
and submitted to the Legislature of the State of California
for approval or rejection as a whole without power of altera-
tion or amendment, in accordance with Section 8, Article X I
of the Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all members elected to
each house voting therefor and concurring therein, That the
amendments to the Charter of the City of Chico as proposed
to and adopted and ratified by the electors of the city, as here-
inabove fully set forth, be, and the same are hereby approved
as a whole, without alterations or amendment, for and as an
amendment to, and as part of the Charter of the City of Chico.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 152
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 125—Relative to pro-
  claiming the week of May 4th to 10th as Council for Excep-
  tional Children Week.
                [Filed wltli Secretary of State May 12, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The 19th Annual Conference of the California
State Federation of the Council for Exceptional Children will
be held in San Diego the week of May 4th to May 10th; and
   WHEREAS, The Council for Exceptional Children is engaged
in various activities to advance the education of exceptional
children, who are the gifted, mentally retarded, deaf, speech
and hearing handicapped, the orthopedically, visually, emo-
tionally, and educationally handicapped; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature has recognized the needs of ex-
ceptional children with many programs of support, yet, at
the same time, is aware of the limitations of those programs
and of the remaining needs which have not been served; and
   WHEREAS, The Council for Exceptional Children is the one
statewide and nationwide professional organization which is
dealing with the entire spectrum of exceptional abilities; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to issue a proclamation designating the week of May 4th
to 10th as "Council for Exceptional Children W e e k " ; and be
it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.
3730              STATUSES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ R e s . Oh. 153

               RESOLUTION CHAPTEE 153
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 137—Relative                  to
                 Columbian Squires Week.
               [Filed with Secretary of State May 12, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Columbian Squires is a national fraternal or-
ganization of Catholic boys between the ages of 13 and 18,
sponsored by the Knights of Columbus affiliates of the National
Council of Catholic Youth; and
   WHEREAS, I t is the purpose of the Columbian Squires to as-
sist youth of high school age to develop leadership and good
character through a fourfold program of spiritual, civic-cul-
tural, social, and athletic activities; and
   WHEREAS, The first local circle of the Columbian Squires
was organized in 1925 in Duluth, Minnesota, and the organiza-
tion has grown since that time to include circles throughout
the United States, serving thousands of young men; and
   WHEREAS, The program of the Columbian Squires has
helped, and continues to help, mold young men into well-
rounded and mature citizens who contribute to their commu-
nities ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Members request the Gov-
ernor to issue a proclamation designating the week of May 4
to 10 as "Columbian Squires Week" throughout the state; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 154
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 166—Relating to com-
  mending Thomas A. Moloney on his distinguished career of
  public service.
            [Filed with Secretary of State May 12, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature have learned that
Thomas A. Maloney, esteemed former Assemblyman and State
Senator, will celebrate his 80th birthday on May 22, 1969; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Maloney began his service to the State of
California in 1924 when he was elected to the State Senate and
continued to hold office for 32 years, being elected to the As-
sembly after the reapportionment plan for State Senators oc-
curred in 1932; and
  WHEREAS, His abilities were widely recognized and he was
elected Speaker pro Tempore of the Assembly in 1943, and
performed the duties of that office with skill and distinction
for 14 years; and
                     1969
Res. Ch. 155]               REGULAR SESSION                     3731

   "WHEREAS, '' Tommy," as he was known by his many friends,
worked diligently in behalf of the people of the State of Cali-
fornia and specifically for those disadvantaged groups that
needed a spokesman of his unquestioned stature; and
   WHEREAS, Of all the creative and constructive legislation
that he spearheaded, he is most proud of those measures in-
creasing workmen's compensation and disability benefits, un-
employment insurance coverage, and pensions for the aged and
the blind; and
   WHEREAS, He has been a dynamic participant in community
affairs, having been president of the Potrero Boosters and
Merchants Association, member of the Eagles, Woodmen, Elks,
and Union Square Optimist Club, and an honorary member of
the Monte Cristo Club of San Francisco, Italian Catholic Fed-
eration, North Beach Merchants' Association, Lumber Han-
dlers' Association, and the Maritime Democratic Club; and
   WHEREAS, He is well known by his many friends for his
sparkling and diplomatic personality; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend
Thomas A. Maloney on the occasion of his 80th birthday for
his outstanding career in public service and express their deep
affection for him, and wish him the happiest of birthdays, with
many more to follow; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Thomas A. Ma-
loney.

                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 155
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 167—
                   Relative to beach safety.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 12, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Beaches throughout the State of California
serve an important role in providing recreation for citizens and
visitors; and
   WHEREAS, The surf is a magnet which attracts young and
old alike to the beach, and surf activities have a strong appeal
suitable for wide public participation; and
   WHEREAS, Public safety is a basic consideration in beach
operations, and beach facilities endeavor to provide adequate
lifeguard protection as a safe place for children and adults to
enjoy their leisure time; and
   WHEREAS, Beach lifeguards are highly trained in surf
safety and their experience and judgment in rendering in-
valuable aid to beach visitors have won them great respect and
admiration; and
   WHEREAS, Hundreds of lives are saved each year by the
vigilance and responsible efforts of lifeguards who, at the risk
3732               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Ch. 156

of their own lives, have insured the safety of California's
beaches; and
  WHEREAS, Establishment of an annual Beach             Safety
Week is a means of calling public attention to the role of
beach lifeguards, as well as urging public cooperation in con-
nection with beach safety; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members respectfully re-
quest the Governor to proclaim May 26 through June 1, 1969,
as Beach Safety Week; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                EESOLUTION CHAPTER 156
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 57—Relative to the
           Joint Committee on Legislative Organization.
              [Filed with Secretary of State May 15, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That a subcommittee of the Joint Com-
mittee on Legislative Organization is hereby created to be
known as the Subcommittee on Legislative Assistance, and that
the Chairman of the Joint Committee on Legislative Orga-
nization shall appoint one member of the Joint Committee on
Legislative Organization from each house to be members of the
subcommittee; and be it further
   Resolved, That the subcommittee shall have the duty and re-
sponsibility of offering such assistance as may be desired by
Members of the Legislature, former members, and their fam-
ilies and rendering such aid and assistance as is possible
through the offices of the Sergeants at Arms and other officers
and employees of the Legislature in the event of the death of a
member, former member, or a member of their families; and be
it further
   Resolved, That the Sergeants at Arms and other officers and
employees of each house of the Legislature shall render such
aid or assistance as may be requested or directed by the sub-
committee; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Joint Committee on Legislative Organiza-
tion shall allocate to the subcommittee, from any funds avail-
able therefor, such funds as may be required to carry out its
functions.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 157
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 17—Relative to naming
   a portion of State Highway Route 57 the Orange Freeway.
              [Filed with Secretary of Stat§ May 15, 1969.]
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 1581                   REGULAR SESSION                 3733
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That State Highway Route 57 be-
tween its southerly terminus in the City of Newport Beach
and State Highway Route 60 near the City of Walnut is
hereby officially designated and named the Orange Freeway;
and be it further
   Resolved, That, upon completion of appreciable freeway
segments, the Division of Highways in the Department of
Public Works is hereby requested to erect and maintain
appropriate signs on such portion of the highway showing the
official designation; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Public Works.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 158
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 143—
              Relative to National Library Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 15, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Our society is undergoing a period of rapid tech-
nological change that is characterized by an increasing body
of knowledge in all fields of human endeavor; and
  WHEREAS, New ideas, new thoughts, new theories, new tech-
nology and new problems have created a demand for more
knowledge; and
  WHEREAS, To successfully assimilate this vast ever growing
reservoir of knowledge and to keep abreast of the rapid
changes, it is essential that the modern citizen develop good
reading habits; and
  WHEREAS, April 20 through April 26 has been designated as
National Library Week; and
  WHEREAS, The objective of this week is to create a better
read, better informed America by encouraging lifetime reading
habits and stimulating greater library use; now, therefore,
be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim April 20 through April 26 as National
Library Week and urge all the citizens of California to make
better use of the facilities of their local library; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.
3734               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [EeS. Ch. 159

                EESOLUTION CHAPTER 159
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 164—Relative to the
      death of former Congressman Harry R. Sheppard.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, It was with the most sincere and profound sor-
row that the members learned of the untimely death of former
Congressman and longtime dean of the California congres-
sional delegation, Harry E. Sheppard; and
   WHEEEAS, Born in Mobile, Alabama, on January 10, 1885,
and having graduated from Georgia Institute of Technology
in 1907 and studied law for three years, he came to California
at the age of 29 and later opened his own consulting engineer-
ing firm in Fresno in 1920, which he sold in 1924, and then
moved to Yucaipa, where he developed the King's Beverage
and King's Laboratories corporations, serving as president
and general manager until 1934, when he retired from active
business; and
   WHEEEAS, First elected to the House of Representatives in
1936, highly respected by his colleagues in Congress and
admired and honored by the people he served, he was reelected
14 consecutive times before his retirement on January 3, 1965,
having represented at one time or another the 19th, 21st, 27th,
and 33rd Congressional Districts; and
   WHEEEAS, A member of the House Appropriations Com-
mittee and chairman of the Military Construction Appropria-
tions Subcommittee, he thus became an influential Member of
Congress and worked unceasingly for a strong military force,
work which was duly recognized when, after his retirement,
he received the coveted Eagle Certificate, the highest peace-
time award made by the National Guard Bureau, and the
Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Service, being
only the second legislator so honored, for devoting "long
hours to the development and preservation of the strength and
the vitality of the military establishment while tirelessly
serving those who chose him for this office''; and
   WHEEEAS, " A legend in his own time," the work he has
done is evident on all sides . . . at Norton Air Force Base,
George Air Force Base, Ontario Airport, Kaiser Steel Com-
pany, and numerous flood control works, all serving as a con-
stant memorial to this life of public service; and
   WHEEEAS, A S "one of the great congressional figures in Cali-
fornia history,'' he has also left a rich legacy of public service
to the people, to whom service was his most overriding con-
sideration; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved, by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their pro-
found sorrow on the untimely death of former Congressman
Harry R. Sheppard, and extend their deepest condolences to
his widow, Kay Olson Sheppard; and be it further
                        1969
Res. Ch. 1601                  REGULAR SESSION                  3735

  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to his widow, Kay
Olson Sheppard.

                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 160
          Assembly Joint Resolution No. 13—Relative
                        to drug abuse.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The sale and use of narcotics, marijuana, and
dangerous drugs in California is reaching staggering propor-
tions, especially among California's young people; and
   WHEREAS, In the past eight years juvenile narcotic, mari-
juana, and dangerous drug arrests have increased by 2,000
percent, and these arrests show that the use of these dan-
gerous drugs has spread to all levels of our society; and
   WHEREAS, Marijuana has become available in the high
schools and elementary schools of California at an ever-increas-
ing rate, creating dangerous antisocial behavior in young
people; and
   WHEREAS, Studies have indicated that certain individuals
are prone to drug abuse and will progress from marijuana
to heroin; and
   WHEREAS, It has been estimated that 90 percent of the
dangerous drugs which are sold and used in California enter
our state from Mexico, and present efforts to stop this impor-
tation have not been sufficient; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Califor-
nia, jointly, That the need for effective and immediate action
on the part of the federal government to help check the flow
of narcotics, marijuana, and dangerous drugs into California
be brought to the attention of the President and the Congress
of the United States; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Assembly and Senate of the State of
California respectfully request the President and the Congress
of the United States to take immediate action to help the
State of California by the effective administration of federal
legislation and by the dissemination of factual information on
federal laws concerning this problem; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President of
the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, and to each Senator and Representative from California
in the Congress of the United States.
3736               STATUTES OF CALIPOBNIA                    [EeS. Ch. 1 6 1

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 161
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 89—Relative
                to the death of Alan Mowbray.
             [Piled with Secretary of State May 16, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t was with the most profound sorrow that the
members learned of the recent death of a long-time friend,
veteran character actor, and founder of the Screen Actors
Guild, Alan Mowbray; and
   WHEREAS, Alan Mowbray was born in London, England,
August 18, 1896, and appeared on stage in his native land be-
fore coming to the United States; and
   WHEREAS, He appeared in over 300 motion pictures during
his long career, including "Captain From Castile," "Prince
of Thieves," "Androcles and the Lion," " T h e King and I , "
and ' ' The Man Who Knew Too Much,'' as well as starring in
the television series, "Col. Humphrey F l a c k " ; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Mowbray was active in the Hollywood Masqu-
ers, a performers's social organization, of which he was pres-
ident twice; and
   WHEREAS, Alan Mowbray brought great joy to the Members
of the Legislature and to the citizens of the world; and
   WHEREAS, He leaves his wife, Lorayne, a daughter, Mrs. Pa-
tricia Dumbrille, a son, Alan Mowbray, Jr., and two grand-
children ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members express their
sorrow at the loss of Alan Mowbray and extend their deepest
condolences to his family upon his passing; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to his widow, Lorayne, to his
son, to his daughter, and to The Masquers.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 162
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 99—Relative
                to "Senior Citizens' Month."
             [Piled with Secretary of State May 16, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The senior Californians, numbering 1,800,000, are
one of the Golden State's most valuable resources, actively con-
tributing to all segments of society; and
   WHEREAS, Our senior Californians, who increase in number
every year, continue to provide us with a wealth of guidance
and counsel born of the wisdom and experience of their years;
and
   WHEREAS, The many working years of the senior Californian
are the basis of the prosperity that all generations of Cali-
                        1969
Res. Ch. 163]                   REGULAR SESSION                 3737
fornians now enjoy, and they deserve recognition of that
merit; and
   WHEREAS, Every Californian will benefit from expanding
the opportunities for the senior Californian to make fuller use
of his talents and experience; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
designate May 1969 as Senior Citizens' Month in California;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the State of California, through the Cali-
fornia Commission on Aging, shall offer stimulation, coopera-
tion and direction in providing hope and renewed vigor to
senior Californians, and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and to the California Com-
mission on Aging.

                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 163
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 107—Approving an amend-
  ment to the Charter of the City of Berkeley, a municipal
  corporation in the County of Alameda, State of California,
  voted for and ratified by the qualified electors of said city
  at the regular municipal election held therein on the first
  day of April, 1969.
                [Piled with Secretary of State May 16, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
proposal, adoption and ratification of amendments to the Char-
ter of the City of Berkeley, a municipal corporation in the
County of Alameda, State of California, as set out in the cer-
tificate of the mayor and city clerk of the said city as follows,
to wit:

State of California         )   sg
County of Alameda           )
  We, the undersigned, Wallace J. S. Johnson, Mayor of the
City of Berkeley, State of California, and Edythe Campbell,
City Clerk of said City, do hereby certify as follows:
  That the City of Berkeley, a municipal corporation in the
County of Alameda, State of California, now is and at all
times herein mentioned, was a City containing a population of
more than 3,500 inhabitants, and has been ever since the 1st
day of July, 1909, and now is organized and existing under
a freeholder's charter adopted under and by virtue of Section
8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California,
which Charter was duly ratified by the qualified electors of
said City at an election duly held for that purpose on the 30th
day of January, 1909, and approved by the Legislature of the
3738              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ft e S - C h . 163

State of California by Assembly Concurrent Resolution filed
with the Secretary of State on the 4th day of March, 1909
(Statutes 1909, p. 1208).
    That in accordance with the provisions of Seetion 8 of Ar-
ticle X I of the Constitution of the State of California on its
own motion, the Council of the City of Berkeley, being the
legislative body of said City, duly and regularly submitted to
the qualified electors of said City certain proposals designated
as "Charter Amendments" to amend the Charter of said City
and to be voted upon by said qualified electors at the regular
municipal election held in said City on the 1st day of April,
1969.
    That said proposed amendments were published and adver-
tised in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Article
X I of the Constitution of the State of California on the 13th
day of February, 1969, in the Berkeley Daily Gazette, a daily
newspaper of general circulation published in said City of
Berkeley and the official newspaper of said City, and in each
edition thereof during the day of publication.
    That copies of said proposed amendments were printed in
convenient pamphlet form and in type of not less than ten
point, and copies thereof were mailed to each of the qualified
electors in said City in accordance with the Constitution of
 the State of California and the Charter of the City of Berke-
ley; and an advertisement that copies thereof could be had
 by the application therefor at the office of the City Clerk of
 the City of Berkeley was published in said Berkeley Daily
 Gazette, a newspaper of general circulation published in said
 City, on the 14th day of February, 1969, and on each day
 thereafter to and including the 1st day of April, 1969, all as
 required by Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the
 State of California.
    That copies of said pamphlet containing said proposed
 Charter Amendments could be had upon application therefor
 at the office of the City Clerk of said City to and including the
 1st day of April, 1969, the date fixed for said election.
    That said regular municipal election was duly and regularly
 held in said City of Berkeley, after due notice given and pub-
 lished, on the 1st day of April, 1969, which day was not less
 than forty (40) days, nor more than sixty (60) days after
 completion of the publication and advertisment of the afore-
 mentioned proposed Charter Amendments in the Berkeley
 Daily Gazette, the official newspaper of said City.
    That the returns of said election were, in accordance with
 the law in such cases made and provided, duly and regularly
 canvassed and certified to, and it was duly found, determined
 and declared by the proper officers thereunto duly and prop-
 erly authorized that one (1) of the amendments to the Charter
 of the City of Berkeley, hereinafter set forth, was ratified by a
 majority of the electors of said City voting thereon; that the
  Council of the City of Berkeley did by its Eesolution No.
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 163]              REGULAR SESSION                   3739

43,021-N.S. duly declare the results of said election as deter-
mined by the canvass of the returns thereof.
   That as to said Charter Amendment, this certificate shall be
taken as a full and complete certification as to the regularity
of all proceedings had and done in connection therewith.
   That said Amendment to the Charter of the City of Berke-
ley so ratified by the electors of said City is in the words and
figures as follows, to wit:

                  Charter Amendment No. 2
  That Article I I I of the Charter of the City of Berkeley be
amended by adding thereto a new Section 6 to read as follows:

Section 6. Votes for Deceased Candidates
   Whenever a candidate whose name appears upon the ballot
at a general municipal election dies before the time of the
closing of the polls on the day of election, the votes cast for
such deceased candidate shall be counted in determining the
results of the election for the office for which the decedent was
a candidate. If the deceased candidate receives the highest
number of the votes cast for the office, or if more than one is
to be elected to such office and the deceased candidate receives
sufficient votes to be one of those elected for such office, he
shall be considered elected and the office to which he was elected
shall be vacant at the beginning of the term for which he was
elected. The vacancy thus created shall be filled in the same
manner as if the candidate had died subsequent to taking office
for that term.

   And we further certify that we have compared the fore-
going proposed and ratified amendment to the Charter of the
City of Berkeley with the original proposal submitting the
same to the electors of said City, and find that the foregoing
is a full, true, correct and exact copy thereof.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of Berkeley to be affixed hereto,
this 21st day of April, 1969.

                           "WALLACE J. S. JOHNSON
   (SEAL)                  Mayor of the City of Berkeley
                           EDYTHE CAMPBELL
                           City Clerk of the City of Berkeley
   WHEREAS, The said proposed amendment as ratified as here-
inbefore set forth has been and now is duly presented and
submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for
approval or rejection, as a whole without power of alteration
in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitu-
tion of the State of California.
   Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Senate of the State of
California, the Assembly concurring, a majority of all the
3740               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [Ke"S. C h . 1 6 4

members elected to each House voting therefor and concurring
therein, That said amendment to the Charter of the City of
Berkeley as presented to, and adopted and ratified by the elec-
tors of the said city and as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and
the same is hereby approved as a whole, without amendment
or alteration, for and as an amendment to and as a part of the
Charter of said City of Berkeley.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 164
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 108—Relative to commend-
  ing municipal clerks and proclaiming the week of May 19
  through May 25, 1969, Municipal Clerks' Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 16, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, In order to best serve the eitizenry, municipal
 government must be operated with efficiency and in an orderly
fashion; and
   WHEREAS, The efficiency and order with which government
 carries out its public functions could not exist without records
and procedures; and
   WHEREAS, The keepers of the records are those who work
with these procedures each day, the municipal clerks of our
cities and towns; and
   WHEREAS, Without the municipal clerks' conscientious dedi-
cation to the duties of their office, municipal affairs would
clearly end in chaos; and
   WHEREAS, Government at any level is successful only so
long as it is able to meet the needs of the people; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members recognize and
commend municipal clerks for their untiring and loyal con-
tributions to successful government, and request the Gover-
nor to proclaim the week of May 19 through May 25, 1969,
as Municipal Clerks' Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 165
   Senate Joint Resolution No. 25—Relative to the issuance
           of a Queen Mary commemorative stamp.
            [Filed with Secretary of State May 19, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The City of Long Beach, California, on August
18, 1967, purchased the R.M.S. Queen Mary, to be developed
                     l969
Res. Ch. 166]               REGULAR SESSION                 3741

  as a museum of the sea and as a site for a hotel and convention
 center; and
    WHEREAS, Such a development would constitute a superb
 tourist attraction and educational center as to the historical
 growth of ocean commerce through the ages and to the bright
 future of scientific exploration and development of the earth's
 sea resources; and
    WHEREAS, The Queen Mary was conceived in 1926 as a lux-
 ury liner for transatlantic service, launched on September 26,
 1934, by H.M. Queen Mary, and commenced service on May
 26, 1936, sailing on her maiden voyage from Southampton to
 New York, and from that day on became the symbol of the
 solidarity of relations between the United States and England;
 and
    WHEREAS, Activated as a troopship on March 21, 1940, while
 in New York, she sailed approximately 570,000 miles through
 submarine-infested waters and carried over 810,000 passen-
gers, including 765,000 servicemen, safely; and
    WHEREAS, The Queen Mary holds a special place not only
in the hearts of thousands of our veterans who sailed on her
during those dark days of World W a r I I , but also in the
hearts of thousands of war brides and children who were trans-
ported to this country from England after the war; and
    WHEREAS, Until her retirement from commercial service in
1967 by the Cunard Lines, the Queen Mary had carried over
two million fare-paying passengers and had sailed more than
3.7 million nautical miles, equivalent to approximately 12
round trips to the moon; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Califor-
nia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
recommends that the Post Office Department of the United
States in 1970 print a commemorative stamp honoring the
R.M.S. Queen Mary on the 36th anniversary of her launching;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President of the United States and to
the Postmaster General of the United States.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 166
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 170—
             Relative to Municipal Clerks' Week.
            [Filed with Secretary of State May 20, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Our liberties are dependent upon keeping govern-
ment close to our people in fact as well as in theory; and
  WHEREAS, Vigorous, responsible local government is of great
importance and every effort should be made to increase the
participation and influence of local government in the world's
public affairs; and
3742              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Ch. 167

   WHEREAS, The municipal clerks of the cities, towns and
boroughs are of paramount importance in every community;
and
   WHEREAS, These officials are the keepers of the records that
guide our everyday living; and
   WHEREAS, The municipal clerks are a key source of knowl-
edge in any community, receiving reams of letters, thousands
of reports, issuing licenses, operating the election machinery,
recording deeds and administering the numerous other obliga-
tions directed to their offices by their governing bodies; and
   WHEREAS, The municipal clerks are dedicated to their office
and perform their duties and obligations in a sincere, honest
and loyal manner; and
   WHEREAS, Municipalities would be materially handicapped
but for the conscientious, unswerving and untiring efforts of
the clerks; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim May 19 through 25, 1969, as "Municipal
Clerks' Week" and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 167
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 148—
               Relative to Foster Parents Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 21, 1869.]

   WHEREAS, Notable success has been achieved in California
under an arrangement whereby children left without proper
parental care are able to have " t e m p o r a r y " parents; and
   WHEREAS, Continued faith in American ideals and institu-
tions, and the social and economic stability of the state and
the nation, depend upon the preservation of the family as a
moral and socializing force in our society; and
   WHEREAS, Continuance of the family as the basic ingredient
of social organization calls for the placing of such children in
the home of well-screened and responsible adults, or "foster
parents," who treat a foster child as their own and attempt
to instill in him those disciplines and standards that will be
necessary for him to lead a happy and productive life; and
   WHEREAS, The foster parent program furnishes each foster
parent with the opportunity to be a part of something that is
important to the future of mankind and furnishes each par-
ticipating child with the opportunity to have a directive force
in his life; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
                        1969 R
Res. Ch. 169]                 BGtrLAR SESSION                         3743

ernor to proclaim the week of May 25 to 31, 1969, as Foster
Parents Week; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Reagan.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 168
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 100—Relative to
          Future Business Leaders of America Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The future economic growth and development of
our country will be largely dependent on our future business
leaders; and
   WHEREAS, The Future Business Leaders of America is an
organization created by the United Business Education Asso-
ciation to develop the young adults majoring in business edu-
cation courses in our high schools and colleges; and
   WHEREAS, The organization is operated as an integral part
of our educational system and is financed solely by the stu-
dents ; and
   WHEREAS, During the week of April 21 to 27, 1969, the
members of the nearly 150 high school chapters in California
 will be devoting themselves to various community service
 programs; and
   WHEREAS, Nearly 600 delegates will convene in Sacramento
 on April 25th for the 20th annual state convention of the
 Future Business Leaders of America; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
 sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
 ernor to proclaim the week of April 21 to 27, 1969, as F u t u r e
 Business Leaders of America Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
 of this resolution to the Governor.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 169
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 110—Relative             to
              California Wheelchair Games Days.
                 [Filed with Secretary of State May 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The members have learned that the 1969 Califor-
 nia Wheelchair Games will be held in Palo Alto May 23 to May
 25, 1969; and
   WHEREAS, The integration of handicapped persons into the
 recreational and competitive world has become a major concern
 of the able-bodied population; and

     118—1954
3744                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   [ReS. Ch. 170

   "WHEREAS, The American ideal is to help individuals who
help themselves; and
   WHEREAS, The physically handicapped have proven their
desire and ability to work and recreate, as do the able bodied;
and
   "WHEREAS, The California Wheelchair Association, Incorpo-
rated, has organized to promote and administer an amateur,
nonprofit endeavor of sports and recreation through competi-
tion to permit those with permanent physical disabilities to
compete vigorously and safely under rules that are kept as
close to " n o r m a l " rules as possible with wheelchair adapta-
tions, as it has been found that almost all sports could be
adapted to fit the ability of the wheelchair person, often with
much more excitement and skill than the same sport for the
able bodied; and
   WHEREAS, The games will include competitive events in
track and field, archery, basketball, swimming, fencing, table
tennis, billiards, bowling, and weightlif ting; and
   WHEREAS, The games are open to all over the age of 12 years
who require the use of a wheelchair to participate in sports
and recreational activity; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of Califorma, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the members request the
Governor to proclaim May 22 to 25, 1969, as California
Wheelchair Games Days; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 170
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 116—Approving a revised
  Charter of the City of Pacific Grove, County of Monterey,
  State of California, ratified by the qualified electors of the
  city at a general municipal election held therein on the
  eighth day of April, 1969.
             tFiled with Secretary of State May 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of a revised Charter of the
City of Pacific Grove, a municipal corporation in the County
of Monterey, State of California, as hereinafter set forth in the
certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city, as follows:

CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION AND RATIFICATION BT ELECTORS OF
  THE CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE OF THE ADOPTION OF A N E W AND
  REVISED CITY CHARTER.

State of California   1
County of Monterey > ss.
City of Pacific Grove J
                     1969
Res. Ch. 170]               REGULAR SESSION                  3745

   We, the undersigned, Earl D. Grafton, Mayor of the City of
Pacific Grove, County of Monterey, State of California, and
William S. Pitt, City Clerk of said City and Ex-officio Clerk of
the City Council of said City, do hereby certify and declare as
follows:
   That the undersigned, said William S. Pitt, was at all the
times herein mentioned, the Clerk of the Legislative Body of
said City and City Clerk of said City of Pacific Grove; that
heretofore and prior to the 28th day of January, 1969, the said
City Council did cause to be framed a proposed charter for its
own government, and on the 28th day of January, 1969, at a
duly held meeting of said City Council of said City, said City
Council by Resolution No. 4631 ordered said City Clerk to
place the proposition of the adoption of said proposed charter
on the ballot at the general municipal election ordered in the
 City of Pacific Grove for the 8th day of April, 1969, for the
purpose of submitting said proposition to the electors of said
 City of Pacific Grove, and which resolution ordered that said
charter be filed with the City Clerk of the City of Pacific
Grove; that said proposed charter of the City of Pacific Grove
was filed in the office of the City Clerk in the City Hall at
Pacific Grove on the 3rd day of February, 1969, and said
resolution further ordered that the adoption of the charter
should be submitted to the electors at said general municipal
election held on the 8th day of April, 1969, and directed t h a t
said City Clerk publish said proposed charter in the Monterey
Peninsula Herald, a newspaper of general circulation, cir-
culated in said City; that said notice was given by the said City
Clerk in the notice hereafter referred to informing the electors
that copies of the charter could be secured at the City Hall ;
  That said proposed charter was published pursuant to said
order in said newspaper and in each edition thereof during the
publication on the 14th day of February, 1969, said newspaper
being of general circulation in said City of Pacific Grove; t h a t
the date of such publication was within fifteen days after the
said charter was filed in the office of said Clerk of said City
Council; that the date set for the submission to the electors of
said proposed charter, to wit: April 8, 1969, was not less t h a n
forty days nor more than sixty days after the completion of
the advertising in said official paper, as aforesaid;
   That the population of said City of Pacific Grove is more
than three thousand five hundred (3,500) and less than fifty
thousand (50,000) inhabitants as ascertained by the last p r e -
ceding census taken under the authority of the Congress of t h e
United States;
   That said election was duly and regularly called and held on
the 8th day of April, 1969;
   That at said election a majority of the qualified voters voting
hereon voted in favor of said, proposed charter.
   That the said City Council of the City of Pacific Grove a t a
meeting held on April 15, 1969, at the time and in the manner
3746               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            [EeS. Ch. 170

provided by law and in accordance with the law in such cases
made and provided, duly canvassed the returns of said election,
and duly found, determined and declared that a majority of
said electors voting thereon had voted in favor of said proposed
charter, and that the same was adopted and ratified by more
than the majority of the qualified voters of the City of Pacific
Grove voting thereon, as follows, to wit:

   Votes in favor of the adoption and ratification of
     said proposed charter                                 1,819
   Votes against the adoption and ratification of said
     proposed charter                                      1,720
   That said election was held in accordance with the existing
charter of the City of Pacific Grove and in accordance with the
laws of the State of California where applicable;
   That in all matters and in all things pertaining to said Char-
ter, all of the provisions of Section 8, Article X I of the Con-
stitution of the State of California and the laws of said State,
have been fully complied with in each and every particular.
   That said proposed charter, if approved by the Legislature,
shall replace the present charter of said City;
   That said charter so proposed, filed, adopted and ratified as
herein set forth, is in the words and figures following, to wit:

            CHABTEB OF THE CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE

                       Article 1.   Name
   The municipal corporation now existing and known as " T h e
City of Pacific Grove" shall remain and continue a body poli-
tic and corporate, as at present, in fact and in law, by the
name of the "City of Pacific Grove," and by such name shall
have perpetual succession.

                    Article 2.   Boundaries
   The boundaries of the City of Pacific Grove shall continue
as now established and be changed only in a manner author-
ized by law.

             Article 3. Inalienable Eights of City
  The rights of the City in and to its waterfront, lands under
water, and such public wharves, docks and landings as may
be hereafter thereon constructed are hereby declared inalien-
able.
                     Article 4. Powers
  The City of Pacific Grove by and through its Council and
other officials, shall have and may exercise all powers necessary
or appropriate to a municipal corporation and the general
welfare of its inhabitants, which are not prohibited by the
Constitution of the State and which it would be competent
                       1969
Res. Ch. 170]                 REGULAR SESSION                  3747

for this Charter to set forth particularly or specifically; and
the specification herein of any particular powers shall not be
held to be exclusive or any limitation upon this general grant
of powers.
              Article 5. General Laws Applicable
   All General Laws of the State applicable to municipal cor-
porations now or hereafter enacted and which are not in
conflict with the provisions of this Charter shall be applicable
to the City of Pacific Grove, provided that the Council may
adopt and enforce ordinances in compliance with the provi-
sions of this Charter which shall control in relation to munici-
pal affairs as against General Laws of the State.

                 Article 6.    Officers and Employees
   The officers of the City of Pacific Grove shall consist of six
Councilmen and a Mayor, a City Manager, a City Clerk, a
City Treasurer, a City Attorney, other officers as provided by
ordinance, and Boards as provided by ordinance; provided,
the Council may by ordinance provide for such subordinate
officers, assistants, deputies, clerks and employees as it deems
necessary, and that the Council may at any time, when in its
judgment the interest of the City so demands, consolidate by
ordinance the powers and duties of two or more City officers,
and place the same in charge of one such officer. The Mayor
and the members of the Council shall be elected from the
City at large. All other officers, assistants, deputies, clerks, and
employees shall be appointed as provided in this Charter, or
as the Council may provide by ordinance in case no provision
for their appointment is herein made, and they shall hold their
respective offices or positions at the pleasure of the appointing
power, except as otherwise herein provided.

                Article 7. Residential Qualifications
  No person shall be eligible to hold any elective office in said
City unless he be a resident and elector herein, and shall have
resided in said City for at least one year, next preceding the
date of his election.

                       Article 8.    Elections
   General municipal elections shall be held in said City on
the second Tuesday in April in each odd-numbered year under
and pursuant to the provisions of the General Laws of the
State of California governing elections in the cities of the sixth
class so far as the same may be applicable, and except as
herein otherwise provided. The City Council may by ordinance
shift the date of any general municipal election by not more
than 30 days in order to combine it with other local elections.
All other municipal elections that may be held by authority
3748               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [R e S - Qh. 170

of this Charter or of General Law shall be known as special
municipal elections. At least twenty days before the day of
election each candidate for an elective office shall file with the
City Clerk a sworn statement containing the following infor-
mation: (A) his name; (B) the office for which he is can-
didate; (C) his present residence and occupation; (D) the
public offices he ever held, if any, as principal, deputy or
employee; (B) the experience, training or education he has
received which, in his opinion, would qualify him to fill the
office for which he is a candidate.

                Article 9.   Canvass of Eeturns
   The Council of said City shall meet at its usual meeting
 place on the first Tuesday after any municipal election, duly
 canvass the returns and declare the result thereof, and install
 the newly elected officers, if any.

                   Article 10.   Oath of Office
   Every officer shall take and subscribe to the oath of office
 as provided in the Constitution of the State before entering
 upon the performance of his official duties.

                   Article 11. Official Bonds
   The Council shall determine which officers shall give bonds
 for the faithful performance of their official duties, shall fix
 the amount of said bonds and the mode of approving the same.
 Such officers before entering upon their official duties, shall
 execute a bond to the City in the penal sum required, and said
 bond shall be approved by the Council and filed with the City
 Clerk.
                     Article 12. The Mayor
    A Mayor shall be elected at each general municipal election
  and shall hold office for the term of two years from and after
  the Tuesday next succeeding the day of such election and
  until his successor is elected and qualified. The Mayor may
  receive compensation as provided by ordinance, but in no case
  shall the compensation exceed that amount which is permitted
  by State Law for General Law Cities of comparable size to
  Pacific Grove. He shall be ineligible to hold any other office
  or employment with the City except as a member of any board
  or committee thereof of which he is constituted such member
  by General Law. In case of riot, insurrection or extraordinary
  emergency the Mayor shall assume general control of the City
  government and all of its branches and be responsible for the
  suppression of disorders and the restoration of normal condi-
tions. In the name and on behalf of the City he shall sign all
contracts, deeds, bonds and other legal instruments in which
the City is a party. He shall represent the City at all cere-
 monial functions of a social or patriotic character when it is
                        1969
 Res. Ch. 170]                 REGULAR SESSION               3749

desirable or appropriate to have the City represented officially
thereat. In the case of vacancy in the office of Mayor during
the temporary absence or disability of the Mayor, the Council
shall choose one of its members to act as Mayor protempore.

                       Article 13. The Council
    Three Councilmen shall be elected at each general municipal
 election and shall hold office for the term of four years each
 from and after the Tuesday next succeeding the day of such
 election, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
    A vacancy in an elective office shall be filled by appointment
 by the Council, such appointee to hold office until the next
 general municipal election and until his successor is elected
 and qualified. Such successor shall be elected for the unexpired
term of his predecessor at the general municipal election next
succeeding such appointment. Should the Council fail to fill
any such vacancy within thirty days after the same occurs,
then it shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor; provided,
however, that if the offices of a majority, or more, of the
 Council shall become vacant, then the City Clerk shall call a
special election at once to fill the vacancies for the unexpired
terms, and the same shall be conducted substantially in the
manner provided for general municipal elections.
   If any Councilman of the City shall remove from the City
or absent himself therefrom for more than thirty days con-
secutively without the permission of the Council, or shall fail
to qualify, or shall resign or be convicted of a felony, or be
adjudged insane, his office shall thereupon become vacant.
   The Councilmen may receive compensation as provided by
ordinance, but in no case shall the compensation exceed that
amount which is permitted by State Law for General Law
cities of comparable size to Pacific Grove.
   No Councilman shall be eligible to hold any other office or
employment with the City except as a member of any board,
commission, or committee thereof, or which he is constituted
such member by the General Law of the State.

                 Article 14.   Meetings of the Council
   All meetings of the Council shall be held in the Council
 Chambers, unless by reason of fire, flood or other disaster, the
 Council Chambers cannot be used for that purpose, and all
meetings shall be open to the public. I n case of a crowd too
large to be accommodated in the Council Chambers, the Coun-
cil may adjourn to another location large enough to accommo-
date those who wish to attend. There shall be two regular
meetings of the Council in each month at a day and hour by
ordinance determined, and any regular meeting may be ad-
journed to a date and hour certain, and such adjourned
meeting shall be a regular meeting for all purposes. The Coun-
cil shall adopt rules for the conduct of its proceedings and
3750              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 170

shall provide by ordinance the manner in which its special
meetings may be called.

                     Article 15.   Quorum
   A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business, but a less number may adjourn from
time to time and compel the attendance of absent members in
such manner and under such penalties as may be prescribed
by ordinance.
                   Article 16. Ordinances
   The enacting clause of all ordinances passed by the Council
shall read as follows:'' The Council of the City of Pacific Grove
does ordain as follows:'' The enacting clause of all ordinances
passed by the vote of the electors of the City through the exer-
cise of the initiative or referendum shall be: " T h e people of
the City of Pacific Grove do ordain as follows:"
   The affirmative vote of a majority of the Council shall be
necessary to adopt any ordinances, resolutions or claims against
the City, which vote shall be taken by ayes and noes and en-
tered upon the record, and upon the request of any member
of the Council the ayes and noes shall be taken and recorded
upon any vote.
   No ordinance shall be passed by the Council on the day of
its introduction nor within five days thereafter, nor at any
time other than at a regular meeting, nor until its publication
at least once in the official newspaper of the City at least three
days before its adoption; provided, any ordinance declared by
the Council to be necessary as an emergency measure for pre-
serving the public peace, health or safety, and containing the
reasons for its urgency, may be introduced and if passed by a
five-sevenths vote shall become effective immediately.
   A proposed ordinance may be amended or modified between
the time of its introduction and the time of its final passage,
provided its general scope and original purpose are retained.
No ordinance or portion thereof shall be repealed, revised or
amended except by ordinance, and all ordinances shall be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk. Except
as provided by General Law, or by this Charter, no action pro-
viding for any specific public improvement, or for the expendi-
ture or appropriation of public moneys, in an amount over
Fifteen Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00), or for the acquisition,
 sale, lease, encumbrancing, or disposition of the real property
 of the City, or any interest therein, or for the levying of any
 tax or assessment, or for the granting of any franchise, or for
 the establishment or changing of fire limits, or business, resi-
 dence, or other use zones, or for the imposing of any penalty,
 shall be taken except by ordinance.
    Provided, however, that materials and supplies, equipment,
 furniture and fixtures, may be leased or purchased by said
 City and public moneys expended therefor in excess of Fifteen
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 170]               REGULAR SESSION                  3751

Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) by resolution of said Council in-
viting sealed proposals through notice published by the City
Clerk in the official newspaper at least once, five days or more
prior to the time fixed in said resolution for the public opening
and declaring of such bids.

          Article 17.   The Initiative and Beferendum
  The initiative and referendum may be exercised in accord-
ance with the Constitution and General Laws of this State,
provided, however, that when any ordinance is referred to the
electors either upon an initiative or referendum petition, it
shall be voted upon at a special election to be held not less than
twenty days nor more than thirty days from the presentation
of the petition therefor unless there is to occur a special or
regular municipal election not less than twenty days nor more
than ninety days from the presentation of the petition, in
which event the ordinance shall be submitted at such special
or general election.

                     Article 18.    The Recall
   The recall may be exercised in accordance with the Constitu-
tion and General Laws of this State as to municipal officers.
                Article 19.   Oaths and Subpoenas
   The Mayor, City Manager, and City Clerk shall have power
to administer oaths, to issue subpoenas, to compel by subpoena
the production of the books, papers and documents of the City
and to take and hear testimony whenever necessary in carry-
ing out their official duties.
                   Article 20.     City Manager
   There shall be a City Manager appointed by the affirmative
vote of five-sevenths of the Council who shall be the adminis-
trative head of the City government. The City Manager shall
be chosen by the Council without regard to political considera-
tion and with reference solely to his qualifications for such
office.
   I t shall not be necessary that he reside in the City at the
time of his appointment, but he shall become a resident thereof
within sixty days thereafter and thereafter during his incum-
bency actually reside in said City. The salary of the City Man-
ager shall be fixed by ordinance.
   The powers and duties of the City Manager shall be:
   a. To see that all ordinances are enforced.
   b. To appoint all heads of departments, subordinate officials
and employees, and remove the same, and have general super-
vision and control over the same.
3752                 STATUTES OP CAMFORTttA          [ReS. Ch. 170

   c. To exercise general supervision over all privately owned
public utilities operating within the City so far as the same
are subject to municipal control.
   d. To see that the provisions of all franchises, leases, con-
tracts, permits and privileges granted by the City are fully
observed and to report to the Council any violations thereof.
   e. To act as purchasing agent for the City. He shall know
the exact condition of the treasury at all times, and shall
approve all demands before the same have been allowed by
the Council if he is satisfied that the money is lawfully due.
   f. To attend all meetings of the Council unless excused
therefrom by three members thereof or by the Mayor.
   g. To examine, or cause to be examined, without notice,
the conduct, or the official accounts and records, of any officer
or employee of the City.
   h. To keep the Council advised as to the needs of the City.
   i. To have supervision over all City property, including
public buildings, parks and playgrounds.
   j . To appoint such advisory boards as he may deem desirable
to advise and assist him in his work, provided the members
of such boards shall receive no compensation.
   k. To cause a quarterly statement of all funds in the treas-
ury to be submitted to the Council. Such statements shall be
submitted not later than the first meeting in November, Febru-
ary, May and August.

             Article 21. City Manager Protempore
   In case of the absence from the City of the City Manager,
or his temporary disability to act as such, the Council shall
appoint a City Manager protempore, who shall possess the
powers and discharge the duties of the City Manager during
such absence or disability only, provided, however, that a City
Manager protempore shall have no authority to appoint or
remove any City officer or employee; provided that the As-
sistant City Manager (if any) shall be the City Manager
protempore. If there is no Assistant City Manager, then the
Council shall appoint a City Manager protempore as provided
above.

       Article 22.   Interference With or by City Manager
   Neither the Council nor any of its committees or members
shall dictate or attempt to dictate, either directly or indirectly,
the appointment of any person to office or employment by the
City Manager, or in any manner interfere with the City Man-
ager or prevent him from exercising his own judgment in the
appointment of officers and employees in the administrative
service. Except for the purpose of inquiry the Council and
its members shall deal with the administrative service solely
through the City Manager, and neither the Council nor any
Res. Ch. 170]       1969 EEGULAB SESSION                   3753

member thereof shall give orders to any of the subordinates
of the City Manager, either publicly or privately.
  Neither the City Manager, nor any appointive officer or
employee of the City, shall take any active part in securing,
or shall contribute money toward, the nomination or election
of any elective candidate for municipal office.

                   Article 23.    City Clerk
   A City Clerk shall be appointed by the City Manager. The
City Clerk shall be Clerk of the Council. I t shall be the duty
of the City Clerk, or his deputy, to attend all sessions of the
Council and to keep an accurate record of the proceedings in
a book marked "Minutes of the Council." He shall also keep
a book marked "Ordinances" and record in it all City ordi-
nances with his certificate annexed to each, stating:
   a. It is a true and correct copy of a City ordinance.
   b. The ordinance number.
   c. It has been published or posted pursuant to law.
   Said record copy, so certified, shall be prima facie evidence
of the contents of the ordinance and of its passage and publi-
cation, and shall be admissable as such evidence in any court
or proceedings. The official City records in the custody of the
City Clerk shall not be filed in any court proceeding or other
action but shall be returned to the custody of the City Clerk.
   He shall be the keeper of the corporate seal of the City,
and shall affix the same to instruments or writings requiring
authentication.
   The City Clerk and his deputies may administer oaths or
affirmations and take and certify affidavits and depositions
pertaining to City affairs and business which may be used in
any court proceedings in the State.
   The City Clerk is the accounting officer of the City and shall
maintain records readily reflecting the financial condition of
 the City. At the end of each fiscal year he shall prepare and
 present to the legislative body a summary statement of receipts
 and disbursements by departments and funds, including open-
 ing and closing fund balances in the treasury. The financial
 and accounting duties imposed upon the City Clerk may be
 transferred to a director of finance when such office has been
 established and the powers and duties thereof defined by ordi-
 nance.
    The City Clerk shall perform such additional duties as are
 prescribed by ordinance.

                  Article 24.    City Treasurer
    A City Treasurer shall be appointed by the City Manager.
 He shall receive and safely keep all money coming into his
 hands as treasurer. He shall pay out money only on warrants
 signed by legally designated persons. Regularly, at least once
 each month, the City Treasurer shall submit to the City Clerk
3754               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [EeS. Ch. 170

and City Manager a written report and accounting of all re-
ceipts, disbursements, and fund balances. A copy of such re-
ports shall be filed with the City Council as may be prescribed
by ordinance. The City Treasurer shall perform such duties
relative to the collection of City taxes and license fees as are
prescribed by ordinance.

                   Article 25.     City Attorney
   There shall be a City Attorney appointed by the City Coun-
cil. He shall be an attorney-at-law, admitted to the bar of the
Supreme Court of this State, and one who has been in actual
practice in the State, for at least three years next preceding
his appointment. All other things being equal, an attorney who
has had special training for this office or experience in munic-
ipal corporation law shall be appointed to this office, if prac-
ticable. The City Attorney shall be legal advisor of the Council
and shall be available to all other City officials on City business.
   He shall prosecute all violations of City ordinances, and shall
draft all ordinances, resolutions, contracts, or other legal docu-
ments or proceedings required by the Council, or other officials,
except as may be otherwise provided, and shall perform such
legal services from time to time as the Council may require,
and shall attend all meetings of the Council unless excused
therefrom by three members thereof or by the Mayor. The
retainer of the City Attorney shall be fixed by ordinance.
"When from any cause the City Attorney is unable to perform
the duties of his office, he shall with the consent of the Council
appoint some other qualified attorney to act temporarily in
his place. Whenever, in the judgment of the Council, the in-
terests of the City require it, assistant counsel may be em-
ployed. The City Attorney shall deliver all books, records,
papers, documents, and personal property of every description,
under his control, owned by the City, to his successor in office,
and shall possess such other powers, and perform such addi-
tional duties, not in conflict with this Charter, as may be pre-
scribed by ordinance.

                   Article 26.     Compensation
  The Council shall fix the compensation of all City officers
and employees. The compensation of all officers and employees
shall be fixed by ordinance. Any fees received by any officer or
employee in connection with his official duties shall be paid by
him into the City treasury.

                     Article 27.     Pensions
  No complete pension plan shall be set up by the City for
any active or retired City official, employee, or member of the
police or fire department, unless provided, by an initiative
or referendum ordinance adopted by the electors of the City;
provided, however, that nothing herein shall prevent the offi-
                     lS69
ftes. Ch. lfO]              REGULAR SESSION                 3755
cers or employees of the City from accepting the benefits of
any Federal or State of California social security or old age
retirement plans, whereby the City is only a contributor with
the said officer or employee.
                 Article 28. Appointive Boards
   There shall be the Boards enumerated in this Article which
shall have the powers and duties as provided herein. The
appointment of persons to serve on these Boards shall be made
by the Mayor subject to the confirmation of a majority of the
City Council.
   The City Council, by a majority vote of all members thereof,
may remove any member of any Board for cause.
   Persons appointed to serve on such Boards shall hold office
for four years and for only two successive terms; provided,
however, that any person having served two successive terms
may be reappointed to fill an unexpired term of another mem-
ber after being off the Board for at least one year. After the
expiration of two years, any such former Board member may
be reappointed.
   Any person appointed to serve on such Boards shall be a
registered elector of the City and shall not hold any paid office
or employment in the City government or be a member of any
other Board as herein enumerated, or be a member of the City
Council, except as an ex officio member without vote.
   a. City Planning Board.
   There shall be a Planning Board consisting of seven mem-
bers, and shall have the following powers and duties:
    (1) Recommend to the Council the adoption, amendment, or
repeal of a General Master Plan, or any part thereof, for the
physical development of the City.
    (2) Exercise such functions with respect to land sub-
divisions, planning and zoning as may be prescribed by ordi-
nance or resolution.
    (3) Perform such other duties relating to planning and
zoning as the Council may require by ordinance or resolution,
or as may be prescribed by the General Laws of the State.
   b. Library Board.
   There shall be a Library Board consisting of five members
and shall have the following powers and duties:
    (1) Act in an advisory capacity to the Council and City
Manager in all matters pertaining to the operation of a public
library.
    (2) Kecommend to the City Council the adoption of such by
laws, rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for the
administration and protection of the City Library.
    (3) Perform such other duties relating to the library service
as the Council may require by ordinance or resolution.
   c. Museum Board.
   There shall be a Museum Board consisting of five members
and shall have the following powers and duties:
3756              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ R e s Q^   1%

   (1) Act in an advisory capacity to the Council and City
Manager in all matters pertaining to the operation of a public
museum.
   (2) Keeommend to the City Council the adoption of such by
laws, rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for the
administration and protection of the City Museum.
   (3) Perform such other duties relating to the museum serv-
ice as the Council may require by ordinance or resolution.
   d. Eecreation Board.
   There shall be a Recreation Board consisting of five members
and shall have the following powers and duties :
   (1) Act in an advisory capacity to the Council and City
Manager in all matters pertaining to the operation of a City
recreation program.
   (2) Recommend to the City Council the adoption of such
by laws, rules and regulations as it may deem necessary for the
administration and operation of a City recreation program.
   (3) Promote and stimulate public interest in a recreation
program and solicit to the fullest extent possible the coopera-
tion of school authorities and other public and private agencies
interested therein.
   (4) Perform such other duties relating to the recreation
program as the Council may require by ordinance or resolu-
tion.
             Article 29. Approving Illegal Claims
   Every officer who shall wilfully and knowingly approve,
allow, or pay, any demand on the treasury knowing it is not
authorized by law, shall be liable to the City individually and
on his official bond for the amount of the demand so approved,
allowed, or paid, and if an appointive officer, shall forfeit his
office and be forever disbarred and disqualified from holding
any position in the service of the City.

                      Article 30.   Budget
   The City Manager shall submit the annual fiscal year opera-
ting budget to the Council on or before the first Council meet-
ing in May. The budget shall contain an estimate of City
expenditures and anticipated revenues of the City from all
sources including fees, licenses, and excises for the ensuing
fiscal year. The classification of the estimate of expenditures
shall be as nearly uniform as possible for the main functional
divisions of all departments, and shall give in parallel columns
the following information:
   a. A detailed estimate of the expense of conducting each de-
partment as submitted by the department.
   b. Expenditures for corresponding items for the last two
fiscal years.
   c. Expenditures for corresponding items for the current
fiscal year, including adjustments due to transfers between
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 170]              REGULAR SESSION                   3757

appropriations plus an estimate of expenditures necessary to
complete the current fiscal year.
   d. Such other information as is required by the Council or
that the Manager may deem advisable to submit.
   e. The recommendation of the Manager as to the amounts
to be appropriated with reasons therefor in such detail as the
Council may direct.
   Sufficient copies of such estimate shall be prepared and sub-
mitted, that there may be copies on file in the office of the City
Clerk for inspection by the public, unless the Council shall
publish the same in the official newspaper.

           Article 31. Inventory of City Property
  A complete inventory of all real and personal property be-
longing to the City shall be prepared and kept current and
shall be open to inspection during normal business hours.

                 Article 32.   The Fiscal Year
   The fiscal year of the City shall commence on the first day
of July of each year or at such other time as may be fixed by
ordinance.
                     Article 33. Taxation
   Except as otherwise herein provided, the Council, by ordi-
nance, shall provide a system for the assessment, levy, collec-
tion, and equalization of taxes which, as nearly as may be, shall
conform to the system provided by the General Laws of the
State. The City shall have the privilege to enact by ordinance
a license and privilege tax and excise taxes for the purpose of
both regulation and revenue.

                Article 34. Annual Tax Levy
   The Council must finally adopt, not later than the second
regular meeting in August, an ordinance levying upon the
assessed valuation of all property in the City, a rate of taxa-
tion sufficient to raise the amounts estimated to be required in
the annual budget and as herein provided, less the amounts
estimated to be received from fines, licenses and other sources
of revenue.
   Should the Council fail to fix the tax rate within the time
prescribed, then the tax rate for the previous year shall con-
stitute the rate for the current year.

   Article 35. Limit and Apportionment of the Tax Levy
   The tax levy authorized by the Council to meet the munic-
ipal expenses for each fiscal year shall not exceed the rate of
One Dollar and Fifty-eight cents on each One Hundred Dol-
lars of the assessed valuation of the real and personal property
within the City, except as in this Charter otherwise provided.
The moneys collected from such levy shall be placed in the
3758              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [R es _ Qh. 170

general fund of the City and may be apportioned in separate
funds as determined by the Council.
  No transfer of money shall be made from one fund to an-
other, except of balance in excess of the amount required in a
fund or from the general fund to meet deficiencies, or to pro-
vide for the redemption of City bonds.
  The foregoing limitation shall not apply in the event of any
great necessity or emergency, in which case it may be tempo-
rarily suspended, provided that no increase over said limit,
except as herein prescribed, shall be made in any fiscal year,
unless authorized by ordinance adopted by the vote of the
electors of the City.

                Article 36.   Special Tax Levy
   The Council shall have power to levy and collect additional
taxes sufficient to pay interest on the bonded indebtedness of
the City and to pay and maintain the sinking fund thereof,
and for the following purposes only:
   a. For the acquisition and (or) construction, as the case may
be, of permanent public improvements, or real property, of
public buildings and structures including equipping and fur-
nishing the same, and the tax levied for any and all such pur-
poses combined shall not exceed fifteen cents on each one hun-
dred dollars of the assessed valuation of the real and personal
property within the City, and no such acquisition or construc-
tion shall be charged against the general tax levied to meet
current municipal expenses for each fiscal year.
   b. For the acquisition of equipment and supplies and pro-
vide training for personnel for a Civil Defense Program. The
tax levy for such purpose shall not exceed five cents on each
one hundred dollars of the real and personal property within
the City.
                     Article 37. Tax Liens
   All taxes and assessments levied, together with any percent-
age imposed for delinquency and the cost of collection, shall
constitute liens on the property assessed; every tax upon the
personal property shall be a lien upon the real property of the
owner thereof. The liens provided for in this section shall
attach as of the first Monday in March of each year, and may
be enforced by actions to foreclose such liens in any court of
competent jurisdiction, or by a sale of the property affected
and the execution and delivery of all necessary certificates
and deeds therefor, under such regulations as may be pre-
scribed by ordinance; provided that when real estate is offered
for sale for City taxes due thereon, the same shall be sold to
the City in like case and manner, and with like effect and right
of redemption as it may be struck off and sold to the State
when offered for sale for County taxes; and the Council shall
have power to provide by ordinance for the procedure to be
followed in such sales to the City and redemption thereafter.
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 170]                REGULAR SESSION                  3759

                Article 38. Deposit of City Moneys
   All moneys collected for the City by any officer or depart-
ment thereof shall be paid daily if possible, into the City
treasury, credited to the funds to which such moneys severally
belong.
             Article 39. Payment of City Moneys
   Money shall be drawn from the treasury only upon warrants
as herein prescribed. Every demand against the City, from
whatever source, must be presented to the City Manager. The
City Manager shall satisfy himself whether the money de-
manded is legally due and its payment authorized by law. If
he approves the demand he shall endorse thereon the word
" a p p r o v e d " and sign his name thereto. I t shall thereafter
be presented to the City Council and if by them allowed shall
be signed by the Mayor and City Clerk, and a warrant,
numbered and dated the same as the demand, issued and
signed by the same officers shall be drawn upon the treasury.
No demand shall be approved or paid unless it shall specify
each item of the claim and the date thereof.
   Provided, however, that warrants may be approved by the
City Manager and paid from the treasury without the necessity
of being presented to the Council for materials and supplies
and investments approved by law, if prior permission is so
granted by the City Council.
    Provided, however, that warrants for wages and salaries
shall be approved by the City Manager and paid regularly
from the treasury without the necessity of any demand therefor
or approval thereof as in this article prescribed for other
claims, and at such time, not in conflict with this Charter, as
may be prescribed by ordinance.

                    Article 40. Annual Audit
  The Council shall employ a Certified or a thoroughly qualified
Public Accountant annually to investigate and render a report
on the transactions and accounts of all officers or employees
having the collection, deposit, custody or disbursement of
public money or property, or the power to approve, allow or
audit demands on the treasury.

                     Article 41.    Franchises
  Every franchise or privilege to construct, maintain, or
operate any means or method of transportation on or over
any street, lane, alley, or other public place within the City, or
to lay pipes or conduits, or erect poles or wires or other struc-
tures in or across any public way or place, for the transmission
of gas, electricity, or other commodity, or for the use of public
property or places now or hereafter owned by the City, shall
be granted under and in pursuance to the General Laws of the
3760               STATUTES O F CALIFORNIA          [Ees. Ch. 170

State relating to the granting of franchises; provided, no new
franchise or the renewal of an existing franchise shall be
granted except upon the condition that at least two per cent
 (2 per cent) of the gross annual receipts derived from the use
of such franchise shall be paid the City. I n all cases the appli-
cant for a franchise shall advance the cost of advertising the
same.
   Every such franchise shall require the grantee thereof to
agree to a joint use of its property with others wherever
practicable, and nothing herein shall be construed as pro-
hibiting the Council from requiring other conditions in grant-
ing the same not inconsistent with the Constitution and
General Laws of the State. No franchise or privilege so
granted shall be sold, leased, assigned, or otherwise alienated,
without the express consent of the Council given by ordinance
and subject to the referendum.

                  Article 42.   Contract Work
   In the erection, improvement and repair of all public build-
 ings and works, in all street and sewer work, and in furnishing
 any supplies or materials for the same when the expenditure
 required for the same shall exceed the sum of Fifteen Hun-
 dred Dollars ($1,500.00), the same shall be done hy contract
 and shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder, after notice
 by publication in the official newspaper, and security for the
 due execution and performance of any such contract may be
 required by the bidder and successful contractor, respectively.
 The detailed procedure for carrying out the provisions of this
 Article shall be prescribed by ordinance.
   Provided, that the Council may reject any and all bids pre-
 sented and may readvertise in their discretion, and provided
further, that after rejecting bids the Council may declare and
 determine by a five-sevenths vote of all its members that in
its opinion the work in question may be more economically or
satisfactorily performed by day labor, or the materials or
supplies purchased at a lower price in the open market, and
after the adoption of the resolution to this effect, it may pro-
ceed to have the same done in the manner stated without
further observance of the foregoing provisions of this Article;
and
   Provided further, that in case of a great public calamity,
such as an extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic or other
disaster, the Council may, by resolution pass by a vote of
five-sevenths of all its members, declare and determine that
public interest and necessity demand the immediate expendi-
ture of public money to safeguard life, health or property,
and thereupon they may proceed to expend, or enter into a
contract involving the expenditure of any sum required in
such emergency, on hand in the City treasury and available
for such purpose.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 170]               REGULAR SESSION                 3761

                Article 43.    Street Improvements
   Proceedings for all public improvements which are to be
paid for by assessments on private property, shall be accord-
ing to the General Laws of the State, provided, however, that
prior to the institution of such proceedings, the Council shall
take the proceedings provided in Section 17, Article 13 of
the California Constitution or the determination of public
interest and necessity or otherwise comply with the provisions
of the Special Assessment, Investigation, Limitation and Ma-
jority Protest Act of 1931 as now or hereafter amended.

                 Article 44.    Illegal Contracts
   No member of the City Council, department head or other
officer of the City (except a member of any Board) shall be
financially interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract,
sale or transaction to which the City is a party.
   No member of any Board shall be financially interested
directly or indirectly, in any contract, sale or transaction to
which the City is a party and which comes before the Board
of which such person is a member or which pertains to the
department, office or agency of the City with which such
Board is connected.
   Any contract, sale or transaction in which there shall be
such an interest, as specified in this Section, shall become void
at the election of the City when so declared by resolution of
the City Council.
   No member of the City Council, department head or other
officer of the City, or member of any Board shall be deemed
to be financially interested, within the meaning of the fore-
going provisions, in any contract made with a corporation
where his only interest in the corporation is that of a stock-
holder and the stock owned by him shall amount to less than
three percent (3%) of all the stock of such corporation issued
and outstanding, or when his interest is only:
   a. That of a nonsalaried officer of a nonprofit corporation;
   b. That of an employee or agent of the contracting party,
if such contracting party has 10 or more other employees and
if the officer was an employee or agent of said contracting
party for at least three years prior to his initial acceping
his office.
   For the purposes of this subsection, time of employment
with the contracting party by the officer shall be counted in
computing the three-year period specified in this subsection
even though such contracting party has been converted from
one form of business organization to a different form of busi-
ness organization within three years of the initial taking of
office by such officer. Time of employment in such case shall
be counted only if, after the transfer or change in organiza-
tion, the real or ultimate ownership of the contracting party
3762              stfAWrfcs OF CALIFORNIA          [Ses. Ch. 1%

is the same or substantially similar to that which existed
before such transfer or change in organization. For the pur-
poses of this subsection, stockholders, bondholders, partners,
or other persons holding an interest in the contracting party
are regarded as having the "real or ultimate ownership" of
such contracting party.
   c. That of a parent in the earnings of his minor child for
personal services;
   d. That of a landlord or tenant of the contracting party;
   e. That of an attorney of the contracting p a r t y ; or
   f. That of a member of a nonprofit corporation formed
under the Agricultural Code or a nonprofit corporation formed
under the Corporations Code for the sole purpose of engaging
in the merchandising of agricultural products.
   g. That of a supplier of goods or services when such goods
or services had been supplied to the contracting party by the
officer for at least five years prior to his election or appoint-
ment to office.
   No officer or employee of the City shall aid or assist a
bidder in securing a contract to furnish labor, material or
supplies at a higher price or rate than that proposed by any
other bidder, or favor one bidder over another, giving or with-
holding information, or wilfully mislead any bidder in regard
to the character of the materials or supplies of a quality
inferior to that called for by the contract, or knowingly certify
to a greater amount of labor performed than has actually been
performed, or to the receipt of a greater amount of material,
or supplies than has actually been received. Any officer or em-
ployee violating any of the foregoing provisions of this Article
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be automatically expelled
from his office or employment.
   If at any time it shall be found that the person, firm or
corporation to whom a contract has been awarded by the City
has, in presenting any bid or bids, colluded with any officer
or employee of the City, or with any other party or parties
interested in the same bid or bids, then the contract so awarded
shall, if the City so elect, be null and void and the contractor
and his bondsmen shall be liable to the City for all loss or
damage which the City may suffer thereby. In such event the
Council may advertise for new bids for said work or supplies.

                 Article 45.   Official Eecords
  All books and records of every office and department shall
be open to inspection by any citizen during business hours,
subject to the proper rules and regulations for the efficient
conduct of the business of such department or office, provided,
the records of the police department shall not be subjected to
such inspection except by permission of the proper police
authorities. Information provided by taxpayers on which tax
assessments are based shall be confidential.
                      1969
Kes. Ch. 170]                REGULAR SESSION                 3763
   Copies or extracts, duly certified, from said books and rec-
ords open to inspection, shall be given by the officer having
the same in custody to any person demanding the same and
paying or tendering an established charge.
   AH officers and boards shall deliver to their successors all
papers, books, documents, records, archives and other prop-
erties pertaining to their respective offices or departments, in
their possession or under their control.

                Article 46. Newspaper Advertising
   The Council shall advertise annually for the submission of
sealed proposals or bids from all newspapers of general cir-
culation in the City, for the publication of all ordinances and
other legal notices required to be published. The newspaper to
which such contract is awarded shall be known and designated
as the Official Newspaper. The rates for publishing public
notices shall not exceed the customary rates charged for pub-
lishing legal notices of a private character.
   Contracts for advertising shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder of adequate circulation within the City.
   No employee of the newspaper having the advertising con-
tract shall be an employee of the City during the term of this
contract.
   We do further certify and declare that the foregoing con-
stitutes a true and correct statement of the actions and pro-
ceedings had by the City of Pacific Grove and the City Council
of said City, in the matter of the framing, proposal and sub-
mission of said proposed Charter for the government of the
City of Pacific Grove and in the calling, voting upon, and
canvassing the returns and declaring the results of said
election.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
hereto affixed the seal of said City of Pacific Grove, California,
this 9th day of May, 1969.
                                   EARL D. GRAFTON
                                   Earl D. Grafton
  (SEAL)                           Mayor of the City of
                                    Pacific Grove, California
                                   WILLIAM S. P I T T
                                   William S. Pitt
                                   City Clerk of the City of #
                                     Pacific Grove, California
and
   WHEREAS, The proposed revised charter, as adopted and
ratified as hereinabove set forth, has been and now is duly
submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for ap-
proval or rejection, as a whole without power of alteration or
amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of Artiele X I of the
Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
3764                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [Res. Ch. 171

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the revised Charter of the City of Pacific Grove, County
of Monterey, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by, the
electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth, is hereby
approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for
and as a revision of the Charter of the City of Pacific Grove,
County of Monterey.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 171
   Senate Joint Resolution No. 10—Relative to homeowners'
                     property tax rebate.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The increasing burden of property taxes on home-
owners is of nationwide concern; and
   WHEREAS, The California Legislature has provided for a
$70 rebate in 1969 of property taxes paid by homeowners for
the 1968-1969 fiscal year; and
   "WHEREAS, Under federal income tax law, this tax relief may
be reduced by the inclusion of the rebate as income for federal
income tax purposes; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cal-
ifornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to exclude the $70 homeowners' property
tax rebate from income for federal income tax purposes; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in
the Congress of the United States.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 172
Senate Joint Resolution No. 13—Relative to flood control in
              the Carpinteria Valley watershed.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, There exists in the Carpinteria Valley a severe
flooding problem which affects hundreds of homes, local
schools, valuable agricultural lands, highway and railroad
transportation, and the health and safety of the citizens re-
siding in the area; and
                        1969
Res. Ch. 173]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3765
   WHEREAS, Three separate floods devastated the Carpinteria
Valley in January 1969; and
   WHEREAS, A federally financed flood control project under
the provisions of Public Law 566 is proposed for the Car-
pinteria Valley watershed, which would eliminate the flooding
problem; and
   WHEREAS, Such flood control project has been found to be
economically feasible, and the watershed work plan, which
constitutes the feasibility report for such project, has been
submitted to the federal Administrator of the Soil Conserva-
tion Service for review and transmittal to the Congress; and
   WHEREAS, The urgent necessity for flood protection requires
quick action by the Congress and the Administrator of the
Soil Conservation Service in approving the work plan, author-
izing the project, and appropriating funds for the beginning
of engineering and construction; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully requests federal agencies to expedite their review
of the Carpinteria Valley Watershed Project Work Plan and
to forward their comments to the Administrator of the Soil
Conservation Service without delay; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Administrator of the Soil Conservation
Service is requested to approve the work plan and to include
the Carpinteria Valley Watershed Project in the group of
PL 566 projects to be submitted to the Congress in the near
future; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Soil Conservation Service and the
local sponsoring agencies are requested to cooperate with the
Department of Fish and Game in protecting and improving
wildlife conditions in the project area, and especially in de-
vising ways to enhance the management of El Estero Marsh
for such purposes; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Legislature memorializes the Congress
to approve, authorize, and appropriate funds for the begin-
ning of work on the Carpinteria Valley Watershed Project;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Administrator of the Soil Conservation
 Service, to the Speaker of the House of Eepresentatives, and
 to each Senator and Representative from California in the
 Congress of the United States.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 173
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 34—Relative to the naming
  of a state highway bridge in the memory of Officer Eugene
  A. Doran.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 22, 1969.]
3766               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Res. Ch. 174

  "WHEREAS, Eugene A. Doran was a patrolman for the town
of Hillsborough, San Mateo County, from April 1, 1956, until
his untimely death on August 5,1959; and
  WHEREAS, During the performance of his duties, on the
morning of August 5, 1959, Officer Doran was slain at the
hands of a criminal suspect whom he had apprehended; and
  WHEREAS, The tragic death of Officer Doran occurred on the
Junipero Serra Freeway near the Bridge over Crystal Springs
Road; and
  WHEREAS, It is fitting that the supreme sacrifice of Officer
Eugene A. Doran to the people of this state be given perma-
nent recognition; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the new bridge of the Ju-
nipero Serra Freeway (Route 280) over Crystal Springs Road
near Hillsborough, is hereby officially designated the Eugene
A. Doran Memorial Bridge; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Department of Public Works be di-
rected to erect appropriate signs and markers, consistent with
signing requirements for Interstate Highways, showing this
official dedication; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Public Works.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 174
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 118—Relative to the
       observance of American Physical Therapy Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 22, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t has come to the attention of the Members of
the Senate and Assembly that the American Physical Therapy
Association will observe its 48th anniversary and will hold its
46th annual conference in San Francisco from June 29 through
July 4, 1969; and
   WHEREAS, Approximately 2,000 of the 13,000 qualified physi-
cal therapists that the American Physical Therapy Association
represents will attend the conference; and
  WHEREAS, The scientific and business sessions of this con-
ference will contribute significantly to the health care of the
people of this state and the United States; and
   WHEREAS, In view of the excellent work that the physical
therapists perform in the interest of all mankind, it is fitting
and proper that their contributions be officially recognized;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is respectfully
requested to proclaim June 29 through July 5,1969, as "Amer-
ican Physical Therapy W e e k " ; and be it further
                        1969
Res. Ch. 176]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3767
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Honorable Ronald Reagan, Gov-
ernor of the State of California, and a suitably prepared copy
to the American Physical Therapy Association.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 175
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 141—Relative
              to California Nursing Home Week.
                [Plied with Secretary of State May 22, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, Nursing homes in California have embarked on
a "better life program" that will benefit the elderly and the
convalescent and chronically ill of all ages entrusted to their
care; and
   WHEREAS, There are in this state more than 1,300 licensed
nursing homes and related long-term-care facilities with a bed
capacity in excess of 60,000; and
   "WHEREAS, These facilities provide not only for the medical
and skilled nursing care needs of their patients, but also for
a broad range of services extending from personal care to phys-
ical, occupational, and recreational therapy, as well as for the
spiritual and social needs, all of which are designed to bring
about a better life for their patients; and
   "WHEREAS, The California Nursing Home Association is pro-
viding the leadership in promoting a better life for our elderly
citizens and for the convalescent and chronically ill of all
ages; and
   WHEREAS, The member homes of the California Nursing
Home Association are participating in the observance of Nurs-
ing Home Week, June 15-21, 1969; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of June 15 to 21, 1969, as California
Nursing Home Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 176
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 154—Relative
              to California Bee Industry Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 22, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, While the production of honey by California's
bee industry is its best-known activity, this is only one of the
important functions the industry serves; and
3768               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ReS. Ch. 177

   "WHEREAS, The beekeeping industry, in number of operators,
probably ranks as the smallest in the state's multi-billion-dol-
lar agricultural community; and
   WHEREAS, In spite of the small number of operators, bee-
keepers play a significant role in keeping California the lead-
ing agricultural area in the nation and world; and
   WHEREAS, California crops valued at more than $300 mil-
lion annually rely entirely on bees for pollination, and these
vital crops include almonds, prunes, cherries, apples, pears,
cantaloupes, melons, cucumbers, alfalfa and clover; and
   WHEREAS, Bees are also used in California to produce
75 percent of the nation's vegetable seed and 90 percent of
the world's flower seed; and
   WHEREAS, The acreage of crops depending on bees for pol-
lination is increasing and growers are using more colonies per
acre to obtain a more abundant harvest; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the members request Governor
Reagan to proclaim the week of June 1 through June 7 as
California Bee Industry Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 177
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 157—Relative to the
        Golden Chain Council of the Mother Lode, Inc.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 22, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Golden Chain Council of the Mother Lode,
Inc., organized in 1919, will celebrate its 50th anniversary year
at its annual meeting July 25, 1969, in Plaeerville; and
   WHEREAS, It is the oldest highway association in California,
originally known as the Mother Lode State Highway Associa-
tion, and was initially established to promote the improvement
of the route through the historic gold mining country con-
necting Auburn, Plaeerville, Jackson, San Andreas and
Sonora, and the inclusion of this route in the state highway
system; and
   WHEREAS, Assembly Bill No. 259 was passed on June 3,
1921, creating the "Mother Lode Highway," State Highway
49, to connect these five county seats, and an appropriation
was made for a survey, but no appropriation was made for
construction funds, so the association went to the public and
to principal mining companies for private funds to fix portions
of the road until public funding was available; and
   WHEREAS, A new movement was begun in 1949, culminating
on January 18, 1951, in the adoption by the Mother Lode
State Highway Association of an expanded program under the
                     1969
lies. Ch. 178]              REGULAR SESSION                   3769
new name of the Golden Chain Council of the Mother Lode
Highway 49; and
   WHEREAS, The first of the famous Golden Chain maps was
published on May 5, 1950, and this year the group will pro-
duce its two-millionth map promoting the highway as a " p e r -
petual monument to the memory of the pioneer f a t h e r s " ; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
Golden Chain Council of the Mother Lode, Inc., for its promo-
tion of the historic area served by the Mother Lode High-
way 49, its efforts to encourage and stimulate travel through-
out the area, and its work with local, state and federal
governments for the improvement and preservation of State
Highway 49; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copj^ of this resolution to the Golden Chain
Council of the Mother Lode, Inc.


                 KESOLUTION C H A P T E R 178
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 161—Relative to pro-
  claiming the week of August 31 through September 6, 1969,
  as Capitola National Begonia Festival Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 22, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Capitola National Begonia Festival, a must
for flower lovers everywhere, will be held the week of August
31 through September 6, 19G9; and
   WHEREAS, Volunteer community help each year has aided in
the growth of this event to an occasion of national prominence
and splendor; and
   WHEREAS, The begonia festival's inception was in 1953
when Mrs. Pat Antonelli and Mrs. John Benias visualized the
beauty of a festival featuring the delicate magnificence of the
begonia; and
   WHEREAS, Further support in 1954 by Capitola businessmen
enhanced the festival and emphasized the marvelous "all-
y e a r " weather of Capitola and its possession of the unique
conditions needed to produce glorious begonias; and
   WHEREAS, Over the years the festival has expanded to fea-
ture the selection of the Capitola National Begonia Festival
Queen, thus adding to the beauty and pageantry of the fes-
tival; and
   WHEREAS, The theme of the 1969 Capitola National Begonia
Festival Week is "Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow"; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members respectfully
3770               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Res. Ch. 179

request the Governor of the State of California to proclaim
August 31 through September 6, 1969, as Capitola National
Begonia Festival Week and urge all Calif ornians to attend this
noteworthy event; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor, and a suitably pre-
pared copy of this resolution to the National Begonia Festival
Association in Capitola-by-the-Sea.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER, 179
Senate Joint Resolution No. 9—Relative to state inspection
  and regulation of offshore oil and gas development opera-
  tions.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 23, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The coastline of California is of unique scenic
beauty and is one of the state's greatest natural resources; and
   WHEREAS, The coastal fish and wildlife resources of Cali-
fornia furnish a significant contribution to the state's econ-
omy; and
   WHEREAS, The California coast is under continuous hazard
from oil and gas development operations which may result in
oil escapement on federally controlled outer continental shelf
lands; and
   WHEREAS, The State of California and cities and counties
within the state have an exigent interest in offshore oil and gas
development operations conducted under federal leases and
survey permits but have no voice in the granting of such
leases and permits by the federal government; and
   WHEREAS, The State of California, acting through its Gov-
ernor and its legislative representatives, has requested that
the authority for inspection and control of offshore oil and
gas development in federally controlled areas beyond the
three mile limit be vested in the state; and
   WHEREAS, The Government of the State of California has
demonstrated a high degree of reliability in its inspection
of, and regulations over, oil and gas developments on all on-
shore and offshore lands within state boundaries; and
   WHEREAS, The transfer of the inspection function from
federal to state control would provide uniformity of protection
through uniform inspection and regulation practices; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to provide for the holding of a public hearing
within the affected local area of California, upon adequate
notice thereof, on the matter of any future oil and gas de-
velopment operation which would be conducted off the Cali-
                         1969
Res. Ch. 180]                   REGULAR SESSION                    3771

fornia coast whenever the granting of a federal lease or sur-
vey permit for any such operation is under consideration, such
hearing to be held prior to the granting of any such lease or
permit; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectively memorializes the President and the Congress of the
United States to provide for the immediate transfer of inspec-
tion and regulation of oil and gas developments off the Cali-
fornia coast outside the three-mile limit to the State of Cali-
fornia ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the enactment of legislation providing for
such transfer also provide the necessary funding to carry on
the inspection program; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of
the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, to the Secretary of the Interior, and to each Senator and
Representative from California in the Congress of the United
States.

                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 180
  Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 22—Relative                to the
           Crippled Children Services Program.
                [Piled with Secretary of State May 27, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Crippled Children Services Program, admin-
istered by the State of California, Department of Public
Health, has provided needed diagnostic, therapeutic, and re-
habilitative services of a high quality to children afflicted with
severe physical handicaps since 1927; and
   WHEREAS, Advances in medical science and technology, evi-
denced by the successful development of open heart and organ
transplant surgery, make possible the provision of medical care
to children afflicted with conditions previously deemed u n b e a t -
able ; and
   "WHEREAS, The list of eligible Crippled Children Services
medical conditions has the effect of excluding from treatment
children suffering from medically significant handicaps that
are not considered a part of the Crippled Children's Pro-
gram; and
   "WHEREAS, The cost of securing appropriate medical care for
certain handicapping conditions not included within Crippled
Children Services is catastrophic for low and middle income
families who are ineligible for publicly assisted medical pro-
grams and whose health insurance protection frequently is in-
adequate for these kinds of illnesses; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature enacted Assembly Bill 2024
 (Chapter 1316, Statutes of 1968) which for the first time in the
history of the Crippled Children Services Program granted
3772                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ReS. C h . 1 8 1

 statutory authority to the Director of Public Health to estab-
lish by administrative regulation eligible medical conditions
for the Crippled Children Services Program; and
   WHEREAS, There exists in the Department of Public Health
a State Crippled Children Services Advisory Committee con-
sisting of individuals whose expertise, advice, and dedication
have contributed significantly to the growth and improvement
of the Crippled Children Services Program; and
   WHEREAS, There are knowledgeable medical authorities in the
State of California who, though not members of the State Crip-
pled Children Services Advisory Committee, have nonetheless
contributed significantly to the development of the Crippled
Children Services Program; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature hereby re-
quests the Department of Public Health with the assistance of
the State Crippled Children Services Advisory Committee and
other medical authorities to identify those medical conditions
now excluded but deemed to be of sufficient priority as to war-
rant inclusion within the program and to report these findings
to the Secretary of Human Relations and to both houses of the
Legislature by the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular
Session of the Legislature; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Secretary of Human Relations,
the Director of Public Health and to members of the State
Crippled Children Services Advisory Committee.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 181
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 169—
                  Relative to Optimist Month.
              [Filed with Secretary of State May 27, 1969.]

   WHEBEAS, Optimist International is a community service
organization which was formed in 1919 and is celebrating its
50th anniversary this year; and
   WHEREAS, Optimist International has more than 400 clubs
and 14,000 members in California; and
   WHEREAS, The primary purpose of Optimist International
is to aid and encourage the development of youth and the
slogan adopted by the organization is " F r i e n d of the B o y " ;
and
  WHEREAS, Optimist International, through its clubs, spon-
sors a boys' oratorical contest, Youth Appreciation Week, Bike
Safety Week, and a Respect for Law program; and
  WHEREAS, The individual Optimist clubs sponsor numerous
and varying boys' work and community service projects; and
                         1969
Res. Ch. 182]                   REGULAR SESSION                 3773

  WHEREAS, The purposes of Optimist International are to
develop optimism as a philosophy of life, to promote an active
interest in good government and civic affairs, to inspire re-
spect for law and to foster patriotism, and to work for friend-
ship among all people; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Members request Governor
Reagan to proclaim the month of June 1969 as Optimist Month
in commemoration of Optimist International's 50th anni-
versary; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Reagan.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 182
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 117—Relative to the 50th
   anniversary of the Italian Federation of California, Inc.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 27, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature have learned that
the Italian-American Federation of California, Inc., is celebrat-
ing its 50th anniversary; and
   WHEREAS, Since its organization on January 30, 1919, at the
Casa Coloniale Fugazi in San Francisco, the federation has
sought to develop collective moral and political strength for
the common interest and for good citizenship; and
   WHEREAS, Through the years, the federation has retained its
original organization involving 36 different societies, the mem-
bers of which are of Italian extraction; and
   WHEREAS, The federation fosters interest in the study of the
mellifluous Italian language by sponsoring the Doposcuola, an
after-school Italian language school for grade school pupils,
and a committee of the federation maintains close liaison with
the Italian departments of local secondary schools and insti-
tutions of higher education; and
   WHEREAS, In years past, the federation founded the Italian
Hospital and Benevolent Association, which helped to build
and administer the Dante Hospital, which was subsequently
acquired by the United States government; and
   WHEREAS, Since 1923, the federation has conducted a Christ-
mas party for the Italo-American residents of the Laguna
Honda Hospital; and
   WHEREAS, The Italian Federation of California, Inc., has
participated in many worthwhile community ventures, such as
the Columbus Day celebration, the program for the beautifica-
tion of Washington Park, the program for improved library
facilities, and the encouragement and support of many cultural
and educational organizations; and
   WHEREAS, Recognizing that a democracy is only as effective
as the intelligent participation of its citizens in their self-
3774               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Bes. Ch. 183

government, the federation sponsors a "Candidates' Night"
before all elections so that the members may be introduced to
the candidates and their policies; and
   WHEREAS, The Italian Federation of California, Inc., is con-
scious of the enviable position which it has attained in civic
life, and is dedicated to continue its great traditions; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members heartily commend
the Italian Federation of California, Inc., upon the occasion of
its 50th anniversary and attend to it their every wish for con-
tinued success in all its endeavors; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Mr. Stephen Mana,
President of the Italian Federation of California, Inc.


               EESOLUTION CHAPTER 183
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 118-—Relative to the 50th
       anniversary of the Steuben Society of America.
             [Filed with Secretary of State May 27, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, The Steuben Society of America, an organization
of Americans of German descent, this year celebrates the 50th
 anniversary of its founding; and
   WHEREAS, Inspired by the deeds of Frederick William von
 Steuben, a Prussian Army general, whose services to General
George Washington and the fledgling Continental Army were
instrumental in this country's independence, the society, at the
suggestion of a United States Senator from California, chose
von Steuben as their patron and adopted his name for their
organization; and
   WHEREAS, Dedicated to preserving the principles of our Con-
stitution and the American ideal of government'' of, by and for
the people," the Steuben Society endeavors to establish co-
operation among its members in the exercise of their civic
duties and to encourage among them an active participation in
every phase of our national life; and
   WHEREAS, Proud of their Germanic heritage, the society and
its members strive to promote good will and friendly relations
with the Germanic peoples of Europe and to encourage the
teaching of German language courses in American schools;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members congratulate the
American Steuben Society on this, its 50th year of meritorious
service to Americans of German descent; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to the following named offi-
cers of the California State Council of the Steuben Society of
America: Mr. Adolph Schaumloeffel, Chairman; Mr. Herbert
                        1969
Res. Ch. 185]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3775

P. Tschoepe, Vice Chairman; Mr. Louis T. Kruger, Secretary;
and Mr. Robert G. "Webb, Treasurer.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 184
     Senate Joint Resolution No. 17—Relative to the Santa
              Paula Creek Flood Control Project.
                [Filed with Secretary of State May 27, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, In January and February of this year areas of
Santa Paula Creek in Santa Paula, California, were devastated
by disastrous flooding; and
   WHEREAS, Extensive damage to property, both public and
private, has been caused by the severe flooding which has
occurred this year; and
   WHEREAS, These events clearly manifest the critical need
for protective flood control works in Santa Paula Creek; and
   WHEREAS, The amounts allocated for this purpose in the
proposed federal budget for the next fiscal year are grossly
inadequate; and
   WHEREAS, The Santa Paula Creek Flood Control Project
is acknowledged as the most critical project in Ventura
County; and
   WHEREAS, The widespread demand for federal flood control
projects points to the need for establishing a priority program
in which the necessary funds are appropriated to immediately
undertake the most critical projects; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes Congress to appropriate the neces-
sary funds to immediately undertake the construction of the
Santa Paula Creek Flood Control Project; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 185
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 113—Relative
               to the observance of Memorial Day.
                [Piled with Secretary of State May 29, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Memorial Day will fall on Friday, May 30, 1969, a
national and state holiday; and
   WHEREAS, One of the purposes of Memorial Day is to recall
to all Americans, and especially to the youth of our great na-
tion, the sacrifices made since the formation of our country
    119—1954
 3776              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   [R e S . Ch. 186

 by the gallant men and women who have served in the armed
  forces during the times of our national conflicts, many of whom
 made the supreme offering of their lives in the defense of our
 land and of our liberties; and
    WHEREAS, The observance of Memorial Day officially began
 during the years immediately following the end of the Ameri-
 can Civil W a r ; and
    WHEREAS, Now, Memorial Day is dedicated to the eternal
 memory of all the deceased veterans of our national wars and
 periods of armed hostilities; and
    WHEREAS, In the City of Sacramento, a public program of
 observance of Memorial Day is planned for Friday, May 30,
 1969, including a parade at 10 a.m. in downtown Sacramento,
 followed by ceremonies at 11 a.m. in Memorial Grove in State
 Capitol Park, featuring an address stressing the significance
 of Memorial Day; and further commemorative services will be
 held during the course of the day, including ritualistic river
 ceremonies at 8:30 a.m. at the I Street Bridge, and in the
 Sacramento Veterans Memorial Cemetery on Fruitridge Road
 at 2 p.m.; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
 sembly thereof concurring, That the members urge all people
 who dwell in California to take special cognizance of Memorial
Day, May 30, 1969, and to be ever mindful of the magnificent
role performed in our national history by the veterans, now
 deceased, who have comprised our armed forces, and that the
members invite all people who dwell in the vicinity of Sacra-
mento to participate actively in the observance of Memorial
Day 1969 by sharing in the planned public program of exer-
cises in the Sacramento Memorial Day program sponsored by
the Veterans Affiliated Council and under the general chair-
manship of its commander, Edward L. Jones, assisted by Pa-
rade Chairman James C. Moody; and, be it further
    Resolved, That the members express their fullest thanks
and appreciation to the numerous organizations which consti-
tute the Veterans Affiliated Council in Sacramento and to
the many other societies and individuals who have made pos-
sible the Memorial Day program set for May 30, 1969; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to Edward L. Jones, General
Chairman, Memorial Day Program, Veterans Affiliated Coun-
cil in Sacramento; and to James C. Moody, Parade Chairman.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 186
Senate Joint Resolution No. 3—Relative to a water reclamation
             facility in the Sepulveda Dam Basin.
            [Piled with Secretary of State May 29, 1969.]
                   1969
Ees. Ch. 1861             REGULAR SESSION                 3777
   "WHEREAS, The U.S. Corps of Engineers has received plans
of the City of Los Angeles for a water reclamation facility
in the Sepulveda Dam Basin of the San Fernando Valley;
and
   "WHEREAS, The City of Los Angeles seeks only 86 acres
of undeveloped land for a 38-million-dollar water reclama-
tion-sewage treatment plant that would reclaim 200 million
gallons of water daily for purposes of irrigation, lakes, and
replenishment of the downstream spreading grounds; and
   "WHEREAS, Such a water reclamation plant would solve the
serious crisis which is developing with respect to the disposal
of sewage in the San Fernando Valley, as well as make
available free water to make green large areas of the Sepul-
veda Basin and of Griffith P a r k ; and
   "WHEREAS, In an arid region where generally there is little
rain and where water necessary for the future growth and
development of the region must be imported, water reclama-
tion should be encouraged to the fullest extent practicable;
and
   WTHEREAS, The construction of a water reclamation facility
in the Sepulveda Basin would not detract from the recrea-
tional value of that land in the basin which has been leased to
the city for recreational use, but would be a source of new
recreational benefits for the entire area; and
   "WHEREAS, The vital public interest in the construction of
this project warrants a prompt and thorough review by the
U.S. Corps of Engineers with full consideration being given
to recreation, water reclamation, sewage capacity, and the
future growth of the City of Los Angeles; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia respectfully memorializes the U.S. Army Corps of En-
gineers to accept the application of the City of Los Angeles
for permission to construct a water reclamation facility in
the Sepulveda Dam Basin of the San Fernando Valley in the
interest of the enhancement of the recreational resources of
the area, the provision of vitally needed water reclamation
and sewage capacity, and the insurance that the requirements
for the future growth and development of the City of Los
Angeles will be met; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Secretary of the Interior, to the Secre-
tary of the Army, to the Chief Engineer of the U.S. Army
 Corps of Engineers, to the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives, and to each Senator and Representative from Califor-
nia in the Congress of the United States.
 3778                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                    [ R e g (Jfr J § 7

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 187
        Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 184—Relative to
             memorializing Sheriff Eugene W. Biscailuz.
               [Filed with Secretary of State June 3, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature of the State of
  California are most sincerely and profoundly saddened by the
  death of Eugene W. Biscailuz, for 26 years Sheriff of Los
  Angeles County and a peace officer for more than half a
  century; and
    WHEREAS, Sheriff Biscailuz was born in Los Angeles on
 March 12,1883, attended Los Angeles schools, graduating from
 Saint Vincent's College, now Loyola University, and studied
 law at the University of Southern California; and
    WHEREAS, Mr. Biscailuz began his association with the Los
 Angeles County Sheriff's Department in 1907, and rose
 through the ranks to become undersheriff in 1921, and sheriff
 in 1932, a position he held with the overwhelming support of
 the voters of Los Angeles County until his retirement in 1959;
 and
    WHEREAS, Sheriff Biscailuz was also the first superintendent
 of the California Highway Patrol, which he helped to develop,
 beginning in 1929, into an efficient statewide law enforcement
 that is a model among state police organizations; and
    WHEREAS, He was a pioneer in the development of honor
 farms and honor ranches where trustworthy prisoners are
 given outdoor work and a chance for rehabilitation; and
    WHEREAS, Active in civic affairs in the Los Angeles area, he
 belonged to many fraternal, social, and benevolent organiza-
tions, and became, on his retirement as sheriff, president of
El Pueblo de Los Angeles Historical Monument Commission;
and
   WHEREAS, Sheriff Biscailuz was a true son of California and
Los Angeles, a descendant of pioneer families, and a link with
the old Pueblo de Los Angeles and the huge metropolis of
today; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their
deep regret on the passing of Sheriff Eugene W. Biscailuz and
extend their sincere condolences to his family and many
friends; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to Mr. Warren
Biscailuz, Mrs. Jean Mohr, and Mrs. Carol Donovan, the chil-
dren of Sheriff Biscailuz.
                         1969
Ees   Ch. 188]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3779

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 188
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 191—Approving a cer-
  tain amendment to the Charter of the City of Pasadena,
  State of California, ratified by the qualified electors of said
  city at a special municipal election held therein on April 24,
  1969.
                 [Piled with Secretary of State June 4, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The City of Pasadena, a municipal corporation in
the County of Los Angeles, State of California, contains a pop-
ulation of over 50,000 inhabitants, and has been, ever since
the year 1901, and now is, organized, existing and acting under
and by virtue of a freeholders' charter, adopted under and
by virtue of Section 8, Article XI, of the Constitution of the
State of California, which charter was duly ratified by a ma-
jority of the qualified electors of said city at a special election
held for that purpose on November 20, 1900, and approved by
the Legislature of the State of California, on January 29, 1901
 (Statutes of 1901, page 884), and amendments thereto dtdy
ratified by the qualified voters of said city and approved by
resolutions of said Legislature as set out in the certificate of
the Chairman of the Board of Directors and City Clerk of said
City of Pasadena, hereinafter set forth; and
   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been had for the proposal, adop-
tion and ratification of one amendment to the Charter of said
City of Pasadena, as set out in the certificate of the Vice
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Deputy City Clerk of
said City of Pasadena, as follows to wit:

CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION BY ELECTIONS OF THE CITY OF
          PASADENA OF ONE CHARTER AMENDMENT

State of California  "1
County of Los Angeles > ss
City of Pasadena      J

   We, the undersigned, Walter L. Benedict, Vice-Chairman of
the Board of Directors of the City of Pasadena, State of Cali-
fornia, and Dorothy E. Martin, Deputy City Clerk of said
city, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Pasadena, a municipal corporation in the
County of Los Angeles, State of California, now is and at all
times herein mentioned was a city containing a population of
more than 3,500 inhabitants, and now has a population of
over 50,000 inhabitants, and ever since the year 1901 has
been and now is organized, existing and acting under and by
virtue of a freeholders' charter, adopted under and by virtue
of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State
of California, which charter was duly ratified by a majority
of the qualified electors of said city at a special election held
for that purpose on November 20, 1900, and approved by the
3780              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 188

 Legislature of the State of California, on January 29, 1901
  (Statutes of 1901, page 884), and amendments thereto duly
 ratified by the qualified voters of said city and approved by
 the legislature.
    That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Ar-
 ticle X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
 Board of Directors of the City of Pasadena, being the legis-
 lative body thereof, on its own motion, by Ordinance No. 4912
 adopted by said board on February 25, 1969, duly and regu-
 larly proposed that there be submitted to the qualified electors
 of the City of Pasadena one proposal for the amendment of
 the Charter of said city, designated as "Charter Proposition
A " , to be voted upon by said qualified electors at a special
 election called and held for that purpose in said city on April
 24, 1969. That said election was duly and regularly called,
 authorized and provided for by said Board of Directors by
 Ordinance No. 4914, adopted on March 4, 1969, which said
 ordinance called said special election, for the submission of
 said amendment, to be held in said city on April 24, 1969, and
 that by said ordinance the said special election was by said
 Board of Directors duly and regularly consolidated with the
 general municipal election to be held on said date. That said
 election was duly and regularly called and held on said April
 24, 1969, which day was not less than forty, and not more
 than sixty days after the completion of publication and adver-
 tising of the proposed amendment aforesaid in the official news-
paper.
    That said proposed amendment was published and adver-
tised in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Consti-
tution of the State of California, and in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter of the City of Pasadena in the Star-
News, a daily newspaper of general circulation, published in
said City of Pasadena, and the official newspaper of said city,
and in each edition thereof during the day of publication.
    That copies of said proposed amendment were printed in
convenient pamphlet form and in type of not less than ten
point, and until the day fixed for the said election, and as
required by Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution and
by the Charter of the City of Pasadena, a notice was adver-
tised and published in the Star-News, the same being a news-
paper of general circulation in said city, that copies thereof
might be had upon application therefor at the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Pasadena.
    That such copies could be had upon application therefor
at the office of the City Clerk of said city until the day fixed
for said election. That a copy thereof was mailed to each of
the qualified electors of said city as required by law.
    That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Ar-
ticle X I of the Constitution and of the Charter of said City
of Pasadena and said ordinances of the legislative body thereof,
said special election was held in the said City of Pasadena on
                     1969
Res. Ch. 188]               REGULAR SESSION                3781

April 24, 1969, and that pursuant to the provisions of Section
8 of Article X I of the Constitution and of said Charter and
said ordinances the said proposed Charter amendment was
submitted to the qualified electors of said city for their rati-
fication at said election, and that at said election a majority
of the qualified electors voting thereon voted in favor of the
ratification of and did ratify the said proposed amendment
to the Charter of said city hereinafter set forth.
   That, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of
the City of Pasadena and with the law in such cases made and
provided, the Board of Directors of the City of Pasadena met
on April 28, 1969, at the time fixed by the Charter and after
a continuance to May 2, 1969, did duly and regularly canvass
the returns of said election, and on May 2, 1969, the said Board
of Directors did duly find, determine and declare the result
of said special election as determined from the canvass of the
returns thereof aforesaid to be that a majority of the qualified
electors of said city voting on said proposed amendment had
voted for, ratified and adopted said amendment.
   That the said amendment to the Charter so ratified by the
electors of the City of Pasadena is in words and figures as
follows:
                   "CHARTER PROPOSITION       A"

  That Article XV of the Charter of the City of Pasadena be
amended to read:

                "Article XV The Fire and Police
                        Retirement System
   Section 1501. Retirement System.
   In order to continue in force, with such modifications as
are set forth in this Article, provisions already existing for
retirement and death benefits for members of the Fire and
Police Departments of the City, the Pasadena Fire and Police
Retirement System, hereinafter referred to as the Retirement
System or the System, is hereby established. The legislative
body of the city may exclude from membership in the Retire-
ment System persons employed on a temporary or part-time
basis, but for the purpose of the Retirement System, persons
serving a probationary period requisite to appointment to a
regular position shall not be considered as on a temporary
basis. The legislative body by a vote of not less than five (5)
of its members, is hereby empowered to enact any and all
ordinances necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this
Article provided that the said legislative body, through the
Retirement Board, shall secure an actuarial report of the cost
and effect of any proposed change in the benefits under the
Retirement System, before the adoption of an ordinance to
submit any proposed Charter amendment providing for such
change.
3782               STATUTES OF CALIFOENIA           [EeS. Ch. 188

   Section 1502. Retirement Board.
   The Retirement System shall be managed by a Retirement
Board hereby created, which shall be the successor to and have
the powers and duties of the Fire and Police Pension Board
of the City of Pasadena, heretofore created and effective and
now by this Article superseded by the Retirement Board. The
Retirement Board shall consist of one member of the legisla-
tive body of the city to be selected by and to serve at the pleas-
ure of the said legislative body, two qualified electors of the
City of Pasadena' not connected with the government thereof,
to be appointed by the legislative body, and two members
elected under the supervision of the Retirement Board from the
active members of the Retirement System, who shall not include
persons retired under the Retirement System or under any
other Municipal, County or State retirement or pension plan,
provided that immediately after the effective date hereof, the
chairman of the said legislative body shall appoint two mem-
bers from such active members of the Retirement System to
serve until the election of such two members, which shall not
be more than six months after the effective date hereof, hereby
defined as the first day of the July next following ratification
of this amendment by the Legislature. One of such two mem-
bers shall be a member of the Fire Department and one a
member of the Police Department, and the election of each
of such two members shall be confined to the group from which
the member must be chosen. The term of office of the four
members, other than the member appointed from the legisla-
tive body of the City, shall be four years, one term expiring
each year, provided that immediately after the election of the
two members from the Fire and Police Departments, they
shall draw lots for terms of one, two, three and four years,
respectively. The members of the Retirement Board shall serve
without compensation. The Retirement Board shall appoint a
secretary to hold office at its pleasure, and when necessary em-
ploy a consulting actuary.
   The Retirement Board, shall have the sole power and au-
thority under such general ordinances as may be adopted by
the legislative body to hear and determine all facts pertaining
to applications for and awards of any benefits under the
Retirement System, or any matters pertaining to the admin-
istration thereof. Said Retirement Board shall have exclusive
control of the administration and investment of such fund or
funds as may be established and all investments shall be sub-
ject to the same terms, limitations and restrictions as are im-
posed by the Constitution and laws of the State upon the
investment of the Public Employees' Retirement System
Funds, as now enacted or hereafter amended.
   Disbursement of retirement funds shall be made upon de-
mands duly audited in the manner prescribed in this Charter
for disbursement of public funds. The City Treasurer shall be
the custodian of any such retirement funds, subject to the
                     1969
Res. Ch. 188]               REGULAR SESSION                   3783

control of the Retirement Board as to the administration and
investment of said funds.
    Section 1503. Actuarial Tables, Rates and Valuations.
    The mortality, service and other tables and rates of contri-
butions for members as recommended from time to time by
the actuary and the valuations determined by him from time
to time and approved by the Retirement Board shall be final
and conclusive and the contributions of the City and members
to the Retirement System shall be based thereon.
    Section 1504. Definitions.
    (a) "Compensation", as distinguished from benefits under
the Workmen's Compensation laws of the State of California,
shall mean the remuneration prescribed by the city in cash,
without deduction except for absence from duty, for time
during which the individual receiving such remuneration is in
the employ of the city in either or both the Fire and Police
Departments. Compensation based on overtime put in by a
member shall be excluded from all computations in which
compensation is a factor.
    (b) " S e r v i c e " shall mean time during which an individual
is employed in either or both the Fire and Police Departments
 of the city for compensation. Absence from duty without com-
pensation due to any cause other than disability retirement as
hereinafter provided, shall not be deemed service for the city.
 The legislative body, however, may fix the number of months
 per year to be required for a year of service and proportionate
 parts thereof, but not more than one year shall be credited
 for all service in any year.
     (c) "Compensation earnable" shall mean the compensation
 as determined by the Retirement Board, which would have
 been earned had the member received compensation without
 interruption throughout the period under consideration and
 at the rates attached to the ranks or position held by a member
 during such period. The computation for any absence of a
 member shall be based on the compensation earnable in the
 rank or position held by the member at the beginning of the
 absence and that, for the time prior to becoming a member of
 the Fire or Police Department, shall be based on the compen-
 sation earnable by the member in the rank or position first
 held by the member in such Department.
     (d) "Retirement allowance ", " death allowance ", or "allow-
 ance" shall mean equal monthly payments for life unless a
  different term of payment is provided by the context, provided
  that any person to whom or on whose account benefits are
  payable, may elect to have the actuarial equivalent of that
  portion of such benefits which is not continued automatically
  to his surviving wife or children, paid in different form, all
  subject to such restrictions, regulations and conditions as may
  be prescribed by the legislative body, but the action of the
  legislative body shall not prevent such benefits when elected
  by a member, from taking the form of cash refund annuities,
 3784                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA              [ E e S . C h . 188

  as applied to the member's accumulated contributions only, or
  reversionary annuities, these terms to have the meaning com-
  monly accepted in standard life insurance practice.
      (e) " A n n u i t y " shall mean equal monthly payments for
  life, unless a different term of payment is provided by the
  context, derived from contributions made by the member.
      (f) " F i n a l compensation" shall mean the highest average
  monthly compensation earnable by a member during any
  period of three consecutive years. In the calculation of "final
  compensation'', periods of service separated by breaks in service
  may be aggregated to constitute a period of three consecutive
  years, if the periods of service are consecutive except for such
  breaks. If a break in service did not exceed six months in
  duration, time included in the break and compensation earn-
  able during such time shall be included in the computation
  of final compensation. If a break in service exceeded six
  months in duration, only the first six months thereof and the
  compensation earnable during those six months shall be in-
  cluded in the computation of final compensation. F o r the pur-
  poses of this paragraph, absence from duty without compensa-
  tion, because of disability retirement, is not a break in service.
      (g) "Employee" shall mean "officer or employee".
      (h) "Member" shall mean a member of the Retirement
  System unless clearly indicated otherwise.
      (i) " I n t e r e s t " shall mean interest at the rate adopted by
 the Retirement Board.
      (j) The disability referred to herein as a basis for retire-
 ment shall mean disability of permanent duration, except dis-
 abilities determined by the Retirement Board, predicated upon
 best medical opinion, to be of an extended and indefinite du-
 ration.
     (k) For the purposes of the Retirement System, ages of
 members used in the calculation of allowances shall be taken
 to the next lower completed quarter year.
     (1) Any fire or police service performed outside the limits
of the city by a member of the Retirement System under the
orders of a superior officer of any such member, shall be con-
sidered as performed within the scope of a member's employ-
ment, and any disability or death incurred therein shall be
covered under the provisions of the Retirement System.
     (m) For the purposes of the Retirement System, "member
of the Fire Department" or "member of the Police Depart-
ment", shall include any officer or employee of either of such
departments whose principal duties are to prevent and extin-
guish fire or to preserve the peace, prevent injury to life and
property, or to suppress crime or disorder, and shall exclude
persons whose principal duties are those of civilian personnel
such as, but not limited to, administrative analyst, training
coordinator, technical specialist, housing inspector, telephone
operator, clerk or stenographer, machinist or mechanic, or
other similar duties clearly not falling within the foregoing
                    1969
Res. Ch. 188]              REGULAR SESSION                 3785

 regular fire or police duties, even though such persons may
 be called upon occasionally to perform such regular fire or
 police duties; provided that the foregoing exclusions shall not
 apply to members of the System who are reassigned to per-
 form any of the excluded duties. After the effective date
 hereof, the maximum age at which any person, except a per-
 son employed as Chief of the Fire Department or Chief of
 the Police Department may become or reenter as a member of
 either the Fire or Police Department, shall be thirty-four
 years notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this
 Charter.
    Section 1505. Age Exception for Temporary or Part-Time
 Employees.
   As an exception to the maximum age requirement of the
preceding section, if the City Manager finds that persons
 under thirty-five years of age are not available for member-
ship in either of said departments because of conditions
brought about by war, he may employ a person over thirty-
four years of age in either of said departments on a tempo-
rary or part-time basis and such person shall not be entitled
to membership in the Retirement System. Authority given to
the City Manager under this Section shall terminate after the
expiration of one year after the end of the war on a date to
be determined by the legislative body of the city.
   Section 1506. Restrictions on Retired Persons.
   No person retired for service or disability receiving a re-
tirement allowance under the Retirement System shall serve
in any appointive position in the service of the city, including
memberships on Boards or Commissions, nor shall such per-
son receive any payment for service, except in an elective
office, rendered to the City after retirement, provided that
service as an election officer or juror shall not be affected by
this section.
   Section 1507. Reductions of Benefits.
   That portion of any allowance which is provided by con-
tributions of the city, payable by the Retirement System pur-
suant to Sections 1509.3, 1509.31, 1509.6(b) or (c), or 1509.71
because of the death or retirement of any member shall be
reduced, in the manner fixed by the legislative body, by the
amount of any benefits payable to or on account of such mem-
ber, under the Workmen's Compensation laws of the State of
California, where such Workmen's Compensation benefits are
payable for the same cause which resulted in such allowance.
Said reduction shall apply to any allowance or other benefit
provided by city contributions under this Article, whether the
recipient of the allowance or benefit hereunder is the recipient
of the Workmen's Compensation payments or not. Benefits in-
cluded and payable under such Workmen's Compensation laws
for temporary disability payments prior to retirement or for
medical, surgical, and hospital treatment, and expenses of
burial, and attorney's fees, shall not be deemed benefits here-
3786               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. C h . 188

under. In like manner said portion shall be reduced by the
 amount of any pension paid to or on account of the death of
such member from funds of the United States, State of Cali-
fornia or any political subdivision thereof, on account of, or on
the basis of service credited under the Retirement System,
 except social security payments or pensions paid on account of
service in the armed forces of the United States.
   Section 1508. Existing Allowances.
    (a) Retirement or death allowances existing in favor of or
on account of members of the Fire or Police Departments at
 the time of the effective date of this Article, shall be continued
in force, including a remarried widow during any period of
time when she is unmarried by reason of the death of, annul-
ment or divorce from a succeeding husband, and shall be paid
by the Retirement System. Allowances which were effective,
because of a member's retirement or death before retirement,
 after November 5, 1968, and prior to the effective date hereof,
shall be adjusted to the new basis of all benefits provided in this
Article XV upon the election by the member or surviving wife
to accept the modifications provided in this amendment.
    (b) Every retirement or death allowance presently payable
pursuant to the 1935 System as heretofore modified for time,
to or on account of a person who died as a member or retired
on or after July 1, 1935, and prior to the effective date of this
 section, shall from and after the effective date hereof and upon
the election by the member or his surviving wife within 180
days of the effective date of this amendment, be adjusted
annually in accordance with Section 1509.8 hereof. Such an-
nual adjustments shall not be retroactive but shall only be
from and. after the effective date hereof.
    (c) The provisions of these subparagraphs (a) and (b) do
not apply to persons receiving benefits pursuant to Charter
provisions in effect prior to July 1, 1935, nor to any widow
of a member who had remarried on or before November 5,
1968, and to whom the member's contributions had been paid.
   Section 1509. Benefit and Contribution Requirements.
   Persons who shall be members of the Fire and Police Re-
tirement System on the effective date hereof shall remain
members of the System upon such date and shall retain all
rights under the System theretofore in effect. All persons who
shall become members of the Fire or Police Departments after
the effective date hereof, shall become members of the Retire-
ment System forthwith and all members of the System who
elect to take the new benefits and pay the contributions re-
quired from the effective date of the amendment shall be sub-
ject to the provisions of this Article XV, as modified by this
amendment.
   Section 1509.1. Service Retirement; 15 Years Service;
Age 50.
   Members may retire upon or after attaining age 50 provided
that a member shall at the effective date of election to retire
have rendered at least 15 years of Service.
                     1969
Ees   Ch. 188]              REGULAR SESSION                   3787

    Section 1509.12. Service Eetirement; 25 Years Service.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter, mem-
 bers may exercise their option to retire provided they shall
 at the effective date of election to retire have rendered at least
 25 years of Service.
    Section 1509.13. Service Eetirement; Compulsory at Age
60.
   Members must retire at the age of 60 years, provided that
the Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief of the Police
Department, or the Assistant Director of Civil Defense hold-
ing such office on January 1, 1967, who attains the age of
60 years as a member of the System, may be retained in
service as such chief, or such director, at the option of the
City Manager, but such retention shall not extend beyond the
age of 65 years. Such retained chief or retained director shall
continue to be a member of the System.
   Section 1509.14. Service Eetirement; Dismissal.
   Dismissal of a member from service for any cause after
the member has qualified as to age and service for service
retirement shall not deprive such member of the right to
retire for service.
   Section 1509.15. Service Eetirement; Eetirement Allow-
ance.
    (a) Members have the optional right to retire for service
as set forth herein upon electing the right to so retire and
upon retirement for service shall receive a service retirement
allowance equal to 1/50 of the member's final compensation,
times the member's number of years of service, times an actu-
arial equivalent at his actual retirement age as set forth in
the following table, provided that in no event shall the initial
service retirement allowance exceed 75 percentum of the mem-
ber's final compensation:

        Age at                                   Actuarial
      Eetirement                                Equivalent
          46                                      .8226
          47                                      .8678
          48                                      .9085
          49                                      .9522
          50                                     1.0000
          51 and over                            1.0516

   (b) The following table of age at retirement and actuarial
equivalents shall be operative in whole or in part to the calcu-
lations set forth in subparagraph (a) of this Section when
the cost to the City as contribution for service for current
and past service, excluding contributions of and concerning
charter provisions in effect prior to July 1, 1935, does not
exceed 14.50 per cent of members' compensation paid during
the said year the said following table becomes operative. If
as the result of a periodical actuarial valuation and investi-
3788               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [ R e s . Qh. 188

gation taking into consideration reductions in prior service
obligations of City and the earnings of the Fund, the fore-
going conditions are met, the Board of Directors shall, by
ordinance or resolution, establish the effective date of the new
retirement rates which date shall be within 90 days of the
filing of the said actuarial report.
   Said equivalents shall be applicable only to those members
retiring after said valuation, investigation and determination
by the said Board of Directors and subject to the formula
and limitations of subparagraph (a) of this Section:

         Age at                                Actuarial
       Eetirement                             Equivalent
           52                                  1.1078
           53                                  1.1692
           54                                  1.2336
           55 and over                         1.3099
   Section 1509.3. Service Connected Disability Eetirement.
   Members shall be retired for disability, regardless of age
or amount of service, if incapacitated for the performance of
duty as the result of injury or illness incurred in the per-
formance of duty.
   Section 1509.31 Service Connected Disability Retirement;
Allowance.
   Upon retirement for disability resulting from injury or
illness incurred in performance of duty, members shall receive
a disability retirement allowance of 50 percentum of the mem-
ber's final compensation. If such member might otherwise
elect to retire for service at a greater retirement allowance
pursuant to the provisions hereof, he shall elect either the
higher service retirement allowance or the disability retire-
ment. Such election shall be irrevocable by the member there-
after.
   Section 1509.32. Non-Service Connected Disability Eetire-
ment.
   Members shall be retired regardless of age but only after
ten years of service to the city in either or both the Fire and
Police Departments if incapacitated for the performance of
duty as the result of an injury or illness not incurred in the
performance of duty.
   Section 1509.33. Non-Service Connected Disability Eetire-
ment; Allowance.
   Upon retirement for disability resulting from injury or
illness not incurred in the performance of duty, a member
shall receive a disability retirement allowance of 1£ percentum
of the member's final compensation, multiplied by the number
of years of service in either or both the Fire and Police De-
partments credited to the member if such allowance exceeds
i of the member's final compensation; otherwise, 1^ per-
centum of the member's final compensation, multiplied by the
                     1969
Kes. Ch. 1881               REGULAR SESSION                 3789

 number of years which would be creditable to the member
 were the member's service to continue until the member's
  attainment of the age of 55 years, but such allowance shall not
 exceed \ of the member's final compensation. If such member
 might otherwise elect to retire for service at a greater retire-
 ment allowance pursuant to the provisions hereof, he shall
 elect either the higher service retirement allowance or the dis-
 ability retirement. Such election shall be irrevocable by the
 member thereafter.
    Section 1509.34. Disability; Reinstatement.
    If the disability for which a member was retired shall cease
 to the extent necessary to enable him to perform the duties
 of the rank or position he held at the time of retirement, the
 member's allowance shall cease at the option of the Retirement
 Board, and the member shall be reinstated at the rank and in
 a position of the same grade as the member occupied at the
 time of retirement. The member's individual account shall be
credited with an amount which is the actuarial equivalent of
the member's annuity at that time as based on a disabled life,
but not exceed the amount of the member's accumulated con-
tributions at the time of the member's retirement for disability.
The amount so credited to the member's individual account
shall be administered as contributions deducted from the mem-
ber's compensation. Upon retirement at any time thereafter,
the member shall receive service credit for the time during
which the member was retired for disability, but the member
shall not be required to make contributions for such time. If,
following reinstatement, the member does not enter upon the
duties of the member's position, and is not qualified for service
retirement, the member shall be subject to the provisions of
Section 1509.4 hereof. This Section shall not apply to any
member who shall have been qualified for and who shall have
elected previously service retirement rather than disability
retirement.
    Section 1509.4. Deferred Retirement.
    Should any member be separated from service of the city
through any cause other than death or retirement, then all of
the member's contributions, with interest, shall be refunded
to the member, provided that if such member is entitled to be
credited with at least ten years of service, the member shall
have the right to elect within ninety days after said termina-
tion of service, whether to allow the member's accumulated con-
tributions to remain in the Retirement Fund. Such election
shall become void upon such person's employment in a posi-
tion requisite for membership in this System, and may be
revoked by such person at any time prior thereto. Upon such
revocation, the member's accumulated contributions shall be
refunded to the member. Failure to make an election during
the said 90-day period shall be deemed an irrevocable election
to withdraw the member's accumulated contributions.
3790              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [Res. Ch. 188

   A member whose membership continues under this section
is subject to the same age requirement as applies to other
members for service retirement, but is not subject to a
minimum service requirement. After the qualification of such
member for retirement by reason of age for service retire-
ment and only then, the member shall be entitled to receive
a retirement allowance based upon the amount of the mem-
ber's accumulated contributions and service standing to the
member's credit at the time of retirement and on the employer
contributions held for the member and calculated in the same
manner as for other members.
   Section 1509.41. Reentry; Adjustment of Contribution
Rate.
   If a member who has separated from service and who has
elected to continue his membership pursuant to Section 1509.4
shall again become an employee of either the Fire Depart-
ment or the Police Department, on reentry the member's rate
of contributions for the future shall be adjusted by the actuary
as necessary, by adding to his original age for contribution
purposes the number of years said member was out of service
in either the Fire Department or the Police Department.
   Section 1509.5. Refund of Contributions.
   Member's contributions made under Sections 1509.81 and
1509.9 hereof, shall be credited to the individual account of
the member from whose compensation they were deducted,
and no amendment to this Charter or repeal thereof shall
prevent the payment to the member or member's beneficiary,
of such contributions made prior to the effective date of such
amendment or repeal, with interest, upon separation from
service of the city, for reason by other than retirement, as
provided herein, or the application of such contributions, with
interest, toward providing the member's retirement or death
allowance, as the case may be.
   Section 1509.6 Retirement Allowance; Dependent Con-
tinuation of at Death of Member.
   (a) Upon the death of any member receiving a retirement
allowance pursuant to the provisions of Sections 1509.1,
1509.12, 1509.15, 1509.33 or 1509.4 hereof, 60% of the mem-
ber's retirement allowance shall, if not modified in accordance
with one of the optional settlements now or hereafter speci-
fied by ordinance, be continued throughout life or until re-
marriage, to the surviving wife.
    (b) Upon the death of any member receiving a service
connected disability retirement allowance pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 1509.3 and 1509.31 hereof, 100% of the
member's retirement allowance shall be continued throughout
life or until remarriage, to the surviving wife.
    (c) If there be no surviving wife or if she dies or re-
marries before every unmarried child of such deceased mem-
ber attains the age of 21 years, then the allowance which
would otherwise be paid to the surviving wife had she quali-
                     1969
Res. Ch. 1881               REGULAR SESSION                  3791
fied and lived and not remarried, shall be paid to such child
or children under said age of 21 years, collectively, to continue
until every such child dies or attains age 21 or marries, or
unless the subsequent marriage of the widow is terminated
by the death of, annulment or divorce from a succeeding hus-
band; provided that no child shall receive any allowance
after marrying or attaining the age of 21 years. No allowance
shall be paid under this Section to a surviving wife unless
the surviving wife was married to the member at least one
 (1) year prior to his date of retirement.
   The remarried widow shall have the right to receive a
continuation of her monthly allowance during any period of
time in the future when she is unmarried by reason of the
death of, annulment or divorce from a succeeding husband.
   Section 1509.61. Refund of Dependent Contributions; to
Dependents.
   If the payment of the allowance for surviving wife or child
or children of a member as set forth in Section 1509.6 hereof
terminates by death of the widow and because of the death,
attainment of age 21 by or marriage of every child or children
before the sum of the monthly payments made shall equal the
sum of the member's dependent contributions, with interest
thereon, as it was at his retirement, then an amount equal
to the difference between said sums shall be paid in one
amount to the surviving children of the deceased member,
share and share alike.
   Section 1509.62. Refund of Dependent Contributions; to
Member.
   If at the date of retirement for service or disability, service
connected or non-service connected, a member has no wife or
child or children qualifying under this Article XV for de-
pendent continuation allowance, the dependent contributions
made by the member, with accumulated interest thereon, shall
be paid to the member upon said date.
   Section 1509.7. Death of Member Prior to Retirement;
Death Benefit.
   Upon the death of a member, before retirement, the Retire-
ment System shall be liable for and shall pay a death benefit
consisting of either or both of the following:
   (a) The member's accumulated contributions, with interest
thereon, to be paid to the member's estate or to such person
having an insurable interest in the life of the member if the
member shall nominate by written designation duly executed
and filed with the Retirement Board.
   (b) An amount of money equal to the member's compensa-
tion earnable during the 6 months immediately preceding the
death of the member to be paid only to the member's surviving
spouse, child or children or dependent father or mother.
   The foregoing death benefits shall be paid in monthly in-
stallments in accordance with Sections 1509.71 and 1509.72
hereof, except where a lump sum is specified.
3792              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 188

   Section 1509.71. Service Connected Death; Prior to Retire-
ment.
   If, in the opinion of the Retirement Board, the death of a
member, prior to retirement be the result of injury or illness,
incurred in the performance of duty, the Retirement System
shall be liable for and shall pay as follows:
    (a) An amount sufficient, when added to the amounts pro-
vided in Section 1509.7 (a) and (b), but excluding the mem-
ber's accumulated additional contributions, to provide when
applied according to tables and rates recommended by the
actuary and approved by the Retirement Board, a monthly
death benefit allowance equal to i of the member's final com-
pensation, to be paid to the surviving wife to whom said mem-
ber was married at the time of sustaining the said injury or
illness, to continue throughout her life or until her remarriage;
or if there be no surviving wife, or if she dies or remarries
before every unmarried child of such deceased member shall
have attained the age of 21 years, then to such child or chil-
dren under said age collectively, to continue until every such
child dies, attains said age, or marries, or unless the subsequent
marriage of the widow is terminated by the death of, annul-
ment or divorce from the succeeding husband; provided that
no child shall receive any allowance after attaining the age of
 21 years or marriage. If payment of the allowance be stopped
because of the death of the surviving wife and attainment of
the age of 21 years by or marriage of a child before the sum of
the monthly payments shall equal the sum of the amounts
provided in Section 1509.7 (a) and (b), then an amount equal
to the difference between said sum shall be paid in one amount
to the surviving children of the deceased member share and
share alike.
   The remarried widow shall have the right to receive a con-
tinuation of her monthly allowance during any period of time
 in the future when she is unmarried by reason of the death of,
 annulment or divorce from a succeeding husband. The widow
 shall have no right to withdraw the said remaining balance, if
 any, of Sections 1509.7 (a) and (b).
   Section 1509.72. Non-Service Connected Death; Prior to
Retirement.
    (a) If, in the opinion of the Retirement Board, the death
of a member, prior to retirement hereunder, be not the result
of injury or illness incurred in the performance of duty, and
if said member be qualified at the date of death for retire-
ment for service, pursuant to this Article XV, then, the
Retirement System shall be liable for and shall pay an amount
sufficient, when added to the amounts provided in Section
 1509.7 (a) and (b) hereof, to provide an allowance to be paid
 to the surviving wife to whom said member was married at
least one (1) year prior to his death, to be equal in amount
 to the allowance which would have been payable to her if
 the said member had retired for service at the time of his
                     1969
Res. Ch. 188]               REGULAR SESSION                  3793

death and had died instantly thereafter, and to continue
throughout her life or until her remarriage, or if there be
no surviving wife, or if she dies or remarries before every un-
married child of such deceased member shall have attained
the age of 21 years, then to such child or children under said
age collectively, to continue until every child dies, attains said
age, or marries, or unless the subsequent marriage of the widow
is terminated by the death of, annulment or divorce from a
succeeding husband; provided that no child shall receive any
allowance after attaining the age of 21 years or marriage. If
payment of the allowance be stopped because of death of the
widow and attainment of the age of 21 years by or marriage of
every child before the sum of the monthly payments shall
equal the sum of the amounts provided in Section 1509.7 (a)
and (b), then an amount equal to the difference between said
sum shall be paid in one amount to the surviving children of
the deceased member, share and share alike.
   The remarried widow shall have the right to receive a con-
tinuation of her monthly allowance during any period of time
in the future when she is unmarried by reason of the death
of, annulment or divorce from a succeeding husband. The
widow shall have no right to withdraw the said remaining
balance, if any, of Sections 1509.7 (a) and (b).
   (b) If, in the opinion of the Retirement Board, the death
of a member prior to retirement hereunder be not the result of
injury or illness incurred in the performance of duty, and
if said member has prior to death made an unrevoked election
to continue membership in the System in accordance with
Section 1509.4 hereof, the Retirement System shall be liable
for and shall pay in a lump sum a death benefit according
to and equal to Section 1509.7 (a).
   (c) If, in the opinion of the Retirement Board, the death
of a member prior to retirement hereunder be not the result
of injury or illness incurred in the performance of duty and
said member was an employee at the date of death and if Sec-
tions 1509.71 and 1509.72 (a) or (b) hereof do not apply,
the Retirement System shall be liable for and shall pay in a
lump sum a death benefit consisting of the benefits referred
to in Section 1509.7 (a) and (b).
   Section 1509.8. Cost of Living Index.
   The Retirement Board shall, before April 1970, and before
April of each year thereafter, determine whether there has
been an increase or decrease in the cost of living as provided
by this Section. Every retirement allowance, death allowance
or allowance payable monthly to or on account of any member
who has elected to take the modified system, and who retires
or dies or who has retired or died shall be increased or de-
creased as of July 1 of each year, commencing July 1, 1970,
by a percentage of the total allowance then being received
found by the Board to approximate the nearest one per cent
of the percentage of annual increase or decrease in the cost
3794              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [Re&. Ch. 188

of living as of January 1 of that year as shown by the then
current Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumers Price Index for
the Los Angeles-Long Beach Metropolitan Area.
   Section 1509.81. Cost of Living Benefits; Funding of..
   For the purpose of paying increased benefits according to
Section 1509.8 hereof, the city and members shall, for the 10
consecutive years following the effective date of this Section
1509.81, each contribute to the Eetirement F u n d an amount
equal to 1% of the member's compensation and thereafter, the
city and members shall each contribute to said Eetirement
F u n d either an amount equal to 1% of the member's compen-
sation or an amount equal to that percentage of the member's
compensation as determined by and based upon an actuarial
reserve basis pursuant to the then current actuarial studies at
the discretion of the City Board of Directors for such period
of time as the said Board of Directors shall determine. The
required contributions of members shall be required as a de-
duction from the compensation of each member.
   Section 1509.9. Normal Employee Contributions.
    The normal rates of contributions by members to the Eetire-
ment System shall be such as will provide an average annuity
at age 50 equal to 1/100 of the final compensation of members
according to the tables adopted by the Eetirement Board and
modified from time to time pursuant to this Article, for each
year of service rendered after entering the System, and shall
be required as a deduction from the compensation of each
member throughout the member's membership.
   Section 1509.91. Costs of System.
   All costs of administering the System shall be charged to the
System and not to the city, including administration, invest-
ment costs, and actuarial reports.
   Section 1509.92. City Contributions.
   The total amount, as determined by the actuary and ap-
proved by the Eetirement Board, of the contributions required
during any fiscal year of the city under the Eetirement Sys-
tem, shall be paid into the Eetirement Fund by the city during
such year. Liabilities accruing under the Eetirement System
because of service rendered to the city prior to July 1, 1935,
and because of deaths and disability retirement of members,
not met by members' contributions, shall be met by contribu-
tions to the Eetirement Fund by the city, in addition to any
amounts contributed to meet liabilities accruing because of
service rendered by persons after becoming members of the
System, provided that such prior service liabilities may be met
by annual appropriations instead of by one appropriation for
the total amount of the liabilities; and provided further, that
such appropriation for any one year shall be not less than the
total amounts disbursed during that year on account of either
or both of (a) prior service, and (b) death and disability bene-
fits not provided by members' contributions.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 1881              REGULAR SESSION                 3795

   The increase in liabilities created under the Retirement Sys-
tem, due to the amendment of this Article XV, for service
rendered prior to its adoption and subsequent to June 30,
1935, shall be amortized over the period ending June 30, 1999,
by annual installments, as determined by the actuary and ap-
proved by the Retirement Board.
   In addition to other contributions required of the city under
the System, the city shall contribute to the Retirement Fund
such sums as may be necessary when added to the members'
contributions provided for herein, to provide the remaining
portion of service retirement allowances, including continu-
ances of such allowances, which is based on service rendered
after June 30, 1935. Such sums shall be made in annual in-
stallments, and the installment to be paid in any year shall be
determined by the application of a percentage to the total
members' compensation paid during said year, said percent-
age to be the ratio of the value at the effective date hereof or
at the date of the last valuation prior to said date, or at the
later date of a periodical actuarial valuation and investiga-
tion into the experience under the System as provided by the
Charter and by ordinance, of such allowances thereafter to be
paid to or on account of persons who were members from
contributions of the city, less the amount of such contributions,
with accumulated interest thereon, then held by said System to
provide said benefits on account of service rendered by re-
spective members after the date stated in the sentence next
preceding, to the value at said respective dates of compensa-
tion thereafter payable to said members. Said values shall be
determined by the actuary, who shall take into account the in-
terest which shall be earned on said contributions, the compen-
sation experience of members, and the probabilities of separa-
tion by all causes, of members from service before retirement
and of death after retirement. Said percentage shall be changed
by the Board on the basis of said values determined in said
periodical actuarial valuation and investigation into the ex-
perience under the System. The percentage to be used shall
be thirteen and eighty-two hundredths per cent (13.82%)
 until redetermined by the Retirement Board on the basis of
 the periodical investigation and actuarial valuation under the
 System.
    Section 1509.93. Periodic Actuarial Investigation.
   Periodically, at periods fixed by the legislative body, the
 Retirement Board shall make an actuarial investigation into
 the mortality, service and other experience under the System,
 and, further, shall make an actuarial valuation of the assets
 and liabilities of the System, and upon the basis of such in-
 vestigation and valuation as interpreted by the actuary, any
 necessary revision of the tables and rates being used under the
 System shall be made by the Retirement Board. No adjustment
 will be included in members' new rates of contribution result-
 ing from said periodical investigation, Charter or ordinance
3796               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. Ch. 188

amendments, or other cause, for time prior to the effective date
of such new rates.
   Section 1510. Military Leave of Absence; Contributions
and Credits.
   Any member on or who has been on military leave of ab-
sence from duty may make payments to the Retirement Fund
of all or any part of the normal contributions which would
have been deducted from the member's compensation had the
member been on duty. The legislative body by ordinance shall
determine how and when such payment shall be made. All
such payments shall be matched by contributions of the city
to the Retirement Fund, and such member shall receive credit
for such payments and matching contributions of the city, and
for the time during which a member is or has been on military
leave of absence from duty.
   Section 1511. Election to Join Public Employees' Retire-
ment System.
   The legislative body of the city shall have the power to au-
thorize any member of the Retirement System to join the
Public Employees' Retirement System, provided the member-
ship of the Retirement System has first complied with any
election requirements or other conditions prescribed by the
Public Employees' Retirement System Act, as now enacted
or hereafter amended.
   Section 1512. Effective Date.
   This amended Article XV shall become effective and opera-
tive on the first day of July, 1969."
   That we have compared the foregoing amendment with the
original proposal proposed by Ordinance No. 4912 to be sub-
mitted to the electors of said city, and find that the foregoing
is a full, true, correct and exact copy thereof.
   That as to said amendment this certificate shall be taken as a
full and complete certification as to the regularity of all pro-
ceedings had and done in connection therewith.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the said City of Pasadena to be affixed hereto
this 20th day of May, 1969.

                   WALTER L. BENEDICT
  (SEAL)           Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors
                     of the City of Pasadena
                   DOROTHY E. MARTIN
                   Deputy City Clerk
and
   "WHEREAS, Said proposed amendment to the Charter of the
City of Pasadena, ratified by the electors of said city, as afore-
said, has been, and is now, submitted to the Legislature of the
State of California, for approval or rejection without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of Arti-
cle X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
                        19(59
Res. Ch. 190]                   REGULAR SESSION                 379?

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendment to the Charter of the City of Pasadena,
as proposed to, adopted and ratified by the qualified electors of
said City of Pasadena, as hereinabove fully set forth, be and
the same is hereby approved as a whole without amendment
or alteration, for and as an amendment to and as part of the
Charter of the City of Pasadena.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 189
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 171—Relative to
          proclaiming Muscular Dystrophy Month.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 5, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Public support is vital in the relentless battle
against the crippling disease of muscular dystrophy; and
   "WHEREAS, In California, hundreds of children          suffer
with incurable muscular dystrophy, a progressively crippling
disease which causes a limited life expectancy for its victims;
and
   WHEREAS, Direct patient aid to victims of this dreaded
disease is given without cost by Muscular Dystrophy Asso-
ciations of America volunteer chapters throughout California
and the nation to fight muscular dystrophy and other dis-
orders in the neuromuscular unit such as myositis and amyo-
trophic lateral sclerosis; and
   WHEREAS, Extensive research work is bringing hope to
millions suffering from muscular dystrophy and other re-
lated neuromuscular diseases; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested
to issue a proclamation designating the month of November
1969 as Muscular Dystrophy Month in California, and to
urge all the citizens of this state to support the important
work of the Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America,
Inc.; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
 a copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 190
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 189—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of Richmond, County of
  Contra Costa, State of California, ratified by the qualified
  electors of the city at a general municipal election held
  therein on the 13th day of May, 1969.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 5, 1969.]
3798              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [Res. Ch. 190

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
proposal, adoption, and ratification of amendments to the
Charter of the City of Eichmond, a municipal corporation
in the County of Contra Costa, State of California, as here-
inafter set forth in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk
of the city, as follows:

  CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
         RICHMOND OF THREE CHARTER AMENDMENTS

State of California    1
County of Contra Costa j- ss.
City of Richmond       J
   We, the undersigned, John J. Sheridan, Mayor of the City
of Richmond, and Harlan J. Heydon, City Clerk of the City
of Richmond, hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Richmond, a municipal corporation in the
County of Contra Costa, State of California, now is and at
all times herein mentioned was a city containing a population
of more than three thousand five hundred (3,500), and has
been, ever since the year 1909, and is now, organized, existing
and acting under a freeholders' charter adopted under and
by virtue of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of
the State of California, which charter was duly ratified by
the qualified electors of said city at a special election held
for that purpose on the 9th day of February, 1909, and
approved by the Legislature of the State of California by
concurrent resolution filed with the Secretary of State on the
4th day of March, 1909 (Statutes of 1909, Chap. 18).
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Arti-
cle X I of the Constitution of the State of California, on its
own motion, the Council of the City of Richmond, being the
legislative body thereof, submitted to the qualified electors
of the City three proposals to amend the Charter of the City
to be voted on at a special municipal charter amendment elec-
tion called and consolidated with the general municipal elec-
tion to be held on the 13th day of May, 1969.
   That Proposals Nos. 1, 2, and 3 were published and ad-
vertised in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California and
in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the City
of Richmond on the 2nd day of April, 1969, in The Independ-
ent, a newspaper of general circulation published daily except
Sunday in the City of Richmond and the official newspaper of
the City, and in each edition thereof during the day of publi-
cation.
   That copies of Proposals Nos. 1, 2, and 3 were printed in
convenient pamphlet form and in type of not less than 10
point, and were mailed to each of the qualified electors of the
City, and beginning on April 2, 1969, a notice was advertised
in The Independent daily, except Sunday, up to and including
the day fixed for the election, that copies of the proposals
                     1969
Res. Ch. 1901               REGULAR SESSION                    3799

 could be had on application therefor at the office of the City
 Clerk, and that during such period copies of the proposals
 could be had on application therefor at the office of the City
 Clerk.
   That the general municipal election and special municipal
charter amendment election consolidated therewith were called,
held and conducted in the time, form and manner required
by the Charter of the City and by the laws of the State of
 California on the 13th day of May, 1969, which day was not
less than forty (40) and not more than sixty (60) days after
completion of the publication and advertisement of the pro-
posals.
   That at the election a majority of the qualified voters voting
on each of the amendments voted in favor of the proposed
amendments.
   That all of the proceedings in connection with the submission
and ratification of the amendments were had in accordance
with Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State
of California, the laws of California, and the Charter of the
City of Eichmond.
   That the charter amendments so ratified are as follows:
   Proposal No. 1 amending Article X I I I of the Charter of the
City of Richmond, entitled "Personnel Administration" in
the following particulars:
   F i r s t : To amend Sections 2(m) and 7(a) of Article X I I I to
read as follows: (Words in capital letters to be deleted)
   ''Sec. 2 (m). For removals, demotions, R E J E C T I O N DUR-
ING PROBATION, decreases in pay, suspensions without pay
and other forms of discipline of employees whose services are
not satisfactory or who violate the provisions of the Article or
the rules adopted to carry out the intent of this Article. Em-
ployees so discharged or disciplined shall have the right of
appeal as outlined in this Article, and under the procedure
outlined in the Personnel Rules.
   "Sec. 7. The Personnel Board shall have power, and it
shall be its duty:
    (a) to hear any employee in the Classified Service, upon his
request, who has been demoted, suspended, dismissed, RE-
J E C T E D DURING PROBATION or reduced in pay as fol-
lows : No person placed under the Personnel System established
by this Article shall be demoted, suspended if for more than
thirty days in any one calendar year, dismissed, R E J E C T E D
DURING PROBATION, or reduced in pay except by order
of the Personnel Director made upon written charges by the
council, the City Manager, or the head of the department in
which such person is employed, and served upon such person.
Whereupon the person so charged shall have an opportunity
of filing a written answer or explanation of the charges. Any
person demoted, dismissed, suspended, R E J E C T E D DURING
PROBATION, or reduced in pay may within ten days from
the date of his notification of the same file with the board a
written demand for an investigation and public hearing within
3800                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Reg. Ch. 190

a period not to exceed thirty (30) days in accordance with
rules and procedures established by the board. After such
investigation the board may recommend to the City Manager,
suspension, modification or revocation of any order previously
made by it suspending, demoting, REJECTING DURING
PROBATION, or reducing in pay such a person. The City
Manager must act on the recommendation within fifteen (15)
days. In cases of contrary action by the City Manager, the
board may submit its recommendation to the council. Recom-
mendations of the Board submitted to the Council may be over-
ridden only by a f vote of the council. (This is not to contra-
vene the employee's right if dissatisfied with any order or
ruling of the board, and or council, to appeal to the Superior
Court)"
    Proposal No. 2 amending Article I I I of the Charter of the
 City of Richmond, entitled " T h e Council" in the following
particulars:
    F i r s t : To amend Section 3 of Article I I I as follows: ("Words
underlined to be added)
    "Sec. 3. On the second Monday of May, 1909, an election
 shall be held within said city for the purpose of electing nine
 members of said Council.
    " T h e nine members elected at such election, shall at the
 first regular meeting in July, 1909, so classify themselves by lot
 that three of said members shall hold office for the term of
 two years, three for the term of four years, and three for the
 term of six years.
    " O n the second Tuesday in May, 1965, and thereafter, on
 the second Tuesday in May of each odd-numbered year, an
 election shall be held for the election of three Councilmen to
 succeed the three members of the City Council whose terms
 expire; also to elect Councilmen for any unexpired terms that
 may exist.
  . " T h e electors, in form and manner prescribed in section
 two of article VIII, may by ordinance provide for the divi-
 sion of the city into districts or wards and require that one
 councilman to be elected at each election shall be a resident
 of each ward at the time of his election; provided that all
 councilmen shall be voted for at large.
    The City Council may, by resolution, change the date of any
 general or primary election for City Councilmen to another
 date in order to consolidate said election with an election of
 any other public agency which is held within one month of the
 dates set forth in this Charter for municipal elections. A notice
 of the change in the date of a general election shall be pub-
 lished for five days not earlier than the 120th day nor later
 than the 100th day prior to the date fixed for the election.
 If a general election is held earlier than the second Tuesday
 in May, the terms of office of the elected councilmen shall com-
                      1969
Res. Ch. 190]                REGULAR SESSION                     3 8 0 I


 mence on the second Monday after said second Tuesday in
 May, notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter to
 the contrary."
    Proposal No. 3 amending Article X I I of the Charter of the
 City of Richmond, entitled "General Pension F u n d " in the
 following particulars:
    F i r s t : To add Section 23 to Article X I I to read as follows:
    "Sec. 23. Notwithstanding any other provision of this ar-
 ticle, the minimum full service pension for employees or their
 dependents presently retired on the date of the adoption of
 this section, or placed on retirement after the date of the
adoption of this section, shall be two hundred fifty dollars
 ($250.00) per month. Persons who are retired on a limited
annual pension shall receive a proportionate share of two hun-
dred fifty dollars ($250.00) per month, in accordance with the
proportionate share presently being received or awarded after
the date of adoption of this section. A 'full service pension' is
one which has been awarded pursuant to Section 2 of this
Article or a pension awarded pursuant to Section 5 ( a ) , para-
graph one (service connected disability), of this Article. A
'limited annual pension' is one which has been awarded pur-
suant to Section 5 (a), paragraph two (non-service connected
disaility), or Section 5(b) of this Article."
   We further certify that we have compared the foregoing pro-
posed and ratified amendments to the charter of the City of
Richmond with the original proposals submitting the same to
the electors of the City and find that the foregoing is a full,
true and correct copy of the amendments.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of Richmond to be affixed hereto
this 19th day of May, 1969.

                                J O H N J. SHERIDAN
  (SEAL)                        Mayor of the City of Richmond

                              Attest:
                               HARLAN J. HEYDON
                               Clerk of the City of Richmond
and
   "WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, have been and
now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of
California for approval or rejection, as a whole without power
of alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendments to the Charter of the City of Richmond,
3802               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. C L 1 9 1

County of Contra Costa, as proposed to, and adopted and rati-
fied by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth,
are hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or amend-
ment, for and as amendments to, and as part of, the Charter
of the City of Eiehmond, County of Contra Costa.


                EESOLUTION CHAPTER 191
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 181—
             Relative to "Apprenticeship Month."
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 6, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, California employers and organized labor histori-
cally have cooperated to provide young people with a mean-
ingful transition from academic pursuits to career employ-
ment by the technological application of knowledge through
apprenticeship; and
   WHEREAS, Apprenticeship is an important milestone for all
young adults who expect to participate in the technological
world of California industry; and
   WHEEEAS, Apprenticeship is especially important in bridg-
ing the gap between the economically disadvantaged and the
industrial world of skilled craftsmen and lifetime employment;
and
   WHEREAS, California now has the most advanced apprentice-
ship system in the United States, training some 22,000 appren-
tices and supported by education and employment agencies,
both federal and state; and
   WHEREAS, The California Apprenticeship Council and the
Department of Industrial Relations, Division of Apprentice-
ship Standards, have enlisted the aid of labor and management
and citizen groups to form joint apprenticeship committees to
administer the apprenticeship programs; and
   WHEEEAS, The Human Relations Agency and the California
Apprenticeship Council have designated the month of June,
1969, as "Apprenticeship Month"; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the month of June, 1969, as "Apprentice-
ship Month"; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 192
   Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 103—Relative to the
              Legislative Budget Committee.
              [Filed with Secretary of State June 6, 1969.]
                        1969
Res. Ch. 194]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3803
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That in addition to any money
heretofore made available to it, the sum of nine hundred sev-
enty-seven thousand dollars ($977,000), or so much thereof as
may be necessary, is hereby allocated from the Contingent
Funds of the Assembly and Senate for the payment of any
and all expenses incurred by the Legislative Budget Com-
mittee or its members pursuant to and under the authority of
law or the provisions of Joint Rule No. 37.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 193
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 112—Relative
                 to God Bless America Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 6, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Each year on July the Fourth loyal and patriotic
Americans gather to pay tribute to the founding of our great
country; and
   WHEREAS, Our forefathers, strong of will and strong of
spirit, burst forth from the chains of oppression nearly two
hundred years ago to found upon our eastern shores a new
nation under God dedicated to the freedom of all mankind; and
   WHEREAS, In this short period in the history of man, with
energy, foresight, and perseverance, our ancestors with their
deep historic commitment to freedom built our glorious nation,
and through that marvel of the American way, free private
enterprise poured forth the most magnificent abundance the
world has ever seen; and
   WHEREAS, It is with humble gratitude at our good fortune
as we look upon this nation, a shining example to those who
have yet to escape their chains, that we are compelled to
acknowledge the powerful role our religious heritage has
played in this great melting pot of ours and to seek God's con-
tinued blessing; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of June 29 through July 5 God
Bless America Week; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 194
         Senate Joint Resolution No. 7—Relative to the
                effect of supersonic jet aircraft.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 9, 1969.]
3804               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ReS. C h . 1 9 5

   WHEREAS, Sonic booms caused by supersonic nights of mod-
ern jet aircrafts have already caused extensive property dam-
age and untold aesthetic harm; and
   WHEREAS, The destructive capacity of sonic booms is at-
tested to by the fact they have destroyed a substantial control
tower and severely damaged houses; and
   WHEREAS, There are presently under construction jet trans-
ports capable of speeds in excess of 1,000 miles per hour,
which would produce sonic booms of a greater magnitude than
those currently being produced and with consequently greater
damage; and
   WHEREAS, The Federal Aviation Agency estimates that
there may be as many as 200 transcontinental nights daily by
these planes within a decade, subjecting many citizens to these
supersonic booms 15 to 20 times a day; and
   WHEREAS, It has also been estimated that property damages
from these sonic booms may exceed one billion dollars a year,
and cause increases in property insurance rates and taxes,
besides causing untold psychological damage; now, therefore,
be it
   Besolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and Congress of the
United States to comprehensively examine and review the con-
tention of the Federal Aviation Agency and other authorities
concerning the inevitability of the coming of the supersonic
boom as an immutable condition in the lives of the citizens of
California and the United States, and to take appropriate ac-
tion to forestall any such eventuality with its possible cata-
strophic effects and determine what can be done to alleviate
what could become the most offensive environmental blight of
the 20th century; and be it further
   Besolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States.


              RESOLUTION CHAPTER 195
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 58—Relative to
                commending Robert H. Yolk.
            [Piled with Secretary of State June 10, 1969 ]

   WHEREAS, Robert H. Volk has recently resigned as Commis-
sioner of Corporations to assume the posts of president and
member of the board of Union Bancorporation; and
   WHEREAS, From the time of his appointment as Commis-
sioner of Corporations by Governor Ronald Reagan on Feb-
                         1969
Res. Ch. 196]                   REGULAR SESSION                        3805
ruary 14, 1967, Mr. Volk has served the people of California
with vigor, imagination and great distinction; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Volk attended grade school in Verona, New
Jersey, and received his high school education at Montclair
Academy, Montclair, New Jersey, and University High School
in West Los Angeles; and
   WHEREAS, In 1954 he graduated from Stanford University
with a B.A. degree, and received his LL.B. degree in 1958;
and
   WHEREAS, While an undergraduate, Mr. Volk was a member
of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and is presently a member
of the Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity; and
   WHEREAS, He served as a special investigator in the Office
of Special Investigation of the United States Air Force from
1955 to 1957; and
   WHEREAS, In 1959 he was admitted to the California Bar
and was then associated with the law firm of Adams, Duque
and Hazeltine of Los Angeles, in which he became a partner
in 1962; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Volk is a member of the American, California
and Los Angeles Bar Associations, and is on the Board of
Trustees of Chadwick School and the Board of Directors of
the Los Angeles Metropolitan Y.M.C.A.; and
  WHEREAS, Mr. Volk and his wife, Barbara, have four chil-
dren : Christopher, William, Laura and Elizabeth; now, there-
fore, be it
  Resolved by tine Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members commend Robert
H. Volk for his outstanding services to the people of Cali-
fornia as Commissioner of Corporations and extend to him and
his family best wishes for the future; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Robert H. Volk.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 196
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 120—Relative                    to Mosquito
                      Control Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, TO safeguard the health and to promote the
comfort of the citizens of the State of California it is essen-
tial that the development of improved methods and techniques
to control mosquitoes be stimulated, that information on this
subject be more widely disseminated, and that closer coopera-
tion among those directly concerned with this problem be
established; and
   WHEREAS, The California Mosquito Control Association, Inc.,
representing 60 special county tax-supported mosquito control
3806                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ R e s Qfr 1 9 7

districts in this state, has a broad program to make Calif ornians
aware of the services offered by each district to combat and
control mosquito-borne disease; and
    WHEREAS, I t is essential and imperative that this fight meet
with success, if full utilization and enjoyment of personal, rec-
reational, industrial, and agricultural facilities is to be
achieved; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
issue a proclamation designating July 13th through 19th as
' ' California Mosquito Control Week,'' and urge the people of
California to cooperate at all times, especially that week, with
the programs for the combating and control of mosquitoes;
and be it further
    Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 197
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 172—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of Fresno, County of
  Fresno, State of California, ratified by the qualified electors
  of the city at a general municipal election held therein on
  the 15th day of April, 1969.
              [Filed with Secretary of State June 12, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of amendments to the Charter
of the City of Fresno, a municipal corporation in the County
of Fresno, State of California, as hereinafter set forth in the
certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city, as follows:

       CERTIFICATE OP RATIFICATION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE
                 CHARTER OF THE CITY OF FRESNO

State of California 1
County of Fresno \ ss.
City of Fresno      J

   We, Ted C. Wills, Mayor of the City of Fresno, and Jacque-
line L. Ryle, City Clerk of the City of Fresno, do hereby
certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Fresno, in the County of Fresno, State of
California, is now, and was at all of the times herein mentioned,
a city containing a population of more than fifty thousand
 (50,000) inhabitants as ascertained by the last preceding cen-
sus taken under the authority of the Congress of the United
States.
                    1969
Res   Ch   1971            REGULAR SESSION                  3807

   That the City of Fresno is now, and was at all of the times
herein mentioned, organized and existing under a charter
adopted under the provisions of Section 8, Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California, which charter was duly
ratified by a majority of the electors of the City at a general
municipal election held for that purpose on the 8th day of
April, 1957, and approved by the Legislature of the State of
California by concurrent resolution filed with the Secretary of
State on the 10th day of June, 1957 (Assembly Concurrent
Resolution No. 163, Chapter 277, Statutes 1957, Page 4680).
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8, Article
X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the Council
of the City of Fresno, being the legislative body of the City,
on its own motion, by Resolution No. 69-53 adopted on the
20th day of February, 1969, duly and regularly submitted to
the electors of the City proposals for certain amendments to
the charter of the City, and the Council ordered that the pro-
posed charter amendments as particularly set forth in said
Resolution No. 69-53 be submitted to the electors of the City
at the general municipal election to be held in the City on the
15th day of April, 1969.
   That on the 5th day of March, 1969, the proposed charter
amendments were published and advertised in accordance with
 Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution, in the Fresno Bee—
The Republican, a newspaper of general circulation within the
City, and in each edition thereof during the day of publication.
   That copies of the proposed charter amendments were
printed in convenient pamphlet form in type not less than
10-point, and were mailed to each of the qualified electors of
the City,- that copies thereof could be had upon application
therefor at the office of the City Clerk on and from March 6,
1969, to and including April 15, 1969; and that a notice was
advertised and published on and from March 6, 1969, to and
 including April 15, 1969, in the Fresno Bee—The Republican,
 a newspaper of general circulation within the City, that copies
thereof might be had at the office of the City Clerk of the City
 upon application therefor.
    That pursuant to the provisions of Section 1400 of the char-
 ter of the City of Fresno a general municipal election was
 required to be held in the City of Fresno on the 15th day of
 April, 1969, which date was not less than forty (40) days, and
 not more than sixty (60) days, after the completion of the
 publication of the proposed charter amendment as aforesaid.
    That the, said general municipal election was held in the
 City of Fresno on the 15th day of April, 1969, and said pro-
 posed charter amendments were designated upon the ballot
 therefor, and voted upon by the electors voting at said election,
 as Measures A, B, C, D, B, F, and G, respectively.
    That thereafter the Council of the City of Fresno did, in
 the manner provided by law, duly and regularly cause to be
 canvassed the returns of the said general municipal election
      120—1954
3808              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [ R e g . Qh. 197

and did, by resolution adopted on April 22, 1969, duly declare
the results of the said general municipal election as determined
from the canvass of the returns thereof, and did find, de-
termine, and declare that each of said proposed amendments,
except Measure B, did receive a majority vote of the qualified
voters voting in said election in favor thereof, and are there-
fore deemed ratified.
   That the said proposed charter amendments so submitted
by the Council of the City of Fresno and so ratified by the
qualified voters of the City are in words and figures as follows:
   1. [Measure A ] . Section 304 of the Charter of the City
of Fresno is amended to read:
   Section 304. Eligibility. No person shall be eligible
to hold an elective office unless he is, and shall have been
for a period of at least three years immediately preceding his
election or appointment, a qualified registered elector of the
City or of territory outside the City which was annexed to the
City at least one year prior to his election or appointment.
Eesidence as a qualified registered elector of such territory and
residence as a qualified registered elector of the City may be
combined to constitute such three-year period.
   2. [Measure C]. Sections 600, 601, and 602 of the Charter
of the City of Fresno are amended to read:
   Section 600. Enactment of Ordinances. Legislative action,
including the establishment of a fine or other penalty or the
grant of a franchise, shall be taken by the Council only by
means of an ordinance, as follows:
   (a) Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing, and
its enacting clause shall be substantially as follows: " T h e
Council of the City of Fresno does ordain as follows:".
   (b) No ordinance shall be adopted by the Council on the
day of its introduction, or on the day it is altered after intro-
duction, nor within five days thereafter, except as follows:
   (1) An ordinance which takes effect upon adoption;
   (2) An ordinance changing the land use zoning district of
property which has been the subject of a noticed public hear-
ing by the Council;
   (3) An alteration necessary only to correct a typographical
or clerical error;
   (c) No ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall be
adopted at any time other than a regular or adjourned regu-
lar meeting;
   (d) Upon the demand of a member of the Council at the
time of the adoption of an ordinance, it shall be read in full,
unless the reading thereof is waived by the Council.
   Section 601. "Vote Required. No ordinance shall be passed
or become effective without receiving the affirmative vote of at
least four members of the Council unless otherwise provided
in the Charter.
   Section 602. Roll Call Vote. At the demand of any mem-
ber, or at the request of the City Clerk, upon any question,
                    1969
Res. Ch. 197]              REGULAR SESSION                   3309

the City Clerk shall call the roll and shall cause the ayes and
noes taken thereon to be entered in the minutes of the meeting.
    3. [Measure D ] . Section 707 of the Charter of the City of
Fresno is amended to read:
    Section 707. Chief Administrative Officer pro Tempore.
The Council shall appoint by majority vote a Chief Adminis-
trative Officer Pro Tempore, who notwithstanding Section 801
may be an officer or employee appointed by the Chief Admin-
istrative Officer, to serve during the absence of the Chief Ad-
ministrative Officer from the City or while he is unable to per-
form his duties or during any vacancy in his office.
    4. [Measure E ] . Section 802 of the Charter of the City of
Fresno is amended to read:
    Section 802. City Clerk. Powers and Duties. The City
Clerk shall have power and be required t o :
     (a) Be responsible for the recording and maintaining of a
full and true record of all the proceedings of the Council in
books that shall bear appropriate titles and be devoted to such
purpose, and attend all meetings of the Council either in
person or by deputy;
     (b) Maintain separate books, in which shall be recorded re-
spectively all ordinances and resolutions, with the certificate
 of the Clerk annexed to each thereof stating the same to be
 the original or a correct copy, and as to an ordinance requiring
publication, stating that the same has been published in ac-
 cordance with this Charter; keep all books properly indexed
 and open to public inspection when not in actual use;
     (c) Maintain separate files, with appropriate indexes
 thereto, of all contracts the execution of which was specifically
 authorized by Council action, and of all official bonds of the
 City;
     (d) Be the custodian of the Seal of the City;
     (e) Administer oaths or affirmations, take affidavits and dep-
 ositions pertaining to the affairs and business of the City and
 certify copies of official records;
     (f) Be ex-officio Assessor, unless the Council has availed
 itself, or does in the future avail itself, of the provisions of
 the general laws of the State relative to the assessment of
 property and the collection of City taxes by county officers, or
 unless the Council by ordinance provides otherwise.
      (g) Maintain in appropriate books and files such other rec-
 ords, documents, instruments, and papers as the Council shall
 provide by ordinance.
     Except as may be otherwise provided by ordinance or reso-
  lution of the Council the destruction or other disposition of
  City records, documents, instruments, books, and papers in
  the custody of the City Clerk shall be governed by the laws of
  the State regulating the destruction or disposition of the rec-
  ords of general law cities.
      5. [Measure F ] . Section 902 of the Charter of the City of
  Fresno is amended to read:
3810               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Ch. 197

     Section 902. Appointments. Terms. The members of each
  of such boards or commissions shall be appointed by the Mayor
  with the approval of the Council from the qualified electors
  of the City, none of whom shall hold any paid office or employ-
  ment in the City government. They shall be subject to removal
 by motion of the Council adopted by at least five affirmative
 votes. The members thereof shall serve for a term of four
 years and until their respective successors are appointed and
 qualified.
     The terms of the members first appointed to each board and
 commission shall be determined by lot so that as nearly as
 possible the terms of twenty-five per cent of the total member-
  ship of each board or commission shall expire each succeeding
 Julyl.
     Thereafter, any appointment to fill an unexpired term shall
 be for such unexpired period.
     6. [Measure G]. Section 904 of the Charter of the City of
 Fresno is amended to read:
     Section 904. Meetings. Chairmen. As soon as practi-
 cable, following the first day of July of every year, each of
 such boards and commissions shall organize by electing one
 of its members to serve as presiding officer at the pleasure of
 such board or commission. Bach board or commission estab-
 lished by this Charter shall hold regular meetings at least
 once each month. Bach board or commission created by ordi-
 nance shall hold regular meetings at such regular intervals
 as the proper transaction of its business shall require, but not
less often than once each year. All proceedings shall be open
 to the public.
    Except as may be otherwise provided in this Charter, the
 Chief Administrative Officer shall designate a secretary for
the recording of minutes for each of such boards and com-
missions, who shall keep a record of its proceedings and trans-
actions. Each board or commission may prescribe its own
rules and regulations which shall be consistent with this
 Charter and copies of which shall be kept on file in the office
of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public
inspection. Each board or commission shall have the same
power as the Council to compel the attendance of witnesses,
to examine them under oath, to compel the production of evi-
dence before it and to administer oaths and affirmations.
    "We, and each of us, further certify that we have compared
the text of each of the foregoing charter amendments with
the original proposal submitting the same to the electors of
the City, and find that the foregoing is a full, true, correct
and exact copy thereof; and that as to said charter amend-
ments this certificate shall be taken as a full and complete
certification of the regularity of all proceedings had and done
in connection therewith.
                     196
Res. Ch. 1981           °   REGULAR SESSION                  3811

  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the corporate seal of the City of Fresno to be affixed
hereto this 22d day of April, 1969.

                              TED C. W I L L S
   (SEAL)                     Mayor of the City of Fresno
                              JACQUELINE L. R Y L E
                              City Clerk of the City of Fresno
  Approved as to form:
  SPENCER THOMAS J R .
  Acting City Attorney of the
    City of Fresno
  Date: April 22,1969.

and
   WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, have been and
now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of
California for approval or rejection, as a whole without
power of alteration or amendment, in accordance with Sec-
tion 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of Cali-
fornia ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the memhers
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendments to the Charter of the City of Fresno,
County of Fresno, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified
by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth, are
hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or amend-
ment, for and as amendments to, and as part of the Charter
of the City of Fresno, County of Fresno.


                RESOLUTION" CHAPTER 198
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 174—Approving a revi-
  sion of the Charter of the City of Yisalia, County of Tulare,
  State of California, ratified by the qualified electors of the
  city at a special municipal election held therein on the 14th
  day of April, 1969.
            [Filed with Secretary of State June 12, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
proposal, adoption, and ratification of a revision of the Char-
ter of the City of Visalia, a municipal corporation in the
County of Tulare, State of California, as hereinafter set forth
in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city, as
follows:
3812              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 198

State of California ]
County of Tulare     [   ss.
City of Visalia     J

   We, the undersigned, Edmund L, Vollmer, Mayor of the City
of Visalia, State of California, and Jean S. Banks, City Clerk
of said City, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Visalia, a municipal corporation in the
County of Tulare, State of California, now is and at all times
herein mentioned was a city containing a population of more
than three thousand five hundred inhabitants and has been
ever since the fourth day of January, 1923, and is now, or-
ganized, existing and acting under a Freeholders' Charter,
adopted under and by virtue of Section 8 of Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California, which charter was duly
ratified by a majority of the qualified electors of said City at
an election held for that purpose on the fourth day of January,
1923, and approved by the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia, by Assembly Concurrent Resolution filed with the Sec-
retary of State on the twenty sixth day of February, 1923.
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
Council of the City of Visalia, being the legislative body of
said City, caused to be framed a proposed new Charter of the
City of Visalia, and on its own motion by its Resolution No.
697, passed February 17, 1969, duly and regularly proposed
and submitted to the qualified electors of said City a certain
proposal designated as Proposition 1 for adoption of the pro-
posed new Charter of said City, to be voted upon by said
 qualified electors at a special municipal election called and held
for that purpose m said City on the 14th day of April, 1969.
That said special election was duly and regularly called, au-
thorized and provided for by said Council of the City of Visalia
by said aforementioned Resolution No. 697, and that by said
Resolution said Council consolidated said special municipal
 election with the General Election held in said City on the 14th
 day of April, 1969.
    That said consolidated special municipal election was duly
 and regularly held in said City as required by law and in ac-
cordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of
 the State of California and Charter of the City of Visalia, and
 after due notice given and published, with the said General
 Election on the 14th day of April, 1969, which said day was not
less than forty nor more than sixty days after the completion
 of the publication of the aforementioned proposed new Charter
 in the Visalia Times-Delta, the official newspaper of said City.
    That such proposed new Charter was published on the 21st
 day of February, 1969 in the Visalia Times-Delta, a daily news-
 paper of general circulation published in said City of Visalia
 and the official newspaper of said City.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 198]               REGULAR SESSION                   3813

    That the Council of said City framed synopsis of said
 proposed new Charter and on February 21 and 26, 1969
 caused a notice containing said synopsis to be published in the
 Visalia Times-Delta, a newspaper of general circulation
 published and circulated daily in the City.
   That the Council of said City provided for the submission,
 selection and printing of arguments for and against said P r o p -
osition; that no arguments against said Proposition were
received; that a copy of an argument for said Proposition
was mailed and distributed by the City Clerk of the City of
Visalia to each voter of the City of Visalia in connection with
 the sample ballots.
   That as to said proposed new Charter of the City of Visalia,
hereinafter set forth, this certificate shall be taken as a full
and complete certification as to the regularity of all proceed-
ings had and done in connection therewith, and that Section 8
of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California,
the Charter of the City of Visalia and all other provisions of
law applicable thereto have been fully conformed to a n d
complied with.
   That in accordance with the provisions of law appli-
cable thereto, the Council of the City of Visalia did duly a n d
regularly canvass the votes cast at said consolidated election,
and at said special municipal election, and did determine the
result of said special municipal election to be that a majority
of the qualified electors of said City voting on the proposed
new Charter hereinafter set forth and designated as Proposi-
tion 1 had voted for and adopted said Proposition 1.
   That the proposed new Charter of the City of Visalia which
was so ratified by a majority of the electors of said City, is i n
words and figures as follows:

      PROPOSED N E W CHAKTEB OF THE C I T T OP VISALIA

                             Article I.
  Section 1. The territory of the City of Visalia shall be
that contained within its present boundaries as now established
with the power and authority to change the same in t h e
manner provided by law.

                            Article II.
  Section 1. The City of Visalia, as successor in interest of
the municipal corporation of the same name, heretofore created
and existing, shall own, hold, possess, use, lease, control, a n d
in every way succeed to and become the owner of all r i g h t s
and all property of every kind and nature by said existing
municipal corporation owned, controlled, possessed, or claimed,
and shall be subject to all the debts, obligations, liabilities,
dues and duties of said existing corporation.
3814              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Ch. 198

                         Article III.
                        Powers of City.
    Section 1. The City of Visalia, a municipal corporation,
shall after the adoption of this charter, continue its existence
as such municipal corporation, and under the corporate name,
City of Visalia, shall have, possess, and exercise all powers and
rights vested in said City of Visalia, under this charter, and
the Constitution of California and the laws of the state, and all
powers which a municipal corporation may lawfully possess or
exercise under the Constitution of this State. The City of
Visalia shall have the right and power to make and enforce
all laws and regulations in respect to municipal affairs, sub-
jected only to the restrictions and limitations provided in this
charter; provided that nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent or restrict the City from exercising or consenting to,
and the City is hereby authorized to exercise any and all
rights, powers and privileges heretofore or hereafter granted
or prescribed by the general laws of the State; provided also,
that where the general laws of the State provide a procedure
for the carrying out and enforcement of any rights or powers
belonging to the City, said procedure shall ^jntrol and be fol-
 lowed unless a different procedure shall have been provided in
 this charter or by ordinance.
    Section 2. Without in any way or to any extent limiting
 or curtailing the powers hereinbefore conferred or mentioned,
 and for the purpose only of removing all doubt concerning the
 exercise of powers hereinafter expressly mentioned, the City of
 Visalia shall have power:
     1. To have and use a corporate seal;
    2. To sue or be sued in all courts in all actions and pro-
 ceedings ;
     3. To levy and collect taxes, and to levy and collect license
 taxes for both regulation and revenue;
     4. To borrow money, incur municipal indebtedness, and
 issue bonds or other evidence of such indebtedness;
     5. To acquire by purchase, bequest, devise, gift, condemna-
 tion or other manner sanctioned by law, within and without
 the limits of said City, property of every kind and nature for
  all purposes;
     6. To acquire by said means and to establish, maintain,
 equip, own and operate, either within or outside of the City,
 telephone and telegraph systems, street railways, or other
 means of transportation, warehouses, free markets, water-
 works, nitration plants, gas works, electric light, heat and
  power works, underground or overhead conduit systems or any
  other works necessary to a public utility; and to join with
  any other city or cities or county in the acquisition, construc-
  tion and maintenance of same ;
     7. To improve the streams and channels flowing through the
  City or adjoining the same, to widen, straighten and deepen
Res. Ch. 1981       1969
                           REGULAR SESSION                   3815

the channels thereof, and remove obstructions therefrom, to
construct and maintain embankment and other works to pro-
tect the City from overflow and storm waters;
   8. To furnish the City or its inhabitants or persons without
the City, any public utility service or commodity whatsoever;
   9. To lease, sell, convey and dispose of any and all property
herein mentioned for the common benefit;
   10. To acquire, construct, operate and maintain parks, play-
grounds, markets, baths, public halls, auditoriums, libraries,
museums, art galleries, gymnasiums, and any and all buildings,
establishments, institutions, and places whether situated inside
or outside of the City limits, which are necessary or convenient
for the transaction of public business or for promoting the
health, morals, education, care of the indigent or welfare of the
inhabitants of the City or for their amusement, recreation, en-
tertainment, or benefit;
   11. To acquire, construct and maintain all works necessary
for the disposition of sewage, garbage and waste, to construct,
own, maintain and operate incinerating or garbage reduction
plants, and to join with any other city or cities or county in
the acquisition, construction and maintenance of any such
works or plant;
   12. To define and abate nuisances;
   13. To provide for the care of the indigent;
   14. To establish boulevards and regulate traffic thereon;
   15. To equip and maintain a fire department and to make
all necessary regulations for the prevention of fires.
   16. To grant permits to use the streets or public property
revocable at any time without notice;
   17. To regulate and establish rates and charges to be im-
posed and collected by any person or corporation for com-
modities or services rendered under or in connection with a n y
franchise, permit, or license heretofore or hereafter granted
by the City, or other authority, provided, that the same is not
inconsistent with the Constitution of the State of California;
   18. To receive devises, bequests, gifts and donations of all
kinds of property, in fee simple, or in trust, for charitable or
 other purposes and to do all acts necessary to carry out the
 purposes of such devises, bequests, gifts and donations w i t h
 power to manage, sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of the same
 in accordance with the terms of the devise, bequest, gift or
 donation or absolutely in case such devise, bequest or t r u s t be
 unconditional;
    19. To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings
 hereafter erected, and to regulate and determine the area of
 yards, courts and other open spaces and for said purpose to
 divide the City into districts. Such regulations shall be "uni-
 form for each class of buildings throughout any district, b u t
 the regulations in one or more districts may differ from those
 in other districts. Such regulations shall be designed to secure
 safety from fire and other dangers, and to promote the public
3816               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [|Jes_ Qh. 198

health and welfare, including, so far as conditions may permit,
provisions for adequate light, air and convenience of access,
and shall be made with reasonable regard to the character of
the buildings erected in each district, the value of land and
the use to which it may be put, to the end that such regulations
may promote the public health, safety and welfare;
   20. To regulate and restrict the location of trades and indus-
tries and the location of buildings designed for specified uses,
and for said purposes to divide the City into districts and to
specify for each such district the trades and industries which
shall be excluded or subjected to special regulations and the
uses for which buildings may not be erected or altered. Such
regulations shall be designed to promote the public health,
safety and welfare and shall be made with reasonable consider-
ation, among other things, to the character of the district and
to its peculiar suitability for particular uses.

                          Article IV.
  Officers, Deputies and Employees and Their Compensation
   Section 1. The officers of the City of Visalia shall be five
members of the Council, seven members of the Board of Edu-
cation, five Library Trustees, a City Manager, a City Clerk,
and a City Attorney. The Council may also provide by ordi-
nance for additional offices and for the duties thereof, and for
additional duties of officers herein provided for, but in no such
manner as to encroach upon the duties of any officer as pro-
vided for by this charter. The Council may also provide by
ordinance for such subordinate officers, assistants, deputies,
clerks and employees in the several offices and departments as
they deem necessary. The members of the Council and the
members of the Board of Education shall be elected from the
city at large, as provided in this charter; provided, however,
that all qualified electors of the Visalia Unified School District
shall also have the right to vote for members of the Board of
Education. All other officers, assistants, deputies, clerks and
employees shall be appointed as provided in this charter, or as
the Council may provide by ordinance in case no provision for
their appointment is herein made, and shall hold their respec-
tive offices or positions at the pleasure of the appointing
power. Where the appointment of any of said officers, assist-
ants, deputies, clerks or employees, is vested in the Council,
the Board of Library Trustees, or any Commission, such ap-
pointment and any removal must be made by a three-fifths
vote of the members of the appointing power.
   Section 2. All elective officers of the city shall be subject
to recall as provided in this charter.
   Section 3. All officers, assistants, deputies, clerks and em-
ployees shall receive such compensation as the Council may
from time to time determine by resolution, except, that the
members of the Council while sitting as a Board of Equaliza-
                     1969
Res. Ch. 1981               REGULAR SESSION                   3817

tion shall be paid $10.00 per day, for each day actually
served; provided, however, that the compensation of elective
officers, not otherwise fixed by this Charter, shall be fixed and
determined by ordinance only.
   Section 4. The Council shall not appoint to a salaried po-
sition under the City government any person who is a relative
by blood or marriage within the second degree of any one or
more of the members of such Council and neither shall any
department head or other officer having appointive power ap-
point any relative within such degree to any such position.

                             Article V.
                             Elections.
   Section 1. General municipal elections, after the effective
date of this Charter, for the election of officers and for such
other purposes as the council may prescribe shall be held bi-
ennially on the third Tuesday in April of each odd-numbered
year. All other municipal elections that may be held by au-
thority of this charter, or of the general law, shall be known
as special municipal elections.
   Section 2. Calling for Elections: The Council shall by or-
dinance order the holding of all elections. Such ordinance shall
establish precincts for the holding of such election, either by
adopting or consolidating precincts established for holding
general elections or by setting forth their boundaries, and
shall specify the objects and time for holding such elections,
and the number and names of the officers of election and the
polling place for each voting precinct. The number of election
officers at each precinct shall not exceed six, at least three of
whom shall be present at all times during the election. Said
ordinance shall be published once a week in the official news-
paper for two weeks before the time appointed for holding the
election, and no other notice thereof need be given.
   Section 3. Piling the Returns: The returns of each elec-
tion precinct shall be filed with the Clerk, and no person shall
be permitted access to them until canvassed by the Council.
On the first Monday after any election, and at the usual hour
and place of meeting the Council shall meet and canvass the
returns and declare the result. After having been canvassed
the returns shall be sealed up by the Clerk for six months
and no person shall have access to them except on order of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   Section 4. Notifying the Successful Candidates: After the
result of an election is declared, the Clerk, under his hand
and official seal, shall issue a certificate thereof and deliver the
same personally or by mail to the person elected.
   Section 5. Provisions of State Law to Apply: The Council
may, by ordinance, make further provisions as to the manner
 of holding and conducting elections. The provisions of the
laws of the State of California relating to municipal elections,
 3818              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 198

the qualifications of electors, the manner of voting, the duties
of election officers, and all other particulars so far as they
may be applicable, shall govern all municipal elections, except
as otherwise provided in this charter, or by such ordinance;
provided, that no primary elections shall be held.
   Section 6. Terms of Elective Officers: Elective officers
shall hold office for a period of four years from and after 8
o 'clock p.m. of the fourth Monday in April following the day of
election, and until their successors are elected and qualified:
provided further that any person elected to fill a vacancy shall
serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. In the election
of councilmen and members of the Board of Education, where
full terms and one or more unexpired terms are to be filled,
no distinction shall be made in nomination or voting between
the full terms and the unexpired terms, but the person or per-
sons elected by the highest lnumber of votes shall be elected
for the full term or terms and the persons receiving the next
highest vote shall be elected for the unexpired term or terms,
as the case may be.

                          Article VI.
         Legislative. The Council. Powers and Duties.
    Section 1. The legislative power of the City of Visalia shall
 be vested in the people through the initiative and referendum,
 and in a body to be designated The Council. Each candidate
 for member of the Council shall have been an elector of the
 city for at least three years next preceding the date of the
 election at which he is a candidate.
    Section 2. Meetings: The Council shall meet in the Coun-
 cil Chambers at the City Hall in regular session on the fourth
Monday in April following their election at 8 p.m., and shall
organize as herein required. Thereafter the Council shall meet
at such times as has been or may be prescribed by ordinance
or resolution, except that it shall meet regularly at least once
each month. All of the meetings of the Council shall be held
in the City Hall, unless, by reason of fire, flood or other
disaster, said City Hall cannot be used for that purpose, and
all meetings shall be open to the public. Special meetings may
be called by the Mayor, by two members of the Council, or by
the City Manager, but notice of every such meeting must be
served personally upon every member not joining in the call,
and upon the City Manager, if not called by him, or left at the
place of residence or of business of each person to be so served,
not less than two hours before the time of such special meeting.
   Such notice must state the subject or subjects to be con-
sidered or acted upon and must state the time of such meeting.
All meetings of the Council and all records thereof, shall be
open to the public, and no citizen shall be denied the right
personally, or through counsel, to present grievance, or offer
suggestions for the betterment of municipal affairs.
                      1969
 Ees. Ch. 198]               REGULAR SESSION                  3819

     Section 3. Quorum: Three members of the Council shall
  constitute a quorum, but a less number may adjourn from time
  to time. No franchise shall be granted, ordinance passed,
  budget adopted, supplemented or amended, appropriation
  made, or payment of money ordered unless three members of
  the Council concur in such action.
     Section 4. General Powers of the Council: Subject to the
  provisions and restrictions in this charter contained, and the
  valid delegation by this charter of any powers to any person,
  officer, board or committee, which delegation of power, if any,
  shall control, the Council shall have the power, in the name of
  the City, to do and perform all acts and things appropriate to
  a municipal corporation and the general welfare of its in-
  habitants and which are not specifically forbidden by the
  Constitution of the State or which now or hereafter it would
 be competent for this charter specifically to enumerate. No
  enumeration or specific statement herein of any particular
 powers shall be held to be exclusive of, or a limitation of, the
 foregoing general grant of powers.
    Section 5. Certain Powers and Duties enumerated: The
 Council shall—
    1. Judge of the qualifications of its members and of election
 returns;
    2. Establish rules for its proceedings;
    3. Cause a correct record of its proceedings to be kept. The
 ayes and noes shall on demand of any member, be taken and
 entered therein, and they shall be recorded on all votes passing
 any ordinance or appointing or dismissing or confirming the
 appointment or dismissal of any officer, or authorizing the
 execution of contracts, or the appropriation or payment of
money.
    4. Choose one of its members as presiding officer, to be called
 Mayor. The Mayor shall preside over the sessions of the Coun-
 cil, shall sign official documents when the signature of the
 Council or Mayor is required by law, and he shall act as the
 official head of the city on public and ceremonial occasions. H e
 shall have power to administer oaths and affirmations. "When
 the Mayor is absent from any meeting of the Council, the
 members of the Council may choose another member to act as
Mayor pro tern, and he shall for the time being, have the
powers of the Mayor.
    5. Appoint a City Attorney, a City Manager, a City Clerk,
and five Library Trustees.
    Section 6. Ordinance: The enacting clause of every ordi-
nance passed by the Council shall be: " B e it ordained by the
Council of the City of Visalia." The enacting clause of every
ordinance initiated by the people shall be: " B e it ordained b y
the people of the City of Visalia." At least five days must
elapse between the introduction and the final passage of a n y
ordinance; provided, that amendments germane to the subject
of any proposed ordinance may be made when it is brought
3820              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 198

up for final passage; and provided further, that in case of an
extraordinary epidemic or any disaster, such as flood, fire, or
earthquake requiring immediate action on the part of any
public authority, an emergency ordinance may be introduced
and passed at either a regular or special meeting without any
intervention of time between introduction and final passage. A
final vote on any ordinance or any vote on any appropriation
must be taken only at a regular or adjourned regular meeting
Every ordinance must be signed by the Mayor, attested by the
Clerk and the ordinance or a brief summary thereof published
once in the official newspaper. Any ordinance granting any
franchise or privilege shall be published at the expense of the
applicant therefor.
    Section 7. When Ordinances go into Effect: Except as
otherwise provided in this charter every ordinance, and every
measure passed by the Council granting any franchise or privi-
lege, shall go into effect at the expiration of thirty days after
its final passage, unless otherwise provided in said ordinance
or measure; provided, however, that no such ordinance or meas-
ure shall go into effect in less than thirty days from its final
passage. But ordinances declared by the Council to be neces-
sary as emergency measures for the immediate preservation
of the public peace, health, or safety, containing a statement
of the reasons for their urgency and passed by a four-fifths
vote of the whole Council, ordinances ordering or otherwise
relating to annexations, elections, and ordinances relating to
public improvements, the cost of which is to be borne wholly
or in part by special assessments, may go into effect at the will
of the Council.
    Section 8. Amending Ordinances: No ordinance shall be
amended by reference to its title, but the sections thereof to
be amended, shall be re-enacted at length as amended; and any
amendment passed contrary to the provisions of this section
shall be void, except the City Council may adopt and amend
any standard code of technical regulations by reference thereto
without the necessity of publishing said ordinances in their
 entirety as required by this Charter; providing, however, that
three (3) copies of the specific Codes to be adopted by refer-
 ence are available for inspection in the City Clerk's office be-
tween the introduction and passage of said ordinance.
    Section 9. Codification of Ordinances: Any or all ordi-
nances of the City which have been enacted and published in
the manner required at the time of their adoption, and which
have not been repealed, may be compiled, consolidated, revised,
indexed and arranged as a comprehensive ordinance code, and
 such code may be adopted by reference with the same effect
 as an ordinance by the passage of an ordinance for such pur-
pose. Such code need not be published in the manner required
 for other ordinances, but not less than three (3) copies thereof
 shall be filed for use and examination by the public in the
 office of the City Clerk prior to the adoption thereof. Ordi-
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 198]              REGULAR SESSION                  3821

nances codified shall be repealed as of the effective date of the
code. Subsequent amendments to sections of the code shall be
enacted in the same manner as herein required for the amend-
ment of ordinances generally.
   Detailed regulations pertaining to any subject such as the
construction of buildings, plumbing, wiring, or other subject
which require extensive regulations, when arranged as a com-
prehensive code, may likewise be adopted by reference in the
manner provided in this section.
   Section 10. Contracts: In the erection, improvement, and
repairing of all public buildings and works, in all street and
sewer work, the installation of pipes, fire hydrants, wells,
pumping plants, conduits, electric transmission lines, sub-sta-
tions, power plants, gas mains and generators, improvements
and development of parks and playgrounds, and works for
protection against overflow, and in furnishing any supplies, or
materials for the same, when the expenditures required for the
same shall exceed the amount specifically set by the State of
California, from time to time covering the requirement of
formal bids, the same shall be done by contract, and shall be
let to the lowest responsible bidder, after notice by publication
in the official newspaper by one or more insertions, the first of
which shall be at least seven days before the time for opening
bids; provided, that the Council may reject any and all bids
presented and may re-advertise in their discretion; and pro-
vided further, that after rejecting bids, or if no bids are re-
ceived, the Council may declare and determine that in its opin-
ion the work in question may be performed better or more
economically by day labor, or the materials or supplies pur-
chased at a lower price in the open market and after the adop-
tion of a resolution to this effect by a four-fifths vote, they
may proceed to have the said work done or materials or sup-
plies purchased without further observance of the foregoing
provisions of this section; provided further, that nothing in
this section shall require the care, repair or maintenance of
streets or public utilities to be let by contract
   Section 11. Power to do Public Work Direct: The Coun-
cil shall have the power to provide by ordinance a complete
procedure whereby the City may bid on all public work done
under the provisions of any local improvement ordinance or
resolution. Said ordinance shall provide the procedure whereby
the City shall perform such public work for which the City
may be the lowest bidder. A revolving fund may be created
by bond issue for the purpose of financing the cost of such
public work.
   Section 12. Advertising: All official advertising of the
City shall be done in a newspaper of general circulation as
defined by the laws of the State of California, which newspaper
shall be published in the City of Visalia, and shall be desig-
nated by the Council as the official newspaper. The Council
shall annually call for bids for such advertising, and a contract
3822               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ R e S . C h . 198

therefor shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder;
provided, that the Council may reject all bids and may again
call for bids; and provided further that no defect or irregu-
larity in proceedings taken under this section, or failure of
the Council to designate an official newspaper, shall invalidate
any publication, where the same is otherwise in conformity to
law or this charter.
    Section 13. Councilmen Ineligible to Other City Positions:
No member of the Council shall be eligible to any office or em-
ployment provided for in this charter except an elective office,
during the term for which he was elected.
    Section 14. Vacancies in the Council: Any member of the
 Council who is absent from all meetings thereof for two con-
secutive months, unless excused by the Council, shall forfeit his
office. Any vacancies occurring in the Council may be filled by
a person appointed by a majority vote of the whole Council.
 Said person appointed shall serve until his successor is elected
and qualified. Such successor shall be elected at the next
regular election at which members of the Council are chosen,
provided there is sufficient time to nominate and elect such
 successor at said next regular election.
    Section 15. Committees of Council. The Council shall ap-
point such standing and other committees as it deems neces-
 sary.
    Section 16. Sale or Lease of City Property: No sale of
 real estate shall be authorized by the Council except by ordi-
 nance passed by the affirmative vote of four-fifths of all the
 members and no lease shall be made for a period of longer
 than five years, except by ordinance adopted by the Council.
    Section 17. Independent Audit: the Council shall employ,
 at the beginning of each fiscal year, an independent certified
 public accountant who, at such time or times as may be speci-
 fied by the Council, at least annually, shall examine the books,
 records, inventories, and reports of all officers and employees
 who receive, handle or disburse public funds and all such other
 officers and employees and departments as the Council may
 direct. As soon as practicable after the end of the fiscal year,
 a final audit and report shall be submitted by such accountant
 to the Council, one copy thereof to be distributed to each mem-
 ber, one to the Fiscal Officer, one to the City Manager and
 one to the City Attorney respectively, and three (3) additional
 copies to be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk, where
 they shall be available for inspection by the general public.
    Section 18. Official Bonds: The Council shall fix by ordi-
 nance the amounts and terms of the official bonds of all officials
 or employees who are required by ordinance to give such bonds.
 All bonds shall be executed by responsible corporate surety,
 shall be approved as to form by the City Attorney and shall
 be filed with the City Clerk. Premiums on official bonds shall
 be paid by the City.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 1981               REGULAR SESSION                  3823

   There shall be no personal liability upon, or any right to
recover against, a superior officer, or his bond, for any wrong-
ful act or omission of his subordinate, unless such superior
officer was a party to, or conspired in such wrongful act or
omission.
   Section 19. Every officer of the City, before entering upon
the duties of his office, shall take and file with the City Clerk
the constitutional oath of office, except that the oath of the
City Clerk shall be filed with the Fiscal Officer.
   Section 20. City Clerk: The City Clerk shall keep, under
the direction of the Council, a full and true record in a book,
of all proceedings of the Council and of the Board of Equaliza-
tion. He shall keep a book, marked ' ' Ordinances,'' in which he
shall copy all ordinances, with his certificate annexed to said
copy, stating that it is a full and true record thereof, and that
such ordinance has been duly published. Said record copy,
with such certificate shall be prima facie evidence of the con-
tents of such ordinances and of the passage and publication
thereof. The Clerk shall also keep an index to the minutes of
the Council and to said Ordinance Book. The City Clerk shall
be the custodian of the City Seal and shall affix the same to all
official certificates made by him and to other papers when di-
rected by the Council to attest or execute the same. He shall
have power to administer oaths and affirmations, to take affi-
davits, and to certify the same. He shall have such other
powers and perform such other duties as may be provided by
this charter or by ordinance.

                            Article V I I .
                            City Attorney
   Section 1. The City Attorney shall be a qualified elector
of the City at the time of his appointment, and shall be an
attorney and counselor-at-law, duly admitted to practice law
in the State of California. He shall have been actually engaged
in the practice of his profession in this State for a period of
at least three years next before his appointment.
   Section 2. It shall be his duty when directed by the Council
to prosecute on behalf of the people, all criminal cases for
violations of this charter and of City Ordinances, and to attend
to all suits and other matters to which the City is a party or
in which the City may be legally interested. He shall be in
attendance at every meeting of the Council, unless excused
therefrom by the Mayor or the Council. He shall give his
advice or opinion in writing whenever required by the Council
or other officers, except the Board of Education. He shall be
the legal advisor of all City officers; he shall approve the forms
of all bonds given to and all contracts made with the City;
he shall, when required by the Council, or any member thereof,
draft all proposed ordinances for the City, and amendments
thereto; and shall do and perform all such things touching his
3824               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            [R e S - Qh. 198

office as the Council may require of him, and at the expiration
of his term shall surrender to his successor all books, papers
and documents pertaining to the City's business.
   Section 3. He shall receive as compensation a salary to
be fixed by resolution, and in case the Council shall require
him to devote all of his time to the duties of his office, he shall
receive in addition thereto, such reasonable fees as the Council
may allow for suits or proceedings before any court or com-
mission in which he has been directed by the Council to act or
appear.
   Section 4. The Council shall have power to direct and con-
trol the prosecution and defense of all suits and proceedings
to which the city is a party or in which it is interested, and
may employ counsel to assist the City Attorney therein.

                          Article V I I I .
                          City Manager
   Section 1. The City Manager need not be a resident of the
 State of California at the time of his appointment. His powers
and duties shall be:
   1. To see that all ordinances of the City are enforced;
   2. To appoint, except as otherwise provided in this charter,
all officers, heads of departments or divisions, and all deputies,
 assistants and employees in the several departments and
offices, and to remove same. Appointment and removal of de-
partment heads shall be subject to the approval of the
Council and shall not be effective without such approval;
   3. To keep the Council fully informed as to compliance with
the law in the operation of public utilities, to see that the pro-
visions of franchises, permits and privileges granted by the
City are fully observed, and to report to the Council any vio-
lation thereof;
   4. To attend all meetings of the Council unless excused
therefrom by the Council or by the Mayor;
   5. To act as purchasing agent for all departments of the
City. Provided, however, that he may designate some officer or
employee of the City to act as assistant purchasing agent, and
perform the duties of the purchasing agent;
   6. To examine or cause to be examined, without notice, the
official conduct of any officer, assistant, deputy, clerk or em-
ployee in any of the departments of the city government, ex-
cept of the Council and Board of Education;
   7. To keep the Council advised as to the needs of the City;
   8. To appoint and remove at his pleasure, a secretary;
   9. To prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and specifi-
cations for work which the Council may order, coming under
his supervision;
   10. To have control, subject to such ordinances as may
from time to time be adopted, of all public utilities owned
and operated by the City;
                     1969
Res. Ch. 198]               REGULAR SESSION                  3825

   11. To devote his entire time to the discharge of his offi-
cial duties;
  12. To perform such other duties as may be required by
this charter or as the Council may require of him.
   Section 2. In case of absence, sickness, or other disability
of the City Manager to act, the Council may designate some
other person to perform his duties during sueh disability.

                          Article IX.
                     Fiscal Administration
   Section 1. Indebtedness: No indebtedness shall be in-
curred on behalf of the city, for any purpose, unless and until
the same shall have been authorized by ordinance, resolution
or order of the Council.
   Section 2. Fiscal Officer: A Fiscal Officer shall be ap-
pointed by the City Manager subject to the approval of the
City Council, and the City Manager shall establish the quali-
fications, duties and functions of such Fiscal Officer.
   Section 3. Demands Against the City: Moneys shall be
drawn from the City Treasury only in the manner prescribed
by ordinance of the Council.
   Section 4. Filing of Claims: Except as otherwise provided
by the provisions of State law applicable to chartered cities,
claims against the City shall be filed as prescribed by ordinance.
   Section 5. The Fiscal Year: The fiscal year of the city
shall commence upon the first day of July of each year, or at
such other time as may be fixed by ordinance.
   Section 6. Annual budget: On such date in each year as
shall be fixed by the Council, the City Manager shall send
to the Council a careful estimate, in writing, of the amounts
required for the business and proper conduct of the various
departments, offices, boards and commissions of the city, over
which he has control, during the next ensuing year. The City
Manager shall also at said time submit to the Council an
estimate of the amount of income from fines, licenses, and
other sources of revenue, exclusive of taxes upon property, and
the probable amount required to be levied and raised by taxa-
tion.
   Section 7. Public Hearing on the Budget: After review-
ing the proposed budget as submitted by the City Manager
and making such revisions as it may deem advisable, the
Council shall determine the time for holding of a public hearing
upon, and shall cause a notice thereof to be published not less
than ten (10) days prior to said hearing by at least one in-
sertion in the official newspaper of the city.
   Copies of the proposed budget shall be available for inspec-
tion by the public at the office of the City Clerk at least ten
 (10) days prior to said hearing.
   At the time so advertised or at any time such public hearing
from time to time be adjourned, the Council shall hold a public
3826               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [ R e s . C h . 198

hearing on the proposed budget at which interested persons
desiring to be heard shall be given such opportunity.
   Section 8. Adoption of the Budget:         After the conclusion
of the public hearing the Council shall further consider the
proposed budget and make any revisions thereof that it may
deem advisable and thereafter it shall adopt the budget with
revisions, if any. Upon final adoption, the budget shall be in
effect for the ensuing fiscal year.
   From the effective date of the budget, the several amounts
stated therein as proposed expenditures shall be and become
appropriated to the various departments or activities therein
described. All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the
fiscal year to the extent that they shall not have been expended
or lawfully encumbered.
   At any meeting after the adoption of the budget, the Council
may amend or supplement the budget by motion.
   Section 9. Tax System: The Council shall by ordinance
provide a system for the assessment, levy and collection of
City taxes upon property.
   Section 10. The Council shall have power by ordinance to
authorize the transfer to and the assumption and discharge by
officers of the County of Tulare, of any function of the City re-
lating to the assessment of property for taxation, and equali-
zation of such assessment, the collection of taxes levied for
municipal purposes, the collection of assessments levied for
local improvements, the sale of property for non-payment of
taxes levied for municipal purposes or for non-payment of
assessments levied for local improvements, and the redemption
of property from sales for either of said purposes and may re-
peal any such ordinances.
   Section 11. Tax Rate: The total tax rate for any one year
shall not exceed one per cent of the assessed valuation, unless
a special tax be authorized, as provided in this charter; and
the proceeds of any such special tax shall be used for no other
purpose than that specified for which it was voted; provided,
however, that in addition to said one per cent there shall be
included in every annual levy, a sufficient amount to cover all
liabilities of the City for principal and interest of all bonds or
judgments due and unpaid or to become due during the ensu-
ing fiscal year and not otherwise provided for.
    (a) Special Levies: Special levies in addition to the above
may be made annually in amounts not to exceed the limits
hereinafter enumerated in this section, respectively, on each
$100.00 of the assessed value of the taxable property in the
City:
      (1) For the support and maintenance of free public
   libraries and reading rooms, Thirty Cents (30c).
      (2) For the support and maintenance of parks, play-
   grounds and recreation centers, Thirty Cents (30c).
The City shall spend each fiscal period not less than the total
amount raised each year from special levies for the free public
                    1969
Kes. Ch. 198]              REGULAR SESSION                 3 827

libraries and reading rooms, and the parks, playgrounds and
recreation centers.
   Section 12. Special Taxes and Bonds: Whenever the
Council shall determine that the public interest demands an
expenditure for municipal purposes, which cannot be provided
for out of the ordinary revenue of the City, it may submit to
the qualified voters at a regular or special election, a proposi-
tion to provide for such expenditure, either by levying a special
tax, or by issuing bonds, but no such special tax shall be levied
nor any such bonds issued, unless authorized by the affirmative
votes of two-thirds of the electors voting at such election. No
bonds shall be issued to meet current expenses.
   The proceedings for the voting and issuing of bonds of the
City shall be had in such a manner and form and under such
conditions as shall be provided from time to time by general
law.
   Section 13. Limit of Bonded Indebtedness.- The bonded
debt of the City shall at no time exceed a total of twenty per
cent of the assessed valuation of all property taxable for City
purposes.
   Section 14. City Promotion: The Council may appropri-
ate and spend money from the funds of the City for any or
all of the following purposes: Reception and entertainment of
public guests, assistance of public celebrations, fairs and exhi-
bitions, to aid or carry on the work of immigration to the City,
to encourage and promote industrial and commercial develop-
ment and tourism; and generally, for the purpose of advertis-
ing the City; provided, however, that the aggregate expendi-
tures from property taxes for all of said purposes shall not
exceed in one fiscal year the sum of four (4c) cents on each
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) of the assessed value of prop-
erty within the City.
                            Article X.
                    Department of Education.
   Section 1. Board of Education: The control of the Public
School Department of the City of Visalia, including the whole
of the Visalia Unified School District, shall be vested in a
Board of Education, which shall consist of seven members
elected from the district at large.
   Section 2. The powers and duties of the Board of Educa-
tion shall be such as are prescribed by the Constitution and
Laws of the State of California.

                           Article X I .
                           City Library
   Section 1. Library Trustees: The Board of Library Trust-
ees shall each serve for a term of four years and until his
successor is appointed and qualified; provided, that at the
first appointment under this charter, two trustees shall be ap-
pointed for two years, and three trustees for four years and
3828              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [ E e S . C h . 198

until their successors are appointed and qualified. In case of a
vacancy the same shall be filled by appointment by the Council
for the remainder of the term then vacant.
   Section 2. The Board of Library Trustees shall have the
power and duty t o :
   (a) Act in an advisory capacity to the Council and the City
Manager in all matters pertaining to library administration.
   (b) Formulate and recommend annually to the Council and
the City Manager a budget for library services.
   (c) Act in an advisory capacity to the Council and the City
Manager regarding provision of library services for the inhab-
itants of the City.
                          Article X I I .
           Parks, Playgrounds and Eecreation Centers
  Section 1. The Council may, by ordinance, provide for the
appointment of a commission of five members, to serve without
compensation, and to act in an advisory capacity to the Council
and City Manager in all matters pertaining to Parks, Play-
grounds and Eecreation Centers.

                         Article X I I I .
                         City Planning
   Section 1. Planning Commission: The Council may, by
ordinance, provide for the appointment of a City Planning
Commission of five members, to serve without compensation,
and to have such powers and duties as the Council may pre-
scribe relating to City Planning.
   The Planning Commission shall have the power and duty t o :
   (a) Eecommend to the Council, after a public hearing
thereon, the adoption, amendment or repeal of a General Plan
or any part thereof, for the physical development of the City;
   (b) Exercise such functions with respect to land subdivi-
sions, planning and zoning as may be prescribed by ordinance
or resolution.
   (c) Perform such other duties relating to planning and zon-
ing as the Council may require by ordinance or resolution.
                         Article XIV.
                          Franchises
   Section 1. Franchise, renewals, extensions or amendments
of franchise may be granted by the City Council whenever, in
its opinion, the public necessity or convenience may require
any such grant. No such grant shall be exclusive, nor made
except by ordinance, nor in violation of any limitation con-
tained in this charter, nor for a longer term than fifty years.
The enactment, publication and taking effect of any such ordi-
nance shall be governed by and subject to the provisions of
Article VI and Article XV of this charter; provided, that no
such ordinance shall be passed as an emergency measure. No
                     1969
Res. Ch. 198]               REGULAR SESSION                  3829

public utility franchise shall be transferable except with the
approval of the City Council expressed by ordinance; and
copies of all transfers, trust deeds, mortgages or other docu-
ments affecting the title or use of public utilities shall be filed
with the City Council within ten days after the execution
thereof.
   Section 2. Any person desiring any franchise or a renewal
of any franchise, may file with the City Clerk a written appli-
cation therefor, accompanied by a cash deposit of One Hundred
 ($100.00) Dollars, as a fund out of which to pay the expenses
connected with such application, and proceedings had or taken
thereunder. In the event the franchise or the renewal of fran-
chise so applied for is not granted, the unexpended portion of
said deposit, if any, shall be returned to the applicant; and if
the franchise or the renewal of franchise applied for shall be
awarded to some other than the applicant, such deposit shall be
returned to the applicant. No franchise or any renewal of a
franchise shall be finally awarded, until all expenses incurred
in connection with the awarding of the same shall have been
fully paid by the person to whom the same shall be awarded.
   Section 3. Upon the filing of the said application and the
making of the deposit, as aforesaid, the City Council shall, if it
propose to grant the same, proceed to determine the char-
acter of the franchise or of the renewal franchise applied for,
and shall determine the terms, restrictions, reservations, con-
ditions, provisions, and the form of the ordinance to be
adopted for the purpose of granting the Same. And if such
application be for the renewal of an existing franchise, the
Council shall not be in any way limited or restricted in its
determination of such terms, restrictions, reservations, condi-
tions or provisions, by the provisions of the franchise sought
to be renewed.
   Section 4. The Council shall thereupon advertise the fact
of said application, together with the statement that it proposes
to grant the same in the form so determined, in one or more
newspapers of general circulation published in the City of
Visalia, once a day for five successive days, or as often during
said period as such newspapers are published, and the full
 publication must be completed not less than twenty nor more
than thirty days before any further action is taken thereon.
 Said advertisement must state the character of the franchise or
of the renewal of franchise proposed, and set forth in full the
form of the ordinance proposed for the granting of the same,
and must state that sealed bids therefor will be received and
opened at a time and place to be stated in said advertisement,
and that the said franchise or renewal of franchise will be
awarded to the highest and best bidder; provided that no
franchise nor any renewal of any franchise shall be sold for
less than $500.00.
   Section 5. At the time of opening the sealed bids, any re-
 sponsible person, firm or corporation may bid for said franchise
3830               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Ees. Ch. 198

  or renewal of franchise, a sum not less than ten per cent above
 the highest sealed bid therefor, and such bid so made may be
 raised, and such bidding may continue until finally said fran-
  chise or renewal of franchise shall be struck off, sold and
 awarded by the City Council to the person, firm or corporation
 offering the highest and best bid therefor; provided, that such
 bidder shall, before the making of such award deposit with the
  City Clerk at least ten per cent of the amount of his bid, and
 if such successful bidder be not the applicant, the sum. of One
  Hundred ($100.00) Dollars in addition to his bid shall be de-
 posited by him at the same time, and in the event of his failure
 to make such deposit or deposits, his bid shall be rejected and
 no further proceedings for the sale of said franchise, or renewal
 of franchise shall be had without readvertising in the manner
 hereinbefore provided; and in case the successful bidder shall
 fail to deposit with the Treasurer, the remaining ninety per
 centum of his bid within five days after its acceptance, the
 award of said franchise or renewal of franchise shall be set
 aside and all deposits theretofore made thereon shall be for-
 feited to the City, and no further proceedings for the sale of
 said franchise or renewal of franchise shall be had without re-
 advertising in the manner hereinbefore provided.
    Section 6. The successful bidder for any franchise or re-
 newal of franchise sold or awarded under this charter, shall file
 a bond running to the City of Visalia, with at least two good
 and sufficient sureties or other good and sufficient bond pro-
 vided by law, to be approved by the City Council, in a penal
 sum to be prescribed by the City Council and set forth in the
 advertisement for bids, conditioned that such bidder shall
 well and truly observe, fulfill and perform each and every
 term, condition and provision of such franchise or renewal of
 franchise, and that in case of any breach of condition of such
bond, the whole amount of the penal sum therein named shall
 be taken and deemed to be liquidated damages and shall be
 recoverable from the principal and sureties upon said bond,
 or from any or either of them. Said bond shall be filed with
the City Clerk within five days after such franchise, or re-
newal of franchise is awarded, and upon the filing and ap-
proval of such bond the said franchise or renewal of franchise
shall be granted by the City Council by ordinance to the
person, firtn or corporation to whom it was struck off, sold and
awarded. And in case the said bond shall not be so filed, the
award of such franchise or renewal of franchise shall be set
aside and any money paid therefor shall be forfeited to the
City and said franchise or renewal of franchise may, in the
discretion of the City Council, be readvertised and again
offered for sale in the same manner and under the same re-
strictions as in this charter provided for the original applica-
tion, advertisement and sale.
    Section 7. No clause or condition of any kind shall be in-
serted in any franchise or renewal of franchise offered for sale
                    1969
Res. Ch. 198]              REGULAR SESSION                 3831

under the terms of this charter, which shall directly or indi-
rectly restrict free and open competition in bidding therefor,
and no clause or provision shall be inserted in any franchise
or renewal of franchise offered for sale, which shall in any wise
favor one person, firm or corporation as against another in
bidding for the purchase thereof.
   Section 8. Extensions and amendments of existing fran-
chise may be granted by the City Council in the same manner
and subject to the same limitation, restrictions and provisions
as provided in this charter for the granting of franchises and
renewals of franchises; provided that extensions or amend-
ments of franchises shall not be advertised for sale, or sold, or
awarded to the highest bidder, and the provision of this charter
governing the advertising for sale, and the sale and award of
franchises or renewals of franchises to the highest bidder, shall
have no application to the granting of extensions or amend-
ments of existing franchises.
   Section 9. If any ordinance granting a franchise or a re-
newal, extension or amendment of any franchise shall fail to
go into effect by reason of its not being approved by a ma-
jority of the votes cast at an election to which the same was
referred by referendum proceedings as provided in this char-
ter, such failure to go into effect shall not entitle the person
to whom the grant of such franchise or renewal, extension or
amendment of franchise was made, to claim a refund of any
moneys paid or deposited by him as provided in this charter,
on account of any of the proceedings had for the obtaining of
such grant. But if any such ordinance shall be repealed by
the City Council upon the filing of a referendum petition
demanding its repeal, or a reference thereof to a vote of the
electors of the city, without submitting it to such vote, all
moneys paid or deposited by the grantee of such franchise
renewal, extension or amendment of franchise as provided in
this charter, in excess of the actual expenses of the proceed-
ings for such grant, shall be refunded to such grantee.
   Section 10 Any public utility franchise may be terminated
by ordinance at specified intervals of not more than ten years
after the beginning of operation, whenever the city shall de-
termine to acquire by condemnation or otherwise, the prop-
erty of such utility. Indeterminate franchise may also be
granted, subject always to the right of the city at any time
and upon six months' notice in writing to acquire and possess
the property of the grantee.
   Section 11. All grants, renewals, extensions or amendments
of public utility franchises, whether so provided in the ordi-
nance or not, shall be subject to the right of the city:
    (a) To repeal the same by ordinance at any time for non-
use, or for failure to begin construction within the time pre-
 scribed; (b) to require proper and adequate extensions of
 plant and service, and the maintenance of the plant and fix-
tures at the highest practicable standard of efficiency; (c) to
3832               STATUTES OP CALIFOHNIA            [UeS. Ch. 198

regulate the rates and charges of all public utilities; (d) to
establish reasonable standards of service and quality of prod-
ucts and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
 (e) to prescribe the form of accounts and at any time to ex-
 amine and audit the accounts and other records of any such
utility, and to require annual and other reports by each such
 public utility; provided, that if a public service commission
 or any other authority shall be given the power by law to
prescribe the forms of accounts for public utilities throughout
the state or throughout any district of which the city is a
part, the forms so prescribed shall be controlling so far as
they go, but the City Council may prescribe more detailed
 forms for the utilities within its jurisdiction; (f) to impose
 such other regulations as may be conducive to the safety, wel-
fare, and accomodation of the public.
   Section 12. The consent of abutting and adjacent property
 owners shall not be required for the construction, extension,
maintenance or operation of any public utility, but any such
property owner shall be entitled to recover from the owner of
such public utility, the actual amount of damages to such
property on account thereof, less any benefits received there-
from; provided, suit is commenced within two years after
the damage is begun.
   Section 13. All extensions of public utilities within the
city limits shall become a part of the aggregate property of
the public utility, shall be operated as such, and shall be
subject to all the obligations and reserved rights contained
in this charter, and in any original grant hereafter made. The
right to use and maintain any extension shall terminate with
the original grant and shall be terminable as provided in sec-
tions 10, 11 and 17 hereof.
   Section 14. Every public utility franchise hereafter granted
shall be held subject to all the terms and conditions contained
in this Article, whether or not such terms are specifically men-
tioned in such franchise. Nothing in this charter shall operate
to limit in any way, except as specifically stated, the discre-
tion of the City Council or the electors of the city in impos-
ing terms and conditions in connection with any franchise grant.
   Section 15. Within six months after this charter takes effect,
every public utility and every owner of a public utility fran-
chise, shall file with the city, certified copies of all the fran-
chises owned or claimed or under which any such utility is
operated. The City shall compile and maintain a public record
of all public utility franchises and of all public utility fixtures
in the streets of the city.
   Section 16. I t shall be the duty of the City Manager to
investigate and report on all proposed ordinances relating to
public utilities. He shall exercise a diligent oversight over the
operation of all public utilities operated within the city. The
City Attorney shall represent the city in all proceedings be-
fore any State Public Utilities Commission involving the pub-
                    1969
Ties. Ch. 198]             REGULAR SESSION                   3833
lie utilities within the city. The City Manager shall perform
such other duties in relation to public utilities as may be
prescribed by the City Council.
   Section 17. Accounts shall be kept for each public utility
owned or operated by the city, distinct from other city accounts
and in such manner as to show the true and complete financial
results of such city ownership, or ownership and operation,
including all assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Such
accounts shall show the actual cost to the city of each public
utility owned, the cost of all extensions, additions and im-
provements, all expenses of maintenance, the amounts set aside
for sinking fund purposes, and in the case of city operation,
all operating expenses of every description. The accounts shall
show as nearly as possible the value of any service furnished
to or rendered, by any such public utility by or to any other
city or governmental department. The accounts shall also show
a proper allowance for depreciation, insurance and interest
on the investment, and estimates of the amount of taxes that
would be chargeable against the property if privately owned.
The City Council shall annually cause to be made and printed
for public distribution, a report showing the financial results
of such city ownership or ownership and operation, which
report shall give the information specified in this section and
such other information as the City Council shall deem ex-
pedient.
   Section 18. The city may establish, acquire, lease and
operate, or cease to operate and dispose of public utilities and
quasi public utilities at its own option in the manner provided
by the laws now existing or hereafter enacted, or by the
majority vote of the registered, qualified electors of the city in
the manner provided by ordinance enacted by the City Council
by the affirmative vote of four members of such Council. All
amendments of such ordinances shall require a like vote. I n
such ordinances the City Council may define what are public
utilities and quasi public utilities.
   Section 19. In acquiring public utilities and quasi public
utilities the city may purchase the same subject to existing
bond issues and other obligations thereof, whether secured by
mortgages or trust deeds against the property of such utilities
or not, and may assume and pay such obligations as part of
the purchase price.
                            Article XV.
               Initiative, Referendum and Eecall
  Section 1. The Initiative, Eef erendum and Recall: Except
insofar as is otherwise provided by ordinances hereinafter
enacted, the provisions of the Elections Code of the State of
California, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended,
governing the initiative, the referendum and the recall of
municipal officers shall apply to the use thereof in the City
insofar as the same are not in conflict with this Charter.
3834               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            [ R e s . C h . 198

                         Article XVI.
                    Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 1. Notwithstanding anything in this charter con-
 tained, the City Manager may from time to time, in order to
 facilitate the prompt, economical and efficient dispatch of City
business, assign assistants, deputies, clerks or employees from
 any office or department of the City government to perform
work or service in connection with any other office or depart-
ment of the City government or may assign any assistant,
 deputy, clerk or employee of the city to work in more than one
of said offices or departments.
    Section 2. AH general laws of the State applicable to mu-
 nicipal corporations, now or hereafter enacted, and which are
 not in conflict with the provisions of this charter or with or-
 dinances or resolutions adopted in pursuance of this charter,
 shall be applicable to the City.
    Section 3. "Wherever in this charter the word " C i t y " oc-
 curs, it means the City of Visalia, and every department, board
or officer whenever either is mentioned, means a department,
board or officer, as the case may be, of the City of Visalia.
    Section 4. The compensation of elective officers shall not be
 increased during the terms of their respective offices.
    Section 5. If any officer of the City shall die or remove
from the City, or absent himself therefrom for more than
thirty days consecutively, without the permission of the
 Council, or if he shall fail to qualify by taking the oath of
office and filing his official bond, whenever such bond is re-
quired, within fifteen days from the time his certificate of
election or appointment is mailed or delivered to him, or if he
shall resign or be removed from office, or if his election shall be
finally declared void by any competent tribunal, or if he
shall be convicted of a felony, or if he shall be adjudged in-
sane, or if he shall cease to discharge the duties of his office
 (other than that of member of the Council) for two consecu-
tive months, unless prevented by sickness, his office shall be-
come vacant.
   Section 6. The improvement, widening and opening of
streets, the planting of trees, and the making of any other
public improvement may be done and assessments therefor may
be levied in conformity with and under the authority conferred
by general laws; provided, however, that the Council may by
ordinance adopt a procedure for the improvement of streets,
alleys or other public places, the laying of pipes, or conduits
or for the removal of dirt, rubbish, weeds and other rank
growths and materials which may injure or endanger neigh-
boring property or the health or the welfare of inhabitants of
the vicinity, from buildings, lots and grounds and the sidewalks
opposite thereto, and for making and enforcing assessments
against property benefited or affected thereby or from which
such removal is made, for the cost of such improvements or
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 198]              REGULAR SESSION                 3835
removal and may make such assessments a lien on such prop-
erty superior to all other claims or liens thereon, except State,
County and Municipal taxes, but no such ordinance shall pre-
vent the Council from proceeding under general laws for said
purposes.
   Section 7. All officers and boards shall deliver to their suc-
cessors all papers, books, documents, records, archives and other
properties pertaining to their respective offices or departments
in their possession or under their control
   Section 8. No member of the Council or of any board and
no officer or employee of the City, shall be or become interested
in any contract for which bids are or may be required for the
furnishing of labor or materials to or for the City, nor shall
either or any of them receive any gratuity or advantage from
any contract or from the contractor furnishing any labor or
material under any contract, the cost or consideration of which
is payable from the City Treasury. Any such contract with the
City in which any such officer or employee is or becomes in-
terested shall be declared void by the Council.
   Section 9. All officers, clerks and assistants of the City and
departments thereof, except such as may be employed for
special purposes must be citizens of the United States during
their period of employment.
   Section 10. No officer or employee of the City shall give or
promise to give to any person, any portion of his compensation,
or any money or thing of value in consideration of having been
or of being nominated, appointed, voted for or elected to any
office or employment.
   Section 11. No officer or employee shall accept any donation
or gratuity in money, or other thing of value, either directly
or indirectly from any subordinate or employee, or from any-
one under his charge, or from any candidate or applicant for
any position as employee or subordinate in any department of
the City.
    Section 12. No officer or employee of the City shall aid or
assist a bidder in securing a contract to furnish labor, or ma-
terials or supplies at a higher price or rate than that proposed
by any other responsible bidder, or shall favor one bidder over
another, giving or withholding information, or shall willfully
mislead any bidder in regard to the character of the materials
 or supplies of a quality inferior to that called for by the con-
 tract, or shall knowingly certify to a greater amount of labor
performed than has actually been performed, or to the receipt
of a greater amount of material or supplies than has actually
been received.
    Section 13. Every officer who shall willfully approve, allow
or pay any demand on the Treasury, not authorized by law,
 shall be liable to the City individually and his official bond
for the amount of the demand so approved, allowed or paid,
 and shall forfeit such office and be forever disbarred and dis-
 qualified from holding any position in the service of the City.
3836               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Ch. 198

     Section 14. All books and records of every office and de-
  partment shall be open to the inspection of any citizen during
  business hours subject to the proper rules and regulations for
  the efficient conduct of the business of such department or
  office; but the records of the Police Department shall not be
  subject to such inspection except by permission of the proper
  police authorities.
     Section 15. Copies or extracts, duly certified, from said
  books and records open for inspection, shall be given by the
  officer having the same in custody to any person demanding
  the same and paying the costs of reproduction thereof.
     Section 16. AH officers, assistants and employees in office,
  when this charter takes effect, shall continue to hold and exer-
  cise their respective offices or employment, under the terms of
  this charter, until the election or appointment and qualifica-
 tion of their successors.
     Section 17. The present City Council, in accordance with
 Article V of this Charter shall provide for the holding of the
 first election of officers under this charter and shall canvass
 the votes and declare the results thereof.
     Section 18. All vested rights of the City shall continue
 and shall not in any manner be affected by its adoption of
 this charter, nor shall any right, liability, pending suit or
 prosecution, either in behalf of or against the City, be affected
 by the adoption of this charter, unless otherwise herein ex-
 pressly provided. All contracts entered into by the City or
 for its benefit prior to the taking effect of this charter shall
 be continued and perfected hereunder. Public improvements
 for which legislative steps shall have been taken under laws
 in force at the time this charter takes effect, may be carried
to completion in accordance with the provisions of such laws.
    Section 19. If any section or part of a section of this
charter proves to be invalid, it shall not be held to invalidate
or impair the validity of any other section or part of a section,
unless it clearly appears that such other section, or part of a
section, is dependent for its operation upon the section or part
of a section so held invalid.
    Section. 20 When making purchases for all departments
of the City, local merchants shall be given the preference,
quality and prices being equal.
    Section 21. Neither the City Manager nor any person in
the employ of the City shall take any active part in securing,
or shall contribute money toward the nomination or election
of any candidate for a municipal office.
    Section 22. All the powers of the City except as otherwise
provided by this charter, are hereby vested in the Council.
    Section 23. The violation of any provision of this Charter
or of any ordinance of the City shall be deemed a misdemeanor,
and may be prosecuted by the authorities of the City in the
name of the people of the State of California, or may be re-
dressed by civil action, at the option of said authorities. The
                    1969
Res. Ch. 198]              REGULAR SESSION                  3837

maximum penalty upon conviction for the violation of any
provision of this Charter, or of any ordinance of the City, shall
be by a fine of not exceeding $1000 or by imprisonment for a
term of not exceeding one year or by both such fine and im-
prisonment. Any person sentenced to imprisonment for the
violation of a provision of this Charter or of any ordinance
may be imprisoned in the City jail, or, if the Council by ordi-
nance shall so prescribe, in the county jail of the county in
which the City of Visalia is situated, or any road camp estab-
lished in Tulare County, in which case the expense of such
imprisonment shall be a charge in favor of such county against
the City of Visalia.
   Section 24. The members of the City Council and Board of
Education in office at the time of the approval of this Charter
by the Legislature shall continue to hold office and discharge
their duties for the balance of the term for which they were
elected, or until their successors are elected and qualified All
appointive officials, officers and employees of the City now in
office or employed at the time of the approval of this Charter
by the Legislature, shall continue to hold their office or em-
ployment until they are reappointed or their successors are
appointed in their place in accordance with the provisions of
this Charter.
   Section 25 For the purpose of electing all elective officers
and all other purposes, this charter shall take effect from the
time of its approval by the Legislature.
  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
hereto affixed the seal of said City of Visalia this 1st day
of May, 1969.
                             EDMUND L.   VOLLMER
  (SEAL)                     Mayor of the City of Visalia
                             JEAN S.   BANKS
                             City Clerk of the City of Visalia
and
   WHEREAS, The proposed revision of the charter, as adopted
and ratified as hereinabove set forth, has been and now is
duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of California
for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of altera-
tion or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I
of the Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the revision of the Charter of the City of Visalia, County
of Tulare, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by, the
electors of the city, as hereinbefore fully set forth, is hereby
approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for
and as a revision of the Charter of the City of Visalia, County
of Tulare.
3838               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Ch. 199

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 199
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 179—Approving certain
  amendments to the Charter of the City of Santa Barbara,
  a municipal corporation in the County of Santa Barbara,
  State of California, voted for and ratified by the qualified
  electors of said city at a special municipal election con-
  solidated with the general municipal election held therein
  on April 15,1969.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 12, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been duly and regularly taken
and had for the adoption and ratification of two amendments,
hereinafter set forth, to the Charter of the City of Santa
Barbara, a municipal corporation in the County of Santa
Barbara, State of California, and set out in the certificate of
the mayor and city clerk of said city as follows:

CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION OF TWO CHARTER AMENDMENTS
       BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF SANTA BARBARA

State of California     ]
County of Santa Barbara J- ss.
City of Santa Barbara   J
   We, the undersigned, Gerald S. Firestone, Mayor of the City
of Santa Barbara, and Robert W. Hutton, City Clerk of said
City, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Santa Barbara, a municipal corporation in
the County of Santa Barbara, State of California, is now and
at all times herein mentioned was a city duly organized, exist-
ing and acting under a freeholders charter adopted under and
pursuant to Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the
State of California.
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Article
X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the Council
of said City, being the legislative body thereof, duly and regu-
larly submitted to the qualified electors of said City two pro-
posals for the amendment of the Charter of said City at a
special municipal election consolidated with the general munici-
pal election duly and regularly called and held for that purpose
in the City of Santa Barbara on the 15th day of April, 1969,
said charter amendments being herein designated as Charter
Amendment No. 1 and Charter Amendment No. 2.
  That on the 6th and 7th days of March, 1969, said Council
caused said proposed Charter amendments to be duly and reg-
ularly published and advertised in each and every edition of
said 6th and 7th days of March, 1969, in the Santa Barbara
News-Press, a daily newspaper of general circulation, printed,
published and circulated in said City, there being no official
paper of said City.
                    1969
lies. Ch. 199]             REGULAR SESSION                  ^839

   That said Council caused copies of said proposed Charter
amendments to be printed in convenient pamphlet form and
in type of not less than 10-point and caused copies thereof to
be mailed to each of the qualified electors of said City.
   That said Council, until the day fixed for the election upon
said proposed Charter amendments, did advertise in said Santa
Barbara News-Press, a daily newspaper of general circulation
in said City, a notice that copies thereof might be had upon
application therefor; that copies of said proposed Charter
amendments could be had upon application therefor at the
office of the City Clerk of said City up to and including the
day fixed for said special municipal election.
   That said special municipal election consolidated with a
general municipal election was duly and regularly held in
said City on the 15th day of April, 1969, which date was not
less than forty (40) and not more than sixty (60) days after
completion of the advertising of said proposed Charter amend-
ments and the returns of said special election were duly and
regularly canvassed and the results declared and entered,
namely, that at said election a majority of the qualified elec-
tors voting thereon voted in favor of and did ratify said
Charter amendments hereinafter specifically set forth.
   That said amendments to the Charter of said City so rati-
fied by the voters of said City are as follows, to wit:

                 Charter Amendment No. 1:
   That Section 512 of Article V of the Charter of the City of
Santa Barbara be amended to read as follows:
   "Section 512. Ordinances, Enactment, Publication. I n
addition to such other acts of the City Council as are required
by this Charter to be taken by ordinance, every act of the
City Council establishing a fine or other penalty, or granting
a franchise, shall be by ordinance.
   " T h e enacting clause of all ordinances shall be substan-
tially as follows: ' The City Council of the City of Santa Bar-
bara does ordain as follows'.
   " T h e City Clerk shall cause each ordinance to be published
at least once in the official newspaper within fifteen days after
its adoption; provided, that the Council, in lieu of such pub-
lication, in its discretion may order any ordinance published
by title only in the official newspaper within fifteen days after
its adoption, and providing that the full text be available to
the public at the City Clerk's office, and such publication by
title only shall so state."

                 Charter Amendment No. 2 :
   That Section 1302 of Article X I I I of the Charter of the
City of Santa Barbara be amended to read as follows:
   "Section 1302. Procedure for Holding Elections. All
elections shall be held in accordance with the provisions of the
   121—1954
3840               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 200

Elections Code of the State of California, as the same now
exist or hereafter may be amended, for the holding of munic-
ipal elections so far as the same are not in conflict with this
Charter. The City Council may by ordinance supplement the
provisions of said Elections Code insofar as the same are not
in conflict therewith."
   That we have compared the amendments as stated herein
with the original proposals submitted to the electors of said
City and find and certify that they are full, true and cor-
rect copies thereof.
  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of said City of Santa Barbara to be affixed
hereto this 5th day of May, 1969.
                                 GERALD S. FIRESTONE
   (SEAL)                        Gerald S. Firestone, Mayor of
                                  the City of Santa Barbara,
                                   California
                                 ROBERT W. HUTTON
                                 Robert W. Hutton, City Clerk of
                                   the City of Santa Barbara,
                                   California
and
   "WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, have been and
now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of
California for approval or rejection, as a whole without power
of alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendments to the Charter of the City of Santa Bar-
bara, County of Santa Barbara, as proposed to, and adopted
and ratified by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully
set forth, are hereby approved as a whole, without alteration
or amendment, for and as amendments to, and as part of, the
Charter of the City of Santa Barbara, County of Santa Bar-
bara.

              RESOLUTION CHAPTER 200
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 42—Relative to the retention
  of judge advocates and law specialist officers for the armed
  forces.
            [Filed with «Secretary of State June 16, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, There was introduced on January 28, 1969, H.R.
4296 by Congressman Alexander Pirnie of New York, de-
signed to amend Title 37, United States Code, to provide for
                        1969
Res. Ch. 201]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3841
the procurement and retention of judge advocates and law
specialist officers for the armed forces and the measure is
now pending before the House Committee on Armed Services;
and
   WHEREAS, H.R. 4296 is designed to amend Title 37, United
States Code, to provide for the procurement and retention of
judge advocates and law specialist officers for the armed forces
by making provision for special or incentive pay for judge
advocates of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps
and for law specialists of the Coast Guard who extend their
periods of service on active duty by the execution of written
agreements to remain on active duty for a period of at least
three (3) years; and
   WHEREAS, At the present time, similar incentive pay is
paid by the armed forces to doctors, dentists, and veteri-
narians; and
   WHEREAS, The retention rate of legal officers by the armed
services is now dangerously low and the trend to deteriora-
tion should be stopped by early action intended to make legal
careers with the armed forces more financially acceptable; and
   WHEREAS, The Military Justice Act of 1968 has extended
to service personnel the right-to-counsel safeguards which the
United States Supreme Court in recent years has granted to
criminal defendants in the civil courts, and the same law
requires the services to provide qualified and experienced
lawyers as military judges in trials by special and by general
courts-martial and the four services estimate that they will
need approximately 700 additional military lawyers in order
to meet the requirements of the statute; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States
to enact early appropriate legislation approving the subject
matter and the contents of H.R. 4296; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and the Vice Presi-
dent of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, to each Senator and Representative from
California in the Congress of the United States, to the Chair-
man of the House Committee on Armed Services, to the Chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Armed Services, to the
author of H.R. 4296, to the Secretary of Defense, and to the
Executive Secretary, Judge Advocates Association.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 201

Assembly Joint Resolution No. 44—Relative to the equalization
  of the compensation of retired members of the uniformed
  forces.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 16, 1969.]
 3842               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ R e S - Qh. 201

    "WHEREAS, Compensation for retirees of the uniformed serv-
 ices of the United States has normally been computed upon
 active duty rates in accordance with permanent statutory law
 set out in Title 10 of the United States Code; and
    WHEREAS, Persons now retired from the uniformed services,
 with very few exceptions, entered the service while that law
 was in effect and served their entire active career, or the
 greater portion of it, under that system; and
    "WHEREAS, The Military Pay Act of 1958, P.L. 85-422, tem-
 porarily suspended the operation of that law, without remov-
 ing it from the statutes, thus denying the earned pay raise to
 retirees then on the rolls; and
   WHEREAS, The Uniformed Services Pay Act of 1963, P.L.
   88-132, permanently changed Title 10 of the United States
   Code so as to deny the benefits of that act and of future active
   duty pay raises to retirees and to substitute therefor a less
  advantageous system of raises based upon the cost-of-living
  index; and
     WHEREAS, This ex post facto abrogation of the system under
  which today's retirees served and which they had every valid
  right to expect to be continued during their retirement, consti-
  tutes a clear breach of faith with those retirees; and
     WHEREAS, A S a result of this unjust and discriminatory ac-
  tion, there are now seven standards of pay for persons who
  served in the same rank and for the same period of time, with
  the older retirees drawing as much as 32.5 percent less than
  their younger colleagues; and
     WHEREAS, This discriminatory action has had a very ad-
 verse impact not only upon the morale of retirees but also
 upon those now serving in the active forces and consequently
 has contributed to a worsening of the problem of retaining
 professional military personnel in the active forces; and
    WHEREAS, The State of California is privileged to be the
 home of many military retirees who have served their country
 faithfully and well, only to become the subject of the afore-
 mentioned discrimination; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States to
enact appropriate legislation which will remove the existing
discrimination against older retirees by equalizing the com-
pensation of all retired members of the uniformed services who
have served in the same rank and for an equal period of time;
and be it further
    Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.
                      1969
 Res. Ch. 203]               REGULAR SESSION                  3343

                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 202
          Assembly Joint Resolution No. 45—Relative
                  to soil grants for recreation.
             [Piled with Secretary of State June 16, 1969.]

    WHEBEAS, Congress enacted P.L. 566, 83rd Congress, which
 provides technical information and financial grants for soil
 conservation and flood prevention purposes; and
    WHEBEAS, This law does not include recreation as a major
 beneficial use in the programs that are funded under its pro-
 visions ; and
    WHEBEAS, The increasing population and shortening of the
general workweek have placed increasing pressures on existing
recreational facilities; and
   WHEBEAS, To meet this increasing pressure for recreational
facilities it is necessary that multiple use be made of all facil-
ities available; and
   WHEBEAS, Projects developed for soil conservation purposes
might be adapted to other uses, such as recreation; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia) jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to change existing laws regulating grants
for soil conservation purposes to include recreation as a major
beneficial use; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 203
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 67—Relative to a study
     of limited examinations for drivers' license renewals.
             [Piled with Secretary of State June 16, 1969.]

   WHEBEAS, California currently is issuing nearly 2,700
drivers' licenses a day to drivers never before holding a Cali-
fornia license; and
   WHEBEAS, The number of automobile drivers in California
is increasing to an unprecedented number; and
   WHEREAS, The qualifications of renewal applicants differ
greatly, requiring varying amounts of time in examining for
renewal; and
   WHEREAS, Some may need only a screening check and others
a more thorough examination; and
   WHEREAS, Much may be accomplished in safety and economy
by varying the examination to fit the need; and
3844               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Cll. 2 0 4

   WHEREAS, Section 12814 of the Vehicle Code grants to the
Department of Motor Vehicles discretion with respect to re-
quiring applicants for the renewal of drivers' licenses to take
the examination required for original applications for drivers'
licenses; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Director of Motor Vehicles
is hereby requested by the Legislature to conduct a pilot study
of methods of screening applicants for renewal of licenses by
limiting examinations for renewal to the vision tests only in
order to test the effect on economy and on driving records of
such methods but the subjects of the study shall be limited in
number to not more than 1 percent of the California drivers
per year; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Director of Motor Vehicles is requested
to submit a progress report to the Legislature on or before
April 1, 1970, and to submit a final report of its findings and
recommendations to the Legislature on or before the fifth legis-
lative day of the 1971 Regular Session of the Legislature; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Motor Vehicles.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 204
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 70—Relative to processing
  with dispatch Cal-Vet disaster indemnity benefit applica-
  tions.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 16, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Legislature of the State of California en-
acted in 1956, Article 3.7 (commencing with Section 989) of
Chapter 6 of Division 4 of the Military and Veterans Code to
authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs to indemnify
purchasers under the Cal-Vet farm and home purchase pro-
gram for costs of repairing uninsured damage to property
caused by water or earthquakes and appropriated, without
regard to fiscal years, the sum of $1,000,000 for such purposes;
and
  WHEREAS, Approximately $400,000 of this appropriated sum
remains unexpended and uncommitted; and
  WHEREAS, Many Cal-Vet properties have been damaged or
destroyed by the recent storms and floods and the owners of
such properties are submitting applications for such Cal-Vet
disaster indemnity benefits; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs to process with dispatch all
applications submitted by Cal-Vet home and farm owners for
disaster indemnity benefits; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Veterans Affairs.
Res   Ch. 2061           1969   R E
                                      G U L A R SESSION           3845

                   EESOLUTION C H A P T E R 205
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 199—Relative to pro-
  claiming the week of June 22-28 as Indoor Sports Club
  Week.
                 [Filed with Secretary of State June 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Indoor Sports Club, Inc., an international
nonprofit organization for the physically disabled, was founded
in 1930 for the purpose of proving that the physically handi-
capped, through association, can achieve happiness and a full
and useful life, even after seemingly insurmountable tragedy
has struck; and
   WHEREAS, The membership of the club is composed entirely
of persons who have been seriously disabled due to such causes
as illness, accident, and war injury who have come together to
help themselves to lead productive and full lives and to demon-
strate to the public that the disabled can, if given a fair
chance, compete with others toward a goal of economic self-
sufficiency; and
   WHEREAS, The club actively encourages disabled persons to
become gainfully employed citizens, taking part in all phases
of community life, and its members have volunteered their
services over the years to many community activities; and
   WHEREAS, The club has sought and supported enactment of
legislation in California to provide opportunities for the handi-
capped to achieve gainful employment and to provide aid and
rehabilitation for the unemployable handicapped; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
 Indoor Sports Club, Inc., for its notable achievements in aid
of the seriously disabled; and be it further
   Resolved, That the members request the Governor to pro-
claim the week of June 22-28, 1969, as Indoor Sports Club
Week in recognition of the club's many accomplishments; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably pre-
pared copy of this resolution to the Indoor Sports Club, Inc.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 206
             Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 114—
               Relative to Apartment Living Week.
                 [Piled with Secretary of State June 19, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The rapid development of multiple family dwell-
ing in California and the nation, attests to their popularity in
filling the need for carefree urban housing; and
3846                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ReS. Cll. 2 0 7

   "WHEKBAS, The California Apartment Association was orga-
nized January 1, 1941, to promote the welfare of the rental
housing industry in California; and
   WHEREAS, The objectives of the association are to create,
maintain, and develop cooperation among the owners and man-
agers of apartment houses and other multiple family residence
buildings and to facilitate interchange of ideas in the concep-
tion, construction, management, operation and maintenance of
apartment houses and apartment-hotel buildings; and
   WHEREAS, The members of the California Apartment Asso-
ciation are dedicated to the precept of free enterprise and
aspire to democratic representation for all participants in one
of the largest industries in the United States; and
   WHEREAS, The members of the California Apartment Asso-
ciation are dedicated to the fundamental rights of private
ownership with its accompanying responsibilities and freedom
of decision; and
  WHEREAS, The California Apartment Association will hold its
annual conferences at the Edgewater-Hyatt Hotel in Long
Beach during the week of September 29th through October 4,
1969; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of September 29th through October
4th as "Apartment Living Week"; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared copy
of the resolution to the President of the California Apartment
Association.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 207
    Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 125—Relative to the
            Diamond Jubilee of motion pictures.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The motion picture, an indigenous American art
form, has transformed the lives of hundreds of millions of
people through education and entertainment; and
   WHEREAS, In addition to entertaining and enlightening the
people of the world, the motion picture industry supports and
employs hundreds of thousands of persons throughout the
world and particularly in California, the motion picture cap-
ital of the world; and
   WHEREAS, Motion pictures are a global medium which calls
upon the talent and peaceful cooperation of many nation-
alities; and
   WHEREAS, American motion pictures have an occupancy of
more than 50 percent of the total time on the screens of the
world's theaters which means that on an average day ten
million three hundred thousand individuals in foreign countries
see a film released by an American company, a figure that adds
                         1969
Res. Ch. 208]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3847

 up to seventy-two million admissions weekly and three billion
 seven hundred million annually—no other American medium
 regularly reaches such massive numbers of persons in foreign
 countries; and
   "WHEREAS, American motion pictures are a direct link for
millions abroad with the United States, its history and charac-
ter, its spirit and its ideals, through American film stars who
 are household names and who are themselves ambassadors with
whom millions abroad can identify with American life; and
   WHEREAS, American motion pictures are a business engaged
in an art which contributes each year a large surplus balance
of payments that is of urgent importance to our country's
economic and fiscal health; and
   "WHEREAS, 1969 is the 75th anniversary of the birth of
motion pictures and a most fitting time to honor the industry
for its contribution to the cultural and economic betterment;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the members request the
Governor to proclaim 1969 as the Diamond Jubilee Year of the
motion picture; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Governor, the Hollywood A. F . of L.
Film Council, the Association of Motion Picture and Television
Producers, Inc., and the Screen Actors Guild.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 208
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 127—Approving          amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of San Rafael, County of
  Marin, State of California, ratified by the qualified electors
  of the city at a regular municipal election held therein on
  the 15th day of April, 1969.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of amendments to the Charter
of the City of San Rafael, a municipal corporation in the
County of Marin, State of California, as hereinafter set forth
in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city, as
follows:
   CERTIFICATE OP RATIFICATION OF CHARTER AMENDMENTS
         BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF SAN RAFAEL

State of California 1
County of Marin     J- ss.
City of San Rafael J
  We, the undersigned, C. Paul Bettini, Mayor of the City of
San Rafael, and W. Clifford Cornwell, City Clerk of said City,
do hereby certify and declare as follows:
 3848               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 208

     That the City of San Eaf ael, a Municipal corporation in the
  County of Marin, State of California, is now and at all times
  herein mentioned was a city duly organized, existing and act-
  ing under a freeholders Charter adopted under and pursuant
  to Section 8 of Article XI of the Constitution of the State of
  California, with a population of more than 3,500 and less than
  50,000 inhabitants.
     That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
  Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
  City Council of said City, being the legislative body thereof, on
  its own motion, submitted to the qualified electors of said City,
 certain proposals for the amendment of the Charter of said
  City at a general municipal election duly and regularly called
  and held in said City on the 15th day of April, 1969, said
 Charter Amendments being hereinafter set forth in full.
     That on the 28th day of February, 1969, said City Council
 caused said Charter Amendments to be duly and regularly pub-
 lished and adverlised in each and every edition of said 28th day
 of February, 1969, in the Independent Journal, the official
 newspaper of said Ci1y, printed, published and circulated in
 said City.
     That said general municipal election was duly and regularly
 held in said City on the date fixed by said Council, to-wit, April
 15, 1969, which date was not less than forty (40) and not more
 than sixty (60) days after completion of the advertising of said
 proposed Charter Amendments, and the returns of said general
municipal election were duly and regularly canvassed and the
results declared and entered, namely, that at said election a
majority of the qualified voters voting thereon voted in favor
and did ratify the Charter Amendments herein specifically set
forth.
    That said amendments to the Charter of said City so ratified
by the voters of said City are as follows, to-wit:

              San Rafael Charter Amendment #1
   Section 1 of Article VI was amended to read as follows:
   "Section 1. Elective Officers. The elective officers of the
City of San Rafael shall be: A Mayor, four Councilmen, five
members of the Board of Education, a City Clerk, a City At-
torney, a Chief of Police, a City Treasurer, a City Assessor, a
City Tax and License Collector."
              San Rafael Charter Amendment #2
   Section 2 of Article VI was amended to read as follows:
   "Section 2. The Election and Term of Office of Mayor.
The Mayor shall be elected at the general municipal election
and shall be elected for a term of four years from and after
the seventh day succeeding the day of such election and until
his successor is elected or appointed and qualified."
                     1969
Kes. Ch. 209]               REGULAR SESSION                   3849

                San Rafael Charter Amendment #3
   Section 11 of Article VI was amended to read as follows:
   "Section 11. Appointive Officers. The Council shall ap-
point a city engineer, a superintendent of streets, a health
officer, who shall be a duly licensed physician in accordance
with the laws of the State of California, a chief of the fire de-
partment, who shall be ex-officio fire marshal, and a pound-
master, each of whom shall hold office for the period of four
years. The council may consolidate the offices of city engineer
and superintendent of streets. All such appointive officers may
be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of three mem-
bers of the Council.''
   That we have compared the amendments as stated herein
with the original proposals submitted to the electors of said
City, and find and certify that said amendments are a full,
true and correct copy thereof.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of San Rafael to be affixed hereto
this 19th day of May, 1969.
                               C. PAUL BETTINT
  (SEAL)                       Mayor—City of San Eafael
                               W . C. COENWELL
                               City Clerk—City of San Rafael
and
   WHEREAS, The proposed amendments to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, have been and
now are duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendments to the Charter of the City of San Rafael,
County of Marin, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by,
the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth, are
hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment,
for and as amendments to, and as part of, the Charter of the
City of San Rafael, County of Marin.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 209
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 130—Relative to
             commending Walter Winston Woods.
             [Piled with Secretary of State June 19, 1969.]

 WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature have learned that
Walter "Winston "Woods, a veteran of almost 30 years as a
 3850               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                    [Res. Ch. 210

 peace officer, will retire from his assignment as sergeant-in-
 eharge of the Twentynine Palms Resident Post of the Califor-
 nia Highway Patrol on June 30, 1969; and
    WHEREAS, Sergeant Woods began his career, after attending
 high schools and college in Santa Monica, in 1939 as a police
 officer in Santa Monica; and
    WHEREAS, In 1941 he joined the California Highway Patrol
 and served at posts in San Luis Obispo County and San Diego
 County; and
    WHEREAS, He has been very active in a wide variety of com-
munity services, including President of the Twentynine Palms
 Coaches Association, a director of the Twentynine Palms
 Chamber of Commerce for four years, President of the Associ-
ated Chambers of the High Desert, President of the Youth
Advisory Council, Chairman of the Advisory Board of the
Park and Recreation District, and member of the Rotary
 Club; and
   WHEREAS, He was elected to the board of directors of the
California Association of Highway Patrolmen in 1965 and now
has the distinction of serving as its president and legislative
representative in Sacramento; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members heartily commend
Walter Winston Woods for his outstanding service to the Leg-
islature and to his community; and be it farther
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Walter Winston
Woods.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 210
          Assembly Joint Resolution No. 38—Relative
                   to high cost of housing.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Home production in California is preponderantly
of wood frame construction, to a far greater degree than any
other state in the nation; and
   WHEREAS, In recent months the supply of softwoods and
plywood has become critically short and the price of these
woods unusually high; and
   WHEREAS, Committees of the Congress are currently under-
taking hearings on the national lumber supply problem; and
   WHEREAS, S. 1832, and other measures, titled The National
Timber Supply Act of 1969, have been introduced into the
Congress of the United States of America to provide both
shortrun and longrun solutions to the problem of supply of
softwood timber for lumber and plywood; and
  WHEREAS, High lumber costs, coupled with continued in-
creases in interest rates, labor costs and land prices, are vir-
                         1969
Res. Ch. 211]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3851

tually removing decent housing from the reach of low- and
moderate-income families at a time when national housing
goals require a substantial increase in new housing units; and
   WHEREAS, President Eichard Nixon has recently acted to
ease price pressures on lumber and plywood by restraining
governmental purchasing of this commodity and ordering an
increase in timber harvest on federal lands consistent with good
conservation; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature respectfully memorializes
the President and the Congress of the United States to study
this problem and take whatever actions are necessary to alle-
viate this serious problem, because of the extreme hardship
and consequences it has upon the home buyers of this state;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives, and to each Senator and Representative from California
in the Congress of the United States.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 211
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 188—Relating to
                     Printers' Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 19, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, Printing opens the storehouse of knowledge and
has contributed to progress since the invention of movable
type by Gutenberg in 1440, and has spread culture, knowledge,
science and learning throughout the world; and
   WHEREAS, Printing brings to us the wisdom and experience
of past generations, the printed word providing continuity to
life as it reveals past ages to the present, and extends a hand
to future generations who will learn about us through printed
words, pictures and graphics; and
   WHEREAS, The first printing press in California was an
ancient Ramage press in Monterey, made in Boston about 1720,
which first printed circulars, handbills, and Mexican officials'
proclamations, and was the press which printed the first news-
paper on the Pacific Coast, " T h e Californian," edited by
Walter Colton, the first edition being dated August 15, 1846;
and
   WHEREAS, The art of printing, the presses to fill the needs
of the growing state during the Gold Rush, the trained
printers and editors, and the entire complex of the printing
industry, grew apace with the population since that time, until
California is now the home of thousands of printers of every
kind from small job shops, to fine limited-edition books, to city
blocks of newspaper plants; and
3852                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [Res. Ch. 212

    WHEREAS, The International Association of Printing House
Craftsmen, with 1,500 California members, observes Printing
Week in January because Benjamin Franklin, the "patron
s a i n t " of the craft of printing, whose wit, wisdom and truth
still clearly speak to us across generations, was born on
January 17, 1706; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim January 11 to 17, 1970, as Printers' Week
in California, and urge all Californians to observe this occasion
by recognizing the importance of printing in their lives; and
be it further
    Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 212
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 16—Relative to the
               California Law Revision Commission.
              [Filed with Secretary of State June 23, 19 69.]

   WHEEEAS, Section 10335 of the Government Code pro-
vides that the California Law Revision Commission shall file
a report at each regular session of the Legislature which shall
contain a calendar of topics selected by it for study, in-
 cluding a list of the studies in progress; and
   WHEREAS, The commission in its annual report covering its
activities for 1988 lists the following topics, all of which the
 Legislature has previously authorized or directed the com-
mission to study, as studies in progress:
Topics Under Active Consideration:
    (1) Whether the law and procedure relating to condemna-
tion should be revised with a view to recommending a com-
prehensive statute that will safeguard the rights of all parties
to such proceedings;
   (2) Whether the doctrine of sovereign or governmental im-
munity in California should be abolished or revised;
   (3) Whether the decisional, statutory, and constitutional
rules governing the liability of public entities for inverse
condemnation should be revised, including but not limited to
the liability for inverse condemnation resulting from flood
control projects;
   (4) Whether the Evidence Code should be revised;
   (5) Whether the law relating to the use of fictitious names
should be revised;
   (6) Whether Civil Code Section 1698 should be repealed or
revised;
   (7) Whether Section 1974 of the Code of Civil Procedure
should be repealed or revised;
                     1969
Kes. Ch. 2121               REGULAR SESSION                  3853

 Topics Continued on Calendar for Further Study:
     (1) Whether an award of damages made to a married
 person in a personal injury action should be the separate
 property of such married person;
     (2) Whether the law relating to the doctrine of mutuality
 of remedy in suits for specific performance should be revised;
     (3) Whether Vehicle Code Section 17150 and related
 statutes should be revised;
     (4) Whether the law relating to the rights of a good faith
 improver of property belonging to another should be revised;
     (5) Whether the law relating to suit by and against part-
 nerships and other unincorporated associations should be re-
 vised and whether the law relating to the liability of such
 associations and their members should be revised;
     (6) Whether the law relating to the escheat of property
 and the disposition of unclaimed or abandoned property
 should be revised;
    (7) Whether the j u r y should be authorized to take a written
copy of the court's instructions into the jury room in civil as
well as criminal cases;
    (8) Whether the law relating to quasi-community property
and property described in Section 201.5 of the Probate Code
should be revised;
    (9) Whether the law relating to a power of appointment
should be revised;
    (10) Whether the law relating to the rights and duties
attendant upon termination or abandonment of a lease should
be revised;
    (11) Whether the law relating to additur and remittitur
should be revised;
Other Topics Authorized for Study:
    (1) Whether the law respecting jurisdiction of courts in
proceedings affecting the custody of children should be re-
vised ;
    (2) Whether the law relating to attachment, garnishment,
and property exempt from execution should be revised;
    (3) Whether the various sections of the Code of Civil Pro-
cedure relating to partition should be revised and whether
the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure relating to the
confirmation of partition sales and the provisions of the Pro-
bate Code relating to the confirmation of sales of real
property of estates of deceased persons should be made uni-
form and, if not, whether there is need for clarification as to
which of them governs confirmation of private judicial par-
tition sales;
    (4) Whether the Small Claims Court Law should be re-
vised ;
    (5) Whether the law relating to arbitration should be re-
vised ;
   (6) Whether California statutes relating to service of proc-
ess by publication should be revised in light of recent deci-
sions of the United States Supreme Court; and
 3854              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [BeS. C h . 2 1 3

   WHEREAS, The commission in its annual report covering its
activities for 1968 has recommended that the following topic,
previously approved for study, be removed from its agenda:
   Whether Section 7031 of the Business and Professions Code,
which precludes an unlicensed contractor from bringing an
action to recover for work done, should be revised; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature approves
the topics listed above as studies in progress for continued
study by the California Law Revision Commission and ap-
proves the removal from the commission's agenda of the topic
listed above that the commission has recommended be removed
from its agenda.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 213
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 201—Approving           three
  certain amendments to the Charter of the City of Los An-
  geles, a municipal corporation, in the County of Los Angeles,
  State of California, voted for and ratified by the electors of
  said city at a general municipal election held therein on the
  27th day of May 1969.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 24, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the
adoption and ratification of three amendments, hereinafter set
forth, to the Charter of the City of Los Angeles, a municipal
corporation, in the County of Los Angeles, State of California,
as set out in the certificate of the President pro Tempore of
the Council of the City of Los Angeles and the city clerk of
said city, as follows:

     CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER OF THE
              CITY OF LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA

State of California  "1
County of Los Angeles 1-ss.
City of Los Angeles   J

   We, John S. Gibson, Jr., President Pro Tempore of the
 Council of the City of Los Angeles, and Rex E. Layton, City
Clerk of the City of Los Angeles, do hereby certify and declare
as follows:
   That said, City of Los Angeles, in the County of Los An-
geles, in the State of California, is now, and was at all times
herein mentioned: (a) a city containing a population of more
than two million one hundred thousand inhabitants as ascer-
tained by the last preceding census taken under the authority
of the Congress of the United States; (b) a city organized and
                     1969
 Res. Ch. 2131              REGULAR SESSION                   3855

 existing under a freeholders' charter, adopted under the pro-
 visions of Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of the
  State of California, which charter was heretofore duly ratified
 by a majority of the electors of said city at a special election
 held for that purpose on the 6th day of May 1924, and ap-
 proved by the Legislature of the State of California by con-
 current resolution filed with the Secretary of State on the 26th
 day of January 1925 (Senate Concurrent Eesolution No. 2,
 Chapter No. 5, Statutes 1925, P . 1024).
    That in accordance with the provisions of Article X I , Sec-
 tion 8 of the Constitution of the State of California, the
 Council of the City of Los Angeles, being the legislative body
 of said city, on its own motion, duly and regularly submitted
 to the qualified electors of the City of Los Angeles certain
 proposals for the amendment of the Charter of said city to be
voted upon by said qualified electors at a certain general
municipal election held on the 27th day of May 1969, all as
required by law, which said proposals were designated as pro-
posed charter amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively.
    That on the 11th day of April 1969, the said proposed
amendments were published and advertised in accordance with
Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution, in each and every
edition of said day of April 11, 1969, in " T h e Los Angeles
Daily J o u r n a l , " a daily newspaper of general circulation
printed and circulated in said city, and being the official
newspaper for said purpose; all as shown by the affidavit of
publication on file in the office of the City Clerk of said city.
   That copies of said proposed charter amendments were
printed in convenient pamphlet form in type of ten-point, and
were mailed to each of the qualified electors of said city; and
copies thereof could be had upon application therefor at the
office of the City Clerk on and from April 11, 1969, to and
including May 27, 1969; and a notice was advertised and pub-
lished on and from April 11, 1969, to and including May 27,
1969, in " T h e Los Angeles Daily J o u r n a l , " a newspaper of
general circulation in said city, that copies thereof might be
had at the office of the City Clerk of said city upon application
therefor.
   Such proposed charter amendments were submitted to the
electors of said city for adoption and ratification at a general
municipal election held on May 27, 1969, which was not less
than forty, nor more than sixty, days after completion of the
advertising in the official paper of the proposed charter amend-
ments aforesaid.
   At said election a majority of the qualified electors voting
upon each of the proposed charter amendments voted in
favor of said proposed charter amendments 1, 2 and 4 and
adopted and ratified the same, as appears by the official can-
vass of the returns thereof by the City Clerk of the City of
Los Angeles, heretofore certified by him to the Council of said
city, and the declaration of the Council of said City of Los
3856              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 213

Angeles, which pursuant to law met on June 9, 1969, at its
usual time and place of meeting, and duly declared the result
of said canvass of the returns of said election, as certified by
the said City Clerk.
  That the said amendments to the Charter of the City of
Los Angeles, so adopted and ratified by the qualified electors
of said city, and which shall be submitted to the Legislature
for approval or rejection, are in words and figures as follows:

             PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT NO. 1

  The charter of the City of Los Angeles is hereby amended
by amending Article V I I I thereof to read as follows:

                         Article V I I I
                         City Planning
Sec. 94. Department of City Planning
   The Department of City Planning shall have and exercise
all the powers and duties which are provided in this Charter,
and, in addition thereto, such other powers and duties, in-
cluding those granted to or imposed upon City Planning
Commissions or Departments by State law, as are provided
by ordinance.
Sec. 95. Director of Planning
   (1) The general manager of the Department of City Plan-
ning shall be known as the Director of Planning. He shall be
chosen on the basis of his administrative and technical quali-
fications, with special reference to his actual experience in and
his knowledge of accepted practice in the field of city planning.
   (2) The Director of Planning shall have the following pow-
ers and duties, subject to supervision and direction by the City
Planning Commission as to matters of policy:
   (a) With the advice of the General Plan Advisory Board,
he shall prepare the proposed General Plan of the City and
from time to time prepare proposed extensions and modifica-
tions thereof; and he shall prepare all maps, diagrams, charts
and reports which may be necessary or advisable in the making
of said General Plan.
   (b) Subject to the approval of the City Planning Commis-
sion, he shall prepare all proposed zoning regulations and
requirements, including the necessary districts or zones in
connection therewith, and he shall prepare all maps, charts
and diagrams which may be necessary or advisable in the
making of such zoning regulations.
   (e) He shall make investigations and report on the design
and improvement of all proposed subdivisions of land.
   (d) He shall have such additional powers and duties as
set forth elsewhere in this Charter or as may be imposed
upon him by ordinance.
                    1969
Bes. Ch. 213]              REGULAR SESSION                  3857

 Sec. 95.5. General Plan Advisory Board
    There is hereby created a General Plan Advisory Board
 to advise and assist the Director of Planning in the prepara-
 tion of the General Plan and of amendments thereto and to
 perform such other functions as may be provided by ordi-
nance. The membership of, the procedure for the conduct of
business before, and other matters relating to such board shall
be prescribed by ordinance.
 Sec. 96. City Planning Commission
    The Board of City Planning Commissioners shall be known
as the City Planning Commission. It shall advise and recom-
mend to the Mayor, City Council, Director of Planning, mu-
nicipal departments and agencies with respect to city planning
and related activities and legislation. On matters of policy, it
shall direct and supervise the Director of Planning in the
execution of his various powers and duties. I t shall perform
such other functions as are set forth elsewhere in this Charter
or as specified by ordinance.
Sec. 96.5. General Plan
    The General Plan shall be a comprehensive declaration of
purposes, policies and programs for the development of the
City, and shall include, where applicable, diagrams, maps and
text setting forth objectives, principles, standards and other
features.
    (1) Purpose. The General Plan shall serve as a basic
and continuous reference in (a) planning for the development
of the City, (b) developing, correlating and coordinating
official regulations, controls, programs and services, and (c)
attaining coordination of planning and administration by all
agencies of the city government, other governmental bodies
and private organizations and individiials involved in the
development of the City.
    (2) Content. The General Plan shall include the follow-
ing elements:
    (a) A land use element which designates the proposed
general distribution, location and extent of the uses of land,
and includes a statement of the standards of population
density and building intensity for the various areas covered
by the General Plan.
    (b) A circulation element indicating the general location
and characteristics of existing and proposed freeways, major
thoroughfares, transportation routes, terminals, and other
facilities and features all correlated with the land use element
of the General Plan.
    (c) A service-systems element indicating the location and
characteristics of service-systems supplying the city with utili-
ties and services.
   The General Plan may include other elements, including
those enumerated by State law, when approved by the City
Council after first considering the recommendations of the
City Planning Commission thereon. If the City Council is
3858              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA          [Res. Ch. 213

considering the inclusion of an element upon which the City
Planning Commission has not made a recommendation, the
matter must be referred to the Commission for such purpose.
 If the Commission fails to make its recommendations -within
30 days after the request therefor by the Council, the Council
may take action without such recommendations.
    (3) Procedure. The Director of Planning, with the advice
of the City Planning Commission and the General Plan Ad-
visory Board, shall prepare in the manner prescribed by this
 Charter and by ordinance, and the Commission shall approve
and the Council shall adopt by resolution, a comprehensive
 General Plan for the development of the City and of any land
outside the boundaries of the City which bears relation to its
planning.
   Proceedings pertaining to the preparation, consideration,
hearings, time limits, approval and adoption of the General
Plan, or any of its parts or amendments thereto, shall be as
provided by ordinance, subject to the following limitations:
    (a) The General Plan shall be so prepared that the City
Planning Commission may approve and the Council may
adopt it as follows: as a whole; by complete subject elements;
by substantial geographical areas; or by portions of subject
elements, provided that any such area or portion has signifi-
cant social, economic or physical identity.
    (b) After such notice, if any, as may be required by ordi-
nance and public hearing by the City Planning Commission,
and upon its approval of said General Plan or any part thereof
or amendment thereto, the same shall be presented to the
Mayor and the Council by the Director of Planning.
    (c) After receipt of the General Plan or any part thereof
or amendment thereto as approved by the City Planning Com-
mission, and upon receipt of the recommendations by the
Mayor relative thereto or the expiration of 30 days, which-
ever first occurs, the Council shall conduct a public hearing
before acting thereon, and thereafter may adopt such plan,
or part thereof or amendments thereto, provided that any
such part or amendment conforms to the limitations set forth
in Subdivision (3) (a) hereof.
   (d) If the Council proposes any change from that which
has been approved by the City Planning Commission, such
proposed change must be referred to the Director of Planning,
the City Planning Commission and the Mayor for recommen-
dation. The Commission and the Mayor must act thereon
within a period determined by ordinance. Failure to act
within such time shall be deemed to be an approval.
   (e) Upon conclusion of its public hearing if no changes are
proposed by the Council or after receipt of the Mayor's and
City Planning Commission's recommendations on any proposed
change, or the expiration of their time to act thereon, final
action by the Council shall be taken within a period determined
by ordinance.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 213]               REGULAR SESSION                 3859

    (f) Adoption of the General Plan or any part thereof or
 amendment thereto shall be by majority vote of the entire
 Council if not contrary to the recommendations of either the
 City Planning Commission or the Mayor. A two-thirds vote
 shall be required if contrary to the recommendations of either
the City Planning Commission or the Mayor, and a three-
 fourths vote shall be required if action of the Council is con-
trary to the recommendations of both the City Planning Com-
mission and the Mayor.
    (4) Implementation. The City Planning Commission shall
make such reports and recommendations to the Council and to
other governmental officers or agencies as may be necessary to
secure adherence to and systematic implementation of the Gen-
eral Plan, and may publish and distribute reports relating
thereto. A copy of all adopted portions of the General Plan
shall be available for inspection in the main and each branch
office of the Department of City Planning.
    (5) Compliance. "When acting upon a specific plan or any
other matter enumerated in Sections 97.1 through 97.7 of this
Charter, the City Planning Commission and the Council shall
make findings showing that the action is in substantial con-
formance with the purposes, intent and provisions of the Gen-
eral Plan or their reasons for not conforming therewith. If the
Council does not adopt the Commission's findings and recom-
mendations, the Council shall make its own findings.
Sec. 96.6. General Plan Areas
   For the purpose of reviewing or amending the General Plan,
the City Planning Commission at the earliest feasible date shall
make its recommendations to the Council relative to the divi-
sion of the entire city into areas and a schedule for the consid-
eration of such areas and the Council, after considering the
recommendations of the Commission, shall adopt an ordinance
providing therefor. Thereafter any review of or proposal for
the amendment of the General Plan with respect to a particu-
lar area shall be considered only during the period scheduled
for that area unless the City Planning Commission or Council
determines there are special circumstances affecting the public
interest as such may be defined by ordinance which necessitate
a deviation therefrom. Any review of or proposal for the
amendment of the General Plan involving city-wide application
need not be considered on any area by area basis.
See. 97.1. Specific Plans
   A specific plan is a definite statement of policies, standards
and regulations together with a map or description defining
the locations where such policies, standards and regulations are
applicable.
   (1) Purpose. The purpose of a specific plan shall be to pro-
vide by ordinance regulatory controls or incentives for the
systematic execution of the General Plan and to provide for
public needs, convenience and general welfare.
3860               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [ R e s . Cll. 2 1 3

   (2) Content. Such specific plans may include:
   (a) Zoning. Regulations of the use of land and buildings,
the height and bulk of buildings, and the open spaces about
buildings.
   (b) Public Projects. Regulations concerning the location
of buildings and other improvements in relation to existing
or planned rights-of-way or other types of public projects.
   (c) Such other measures as may be required to insure the
execution of the General Plan.
   (3) Procedure. The Council may, by ordinance, provide
regulations consistent with the provisions of this Charter for
the preparation, consideration, hearings, time limits, approval
 and adoption of specific plans and amendments thereto.
 Sec. 97.2. Specific Plans—Zoning
   (1) No ordinance, order or resolution shall be adopted by
the Council effectuating (i) the creation or change of any
zones or districts for the purpose of regulating the use of land,
density of population, the height, bulk, location, or use of
buildings or structures or the size of yards, open spaces or set-
backs adjacent to buildings or structures therein, or (ii) the
authorization of location of uses of land and regulations ap-
plicable thereto which may be designated in the zoning ordi-
nance as unclassifiable according to zones or districts, or (iii)
the establishment, change or repeal of regulations applying
within any of said zones, districts, yards, open spaces, or set-
backs unless it shall have first been submitted to the City
Planning Commission for report and recommendation concern-
ing the following:
   (a) Its relation to and effect upon the General Plan, specific
plans, and any plans being prepared by the Department of
 City Planning, and
   (b) Whether its adoption will be in conformity with public
necessity, convenience, general welfare and good zoning prac-
tice.
   (2) Proceedings for the creation or change of any of said
zones or districts, or the authorization of an unclassifiable use,
or the establishment, change or repeal of any regulations ap-
plying thereto, may be initiated by the filing of an application
with the City Planning Commission as provided for by ordi-
nance, or by the Council or the City Planning Commission.
   (3) When a proceeding involving any of the matters men-
tioned in Subsection (1) hereof is initiated by the Council, it
shall be the duty of the City Planning Commission to make
and file its report and recommendations thereon with the
Council within the time prescribed by ordinance. Should the
Commission recommend approval of the matter in whole or in
part, an ordinance, order or resolution conforming to the
Commission recommendation may be adopted by a majority
vote of the whole Council. Should the Commission recommend
against approval thereof, the Council may adopt an ordinance,
order or resolution effectuating the same only upon a two-thirds
                    1969
Res. Ch. 213]              REGULAR SESSION                 3861

vote of the whole Council. Should the Commission fail to make
any recommendations within the time specified by ordinance,
an ordinance, order or resolution in conformity with that which
was initiated by the Council shall be prepared and presented
to the Council which may adopt same by majority vote of the
whole Council.
   (4) When an application involving any of the preceedings
mentioned in Subsection (1) hereof is filed with the City
Planning Commission, it shall be the duty of the Commission
to act thereon within the time prescribed by ordinance. Should
the Commission recommend approval of the matter involved in
whole or in part, its recommendation shall be presented to the
Council. Should the Commission fail to act within the time
prescribed by ordinance, an ordinance, order or resolution
conforming to that requested in the application shall be pre-
pared and presented to the Council. Any ordinance, order or
resolution conforming with the Commission recommendation
or involving a matter upon which the Commission failed to act
within the prescribed time may be adopted by a majority vote
of the whole Council. Should the Commission recommend
against the approval thereof in whole or in part, its action
thereon shall be final except that an appeal may be taken to
the Council within the time and in a manner prescribed by
ordinance. The Council shall review the action of the Com-
mission appealed from and may adopt an ordinance, order or
resolution contrary to the recommendation of the Commission
in whole or in part only upon a two-thirds vote of the whole
Council.
Sec. 97.3. Specific Plans—Building Lines
   (1) No ordinance, order or resolution shall be adopted by
the Council regulating the setback of buildings or of other
improvements adjacent to a street or highway unless it shall
have first been submitted to the City Planning Commission
for its report and recommendation concerning its relation to
and effect upon the General Plan, the applicable zoning regu-
lations, and any other specific plans and any plans being pre-
pared by the Department of City Planning, and its conformity
with public necessity, convenience and general welfare.
   (2) Procedings for the establishment, change or repeal of
any such building line regulations shall be subject to the same
limitations set forth in Subsections (2), (3) and (4) of Section
 97.2 of this Charter.
 Sec. 97.4. Specific Plans—Public Projects
    (1) Purpose. Specific plans for public projects may be
 adopted in order to give notice of and establish regulations
pertaining to land area required for physical public improve-
ments such as streets, parks, public buildings or other func-
tional public features.
    (2) Content. A specific plan for a public project shall in-
clude a map, with or without descriptive text, showing the
location, required land area, and dimensions of a proposed
3862               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [Res. Ch. 213

 public project, and may include regulations pertaining to the
 location of buildings or other improvements both within and
 adjacent to the land area required for the project.
     (3) Procedure. When deemed appropriate by the Director
 of Planning and either the City Engineer or the head of any
 other department or bureau whose duties are reasonably related
 to a particular project, they shall prepare in the manner pre-
 scribed by this Charter and by ordinance a specific plan relat-
 ing thereto. Such plan shall be submitted to the City Planning
  Commission, which shall approve or disapprove and transmit
 same together with its report and recommendations thereon to
 the Council. Adoption of any such plan shall be by ordinance.
 If the Council desires to amend such proposed plan, it must be
 returned to the Commission for report and recommendation. If
 the Commission approves such plan or amended plan or fails to
 act within such time as may be prescribed by ordinance, the
 Council may adopt same by majority vote of the whole Council.
 If the Commission disapproves such plan or amended plan, in
 whole or in part, the Council may adopt same only upon a two-
 thirds vote of the whole Council.
     The Council may, by ordinance, provide further regulations
 pertaining to the proceedings for the preparation, considera-
 tion, hearings, time limits, approval and adoption of such spe-
 cific plans, or amendments thereto.
 Sec. 97.6. Eeferrals—Public Uses
     (1) No ordinance, order or resolution shall be adopted by
 the Council authorizing, ordering or involving any of the fol-
 lowing enumerated matters unless such ordinance, order or
 resolution shall have first been submitted to the City Planning
 Commission for report and recommendation concerning the
 relation of the matter involved to and its effect upon the Gen-
 eral Plan, any applicable specific plans and any plans being
prepared by the Department of City Planning;
    (a) The acquisition, establishing, opening, widening, nar-
rowing, straightening, abandoning or vacating of any public
street, road, highway, alley, square, park, playground, air-
port, public building site, or other public way, ground or open
space, but not including easements for local sanitary sewers,
storm drains or slopes.
    (b) The location, appearance, and width of any bridge, via-
duct, subway, tunnel or elevated roadway for the use of pedes-
trian or vehicular traffic, or the location and appearance of
any public building.
    (2) Upon the receipt of any such proposed ordinance, order
or resolution, it shall be the duty of the City Planning Com-
mission to make and file its report and recommendations
thereon with the Council within the time prescribed by ordi-
nance. If the Commission recommends approval or fails to
make any recommendation within the prescribed time, the
Council may adopt such ordinance, order or resolution by ma-
jority vote of the whole Council. If the Commission reeom-
                     1989
Res. Ch. 213]               REGULAR SESSION                 3863

 mends against the approval thereof, the Council may adopt
  same only upon a two-thirds vote of the whole Council.
  Sec. 97.7. Referrals—Other Development Regulations
     (1) No ordinance, order or resolution shall be adopted by
 the Council involving any of the following matters unless it
 first shall have been submitted to the City Planning Commis-
 sion for report and recommendation concerning the relation-
 ship of the matter involved to and its effect upon the General
 Plan, specific plans, and any other plans and regulations ap-
 proved by the Commission or being prepared by the Depart-
 ment of City Planning:
     (a) Subdivision regulations.
     (b) Private street regulations.
     (c) Such other types of regulatory measures related to the
 General Plan or the development of the City as may be defined
 for this purpose by ordinance.
     (2) Upon the receipt of any such proposed ordinance, order
 or resolution, it shall be the duty of the City Planning Commis-
 sion to make and file its report and recommendations thereon
 with the Council within the time prescribed by ordinance. If
 the Commission recommends approval or fails to make any
 recommendation within the prescribed time, the Council may
 adopt such ordinance, order or resolution by majority vote of
 the whole Council. If the Commission recommends against the
 approval thereof, the Council may adopt same only upon a two-
 thirds vote of the whole Council.
 Sec. 97.8. Delegation of Authority
    The City Planning Commission may authorize the Direc-
tor of Planning to approve or disapprove for the Commission
any ordinance, order or resolution which is subject to the
provisions of Sections 97.1 through 97.7 of this Charter. In
 exercising any such authority, the Director must find that
his action conforms with all applicable portions of the Gen-
 eral Plan and with all applicable specific plans or with the
latest action of the Commission on the same matter. An ac-
tion of the Director under this authority shall be subject to
the same time limits and shall have the same effect as if the
Commission had acted directly thereon.
Sec. 97.9. Hearings and Investigations
    In complying with the provisions of Sections 97.1 through
97.7 of this Charter, the City Planning Commission shall hold
such hearing or hearings as it may determine or as may be
required by ordinance, or may direct an examiner to conduct
such hearings for it. The Director of Planning shall make such
investigations relative to all matters provided for in Sections
97.1 through 97.7 as the Commission may direct and shall file
his reports thereon with the Commission.
Sec. 98. Office of Zoning Administration
    (1) There is hereby created as a quasi-judicial agency the
Office of Zoning Administration. The functions and duties of
this office shall be performed by one or more Zoning Adminis-
3864              STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA          [ReS. Ch. 213

trators as authorized by the Council, who shall be appointed
by the Director of Planning subject to the civil service provi-
sions of this Charter. If more than one Zoning Administrator
is authorized, a position of Chief Zoning Administrator shall
be established, the appointment to which shall be made by the
Director of Planning, and such others shall be Associate Zon-
ing Administrators.
    (2) Subject to such rules and regulations as the Council
may prescribe by ordinance, the Chief Zoning Administrator
and Associate Zoning Administrators shall have the following
powers and duties:
    (a) To investigate and make a determination upon appeals
where it is alleged there is error or abuse of discretion in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Department of Building and Safety in the enforcement or
administration of the provisions of any ordinance creating
zoning districts or regulating the use of property in the city.
    (b) To investigate and make a determination upon all appli-
cations for variances from any of the regulations and require-
ments of the zoning ordinances. Before granting an application
for a variance a Zoning Administrator must find:
    (i) that the strict application of the provisions of of the
zoning ordinance would result in practical difficulties or un-
necessary hardships inconsistent with the general purpose and
 intent of the zoning regulations,
    (ii) that there are special circumstances applicable to the
subject property such as size, shape, topography, location or
surroundings that do not apply generally to other property in
the same zone and vicinity.
    (iii) that such variance is necessary for the preservation
 and enjoyment of a substantial property right or use generally
 possessed by other property in the same zone and vicinity but
which, because of such special circumstances and practical
 difficulties or unnecessary hardships is denied to the property
 in question,
    (iv) that the granting of such variance will not be mate-
 rially detrimental to the public welfare, or injurious to the
 property or improvements in the same zone or vicinity in
 which the property is located, and
    (v) that the granting of the variance will not adversely
 affect any element of the General Plan.
    In granting a variance a Zoning Administrator shall impose
 such conditions as will remedy disparity of privileges and
which are necessary to protect the public health, safety or
 welfare and assure compliance with the objectives of the Gen-
 eral Plan and the purpose and intent of the zoning ordinance.
 A variance shall not be used to grant a special privilege, nor
to permit a use substantially inconsistent with the limitations
 upon other properties in the same zone and vicinity, nor to
 grant relief from self-imposed hardships.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 213]              REGULAR SESSION                 3865

     (c) To determine pursuant to procedures and limitations
 provided in the zoning ordinance, the proper classification of
 those uses not specifically listed in such ordinance.
     (d) Under standards, limitations and procedures estab-
 lished by ordinance, to grant slight modifications in yard and
 area requirements of the zoning ordinance when circumstances
make the literal application of the yard and area requirements
 impractical.
    (3) Determinations by a Zoning Administrator shall be
 supported by written findings of fact based upon written and
oral statements and documents presented to him, including
photographs, maps and plans, together with the results of
his investigations except that no written findings shall be re-
quired for the granting of slight modifications in yard or area
requirements.
    A Zoning Administrator shall make determinations on any
matter under his jurisdiction as expeditiously as possible. The
Council shall by ordinance provide time limits within which
a Zoning Administrator must act for each type of case under
his jurisdiction. If no determination is made by a Zoning Ad-
ministrator within the prescribed time, the applicant may re-
quest that the matter be transferred to the jurisdiction of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
    Upon making a determination upon any matter under his
jurisdiction a Zoning Administrator shall forthwith place a
copy of his findings and determination on file in the Depart-
ment of City Planning and furnish a copy of the determina-
tion to the applicant and to the Department of Building and
Safety. Such determination shall be final, except that an appeal
may be taken as hereinafter provided. No determination by a
Zoning Administrator, other than the granting of a slight
modification in yard or area requirements, shall become ef-
fective until the expiration of an elapsed period after mailing
notice to the applicant, which period shall be specified by
ordinance. During this period an appeal from the determina-
tion may be taken to the Board of Zoning Appeals. An appeal
shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action ap-
pealed from pending its disposition.
    (4) The Office of Zoning Administration may adopt such
rules as it may deem necessary to carry out the rules and
regulations prescribed by ordinance and which are not in con-
flict or inconsistent therewith. All such rules and regulations
shall be available for inspection in the Office of Zoning Ad-
ministration.
Sec. 99. Board of Zoning Appeals
    (1) There is hereby created as a quasi-judicial body a
Board of Zoning Appeals consisting of five members who
shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to confirmation of
the Council. The terms of the members of said Board shall be
five years. One such term shall expire on June 30 of each
year. In case of any vacancy, other than one resulting from
3866              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA         [Res. Cll. 213

the expiration of a term, a successor shall be appointed for
the period of the unexpired term. The members of the Board
of Zoning Adjustment in office on the effective date of this
amendment shall continue in office as members of the Board
of Zoning Appeals for their then unexpired terms. Any pro-
vision of this Charter applicable to the Board of Zoning Ad-
justment after the effective date of this amendment shall
apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   Three members shall constitute a quorum of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, and the concurring vote of at least three
members shall be necessary in the determination of any mat-
ter.
   The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall receive
such compensation as the Council may from time to time fix
and determine by ordinance, and they shall be exempt from
the civil service provisions of this Charter.
   (2) The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have and exercise
only the following powers:
   (a) To hear and determine appeals where it is alleged
there is error or abuse of discretion in any order, require-
ment, decision, interpretation or other determination made
by a Zoning Administrator.
   (b) To hear and make determinations on any matter
normally under the jurisdiction of a Zoning Administrator
when such matter has been transferred to the jurisdiction of
the Board pursuant to a request for transfer because a Zon-
ing Administrator has failed to act within the time limits
prescribed by ordinance.
   (c) To hear and determine such other appeals as may be
delegated to it by ordinance.
   (3) Appeals from an action by a Zoning Administrator
may be taken to the Board of Zoning Appeals by an applicant,
any person aggrieved, or by any officer, board, department or
bureau of the City. Such appeal shall set forth in writing
wherein the appellant believes there was error or abuse of
discretion on the part of the Zoning Administrator.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, when considering an appeal
from an action by a Zoning Administrator, shall base its
determination only upon (a) evidence introduced at the hear-
ing, or hearings, if any, before the Zoning Administrator, on
the issue, (b) the record, findings and determination of the
Zoning Administrator, and (c) the consideration of arguments,
if any, presented to the Board orally or in writing. If an ap-
plicant or aggrieved person wishes to offer into the proceed-
ings any new evidence in connection with the matter, a written
summary of such evidence together with a statement as to why
such evidence could not reasonably have been presented to the
Zoning Administrator shall be filed with the Board. If the
Board determines that such evidence could not reasonably
have been presented to the Zoning Administrator and is of
such a nature as might reasonably have led to a different
                    19S9
Ees. Ch. 213]              REGULAR SESSION                 3867

determination by the Zoning Administrator, the Board shall
remand the matter to the Zoning Administrator who shall re-
open the matter only for the receipt of evidence summarized
to the Board together with evidence from other parties rela-
tive thereto and, within such time as shall be prescribed by
ordinance, make a new order, requirement, decision, inter-
pretation or other determination in the matter. I n considering
appeals, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be subject to the
same limitations as are placed upon the Zoning Administra-
tors by this Charter and by ordinance.
   The Board may modify or reverse a determination of a Zon-
ing Administrator only upon making written findings setting
forth specifically wherein the determination of the Zoning
Administrator was in error or constituted an abuse of discre-
tion, and shall make specific written findings supporting any
modification or reversal.
   A determination by the Board of Zoning Appeals granting
or affirming the grant of land use variances shall not become
effective until the expiration of such a period of time after
mailing notice to the applicant as shall be specified by ordi-
nance. During such period an appeal may be taken to the
Council by the applicant, any person aggrieved, the Director
of Planning, or by any board ,department or bureau of the
City. Such appeal shall set forth in writing wherein the appel-
lant believes there was error or abuse of discretion on the part
of the Board of Zoning Appeals. An appeal shall stay all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from pend-
ing its disposition. The Council, when considering an appeal
from an action by the Board of Zoning Appeals, shall be sub-
ject to the same limitations as are placed on the Board of
Zoning Appeals by this Charter and by ordinance. Action by
the Council shall be by majority vote, subject to the approval
of the Mayor. The Mayor shall approve or disapprove such
action within 10 days of its presentation to him. His approval
or disapproval shall be based solely upon the administrative
record therein and whether he believes such action to be in
compliance with the requirements for the grant of a variance
set forth in Section 98 of this Charter. If he disapproves such
action, he shall return the matter to the City Clerk for pres-
entation to the Council together with his objections in writing
and the Council, within 60 days after the matter has been
presented to it, may override such disapproval by a two-
thirds vote of the whole Council. If the Mayor fails to return
the matter to the City Clerk within such 10 day period, the
action of the Council shall become effective.
   (4) The Board of Zoning Appeals, upon assuming jurisdic-
tion of a matter after a transfer of jurisdiction from a Zoning
Administrator, shall follow the same procedures and be subject
to the same limitations as are applicable to a Zoning Admin-
istrator. When the Board assumes jurisdiction, the Zoning
Administrator shall lose jurisdiction except that the matter
3868              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 213

may be remanded to the Zoning Administrator, or the Board
may accept applicant's request for withdrawal of such transfer
of jurisdiction, in which cases the Zoning Administrator shall
regain jurisdiction for the time and purpose specified by the
Board. If the Board retains jurisdiction, the Office of Zoning
Administration shall make investigations and furnish reports
upon such matters as the Board may request. "When a matter
is requested to be transferred, the Zoning Administrator may
file with the Board a statement of facts pertaining to the
matter, and shall transmit to the Board the files in the case.
    (5) The Council, within the limitations established by this
Charter, may prescribe by ordinance rules and regulations
providing for the time, manner, method and procedure for the
hearing and determining of the matters under the jurisdiction
of the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board may adopt such
rules as it may deem necessary to carry out the rules and
regulations prescribed by ordinance and which are not in con-
flict or inconsistent therewith. All such rules and regulations
shall be available for inspection in the office of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.

            PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT NO. 2

   The Charter of the City of Los Angeles is hereby amended
by adding Section 219.4 thereto to read as follows:
   Section 219.4. The Board of Water and Power Commission-
ers shall have power and authority (subject to authorization
or approval by ordinance) to contract with others (including
all or any of the following: the United States or any of its
agencies, any state or state agency, and any corporation, pub-
lic or private, within or without the State of California), for
the construction, ownership, operation and maintenance of
facilities for the generation, transformation and transmission
of electric energy.
   Any such contract may provide for a sharing of the use and
benefits of such facilities and of the capital charges and other
obligations associated therewith. The term of any such contract
may extend over the period of the useful life of the facilities
involved.
            PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT NO. 4

  The Charter of the City of Los Angeles is hereby amended
by amending Sections 343 and 352 thereof to read as follows:
  Sec. 343. At such time as the Mayor may prescribe, but
not later than the first day of May of each year, each board
or officer at the head of any department or branch of the city
government other than those departments given control of
their own funds, shall submit to the Mayor, with duplicates
to the City Council and to the director of the Bureau of
Budget and Efficiency, on forms and in the manner prescribed
by the Mayor, or by ordinance, if forms are prescribed by
ordinance, a detailed estimate of the money required for the
                     1969
Res. Ch. 213]               REGULAR SESSION                  3869
next ensuing fiscal year for the proper conduct of the depart-
ments and offices under their respective control. The classifica-
tion of these estimates shall be as nearly uniform as possible
and shall exhibit clearly the functions performed by each
department, bureau, or office, and the objects and services
which it is estimated will be required to carry on the several
functions. With the estimates shall be submitted such sum-
maries, schedules and supporting data as may be prescribed
by the Mayor or by ordinance, if forms are prescribed by
ordinance. Any department head, whose estimate provides for
increases over the appropriation of the previous year for his
office or department, shall indicate, under appropriate classifi-
cations, the relative order of the immediate importance of
such increases. After consultation with the head of a depart-
ment, the Mayor may refer the estimate of such head of de-
partment back to said head of department with instructions to
prepare a revised estimate on the basis of a maximum sum
for the department, such maximum sum to be fixed by the
Mayor, or with such further qualification as the Mayor shall
determine. Said head of department shall present such revised
estimate to the Mayor, with a duplicate to the council and to
the director of the Bureau of Budget and Efficiency, at a date
fixed by the Mayor.
    On or before the first day of April of each year the Con-
troller shall submit to the Mayor, with a duplicate to the Coun-
cil and to the director of the Bureau of Budget and Efficiency,
a detailed statement of the money which he estimates will be
required for the interest and sinking funds and for all out-
standing bonded indebtedness and other lawful obligations of
the city or of special districts therein; also an estimate of the
revenue to be derived from fines, licenses and other sources,
exclusive of taxes upon property.
    Sec. 352. Not earlier than the month of June but not later
than the last day of the month in which the statement of prop-
erty valuations within the city as required by law is received,
the Council shall adopt an ordinance levying upon the assessed
valuation of the property of the city, in accordance with the
provisions of this charter, a rate of taxation upon each one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of valuation, which, with the
amounts, if any, theretofore transferred from the "reserve
f u n d " in or for the current fiscal year subsequent to the adop-
tion of the annual budget to provide in whole or in p a r t the
funds for items appropriated in the annual budget, or so trans-
ferred to the "general f u n d " or transferred from the " r e -
serve f u n d " to meet in whole or in part the amount budgeted
for the "unappropriated balance" together with the total
amount estimated by the Controller to be received from fines,
licenses, and other sources of revenue, will be sufficient to raise
the amount appropriated in the annual budget, provided that
the amount of such tax shall not exceed the limit elsewhere in
this charter provided. Such ordinance may be passed by a ma-
3870                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Res. Ch. 214

jority vote of the whole Council upon the day following its
introduction, or at a later date, or, upon the day of its intro-
duction by unanimous vote, as provided in Section 26.
    We further certify that we have compared the text of the
foregoing amendments with the original proposals submitting
the same to the electors of said city and find that the foregoing
are full, true, correct, complete and exact copies thereof, and
of each of them. That as to all of said amendments, this cer-
tificate shall be taken as a full and complete certification of
the regularity of all proceedings had and done in connection
therewith.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and have
caused the corporate seal of the City of Los Angeles to be
affixed hereto this 9th day of June 1969.
                         J O H N S. GIBSON, J R .
   (SEAL)                President Pro Tempore of the Council
                           of the City of Los Angeles
                         R E X E. LATTON
                         City Clerk of the City of Los Angeles
and
   WHEREAS, The said proposed amendments as ratified as here-
inbefore set forth have been and are now duly presented and
submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for ap-
proval or rejection as a whole without the power of alteration
in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution
of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all of the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendments to the Charter of the City of Los An-
geles as proposed to and adopted and ratified by the electors of
said city, and as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same
are hereby approved as a whole, without amendment or altera-
tion, for and as amendments to and as a part of the Charter
of the said City of Los Angeles.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 214
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 202—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of Burbank, County of Los
  Angeles, State of California, voted for and ratified by the
  qualified electors of said city at an election held therein on
  the 27th day of May, 1969.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 24, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pur-
pose of adoption and ratification of certain amendments, here-
inafter set forth, to the Charter of the City of Burbank, a
                     1969
Res. Ch. 214]               REGULAR SKSSION                  3871
municipal corporation, situated in the County of Los Angeles,
State of California, as set out in the certificate of the Mayor of
the City of Burbank and the city clerk of said city as fol-
lows, to wit:
State of California    j
County of Los Angeles > ss
City of Burbank       J
    We, the undersigned, George W. Haven, Mayor of the City
 of Burbank, State of California, and Marion W. Marshall, City
 Clerk of said City, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
    The City of Burbank, in the County of Los Angeles, State
 of California, was at all times mentioned herein and now is a
 City of the State of California existing and acting under a
 charter duly adopted and approved under and by virtue of
 Section 8, Article XI, of the Constitution of the State of Cali-
 fornia, contain- a population of over fifty thousand inhabit-
ants.
    In accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of Article
X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the City
Council of said City, being the legislative body thereof, on
its own motion submitted to the electors of said city, at a
special municipal election called for that purpose, held within
said City on the 27th day of May, 1969, certain proposed
amendments to the City Charter of said City.
   Said proposed amendments were published in the Burbank
Daily Review, a newspaper of general circulation printed and
published in said City and having a general circulation therein,
said newspaper being the official newspaper of said City, on
the 4th day of April, 1969, in each edition thereof on said day,
and said publication was made at the time and in the manner
prescribed in Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of the
State of California.
   Said legislative body caused copies of said amendments to
be printed in convenient pamphlet form and in type of not
less than ten-point, and caused copies thereof to be mailed to
each of the qualified electors of said City, and, until the day
fixed for said election, advertised in said Burbank Daily Re-
view, a newspaper having a general circulation in said City,
a notice that copies thereof could be had upon application
therefor, and in accordance with said notice copies thereof
could be had upon application therefor.
   Said election was duly and regularly held on the said 27th
day of May, 1969, which said date of the said election was not
less than forty nor more than sixty days after the completion
of the advertising in said newspaper of said proposed amend-
ments, and at said election a majority of the qualified voters
voting thereon voted in favor thereof and did ratify said pro-
posed amendments to said City Charter.
   Said proposed amendments were duly and regularly sub-
mitted to, and duly and regularly ratified by, the said quali-
   122—1954
3872               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            [R es _ (fa £14

fled voters of said City, and that all and singular the require-
ments of the Constitution and laws of the State of California
and the Charter of said City have been complied with and
that said amendments are as follows:

                 ' ' CHARTER AMENDMENT NO. 1

  " A new section numbered 3.5 is added to the Charter of the
City of Burbank to read as follows:

                         " J o i n t Powers.
   "Section 3.5. The City shall have the power to contract
with any governmental entity, regulated public utility, or other
public or private corporation, to perform such services or to
acquire, construct, or administer jointly such public works,
public utilities, or other facilities, either inside or outside the
City limits, as are beneficial to its citizens or the consumers of
its utilities.''
                  ' ' CHARTER AMENDMENT NO. 2

  "Section 43 of the Charter of the City of Burbank is
amended to read as follows:

               "Municipal Bonded Indebtedness.
   "Section 43. The incurring of any general obligation
bonded indebtedness of the City shall require the votes of two-
thirds of the voters voting at a special election to be held for
that purpose; provided, however, that when two or more
propositions for incurring any bonded indebtedness are sub-
mitted at the same election the votes cast for and against each
proposition shall be counted separately and when two-thirds
of the voters voting on any one of such propositions vote in
favor thereof such proposition shall be deemed adopted. Such
special election may be consolidated with any municipal,
county, State or other election.
   "Before or at the time of incurring such bonded indebted-
ness, provision shall be made as required by the Constitution
of the State of California for the collection of an annual tax
sufficient to pay the interest on such bonded indebtedness as
it falls due and also to constitute a sinking fund for the pay-
ment of the principal thereof on or before maturity. The
Council may at any time use, for the payment of principal or
interest of such bonds, revenues derived from sales or use taxes
or any other revenues or income of the City not allocated to,
set aside for, or required to be used for a specific purpose or
constituting a special or trust fund.
   " T h e provisions of this section shall not apply to revenue
bonds issued pursuant to the provisions of the laws of the
State of California or procedural ordinance of the City and
payable solely from the revenues of a revenue producing sys-
tem or facility of the City, and nothing in this section or else-
                    1969
Kes. Ch. 214]              REGULAR SESSION                  3873
where in this Charter shall authorize the use of any revenues
of any revenue producing system or facility of the City in any
manner or for any purpose contrary to a covenant or agree-
ment contained in any ordinance, resolution or other proceed-
ing (whether taken or adopted before or subsequent to the
adoption of this section) authorizing the issuance of revenue
bonds payable from the revenues of such revenue producing
system or facility."
   This is to certify that we, George W. Haven, Mayor of the
City of Burbank, and Marion W. Marshall, City Clerk of the
City of Burbank, have compared the ratified amendments with
the original proposed amendments submitted to the qualified
electors of the said City, and find that the foregoing is a full,
true, correct and exact copy of said amendments.
   We further certify that the facts set forth in the preamble
preceding said amendments to said Charter are true.
  I n witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the corporate seal of the City of Burbank to be attached
on this 10th day of June, 1969.
                                GEORGE W.    HAVEN
(SEAL)                          George W. Haven, Mayor of the
                                 City of Burbank, California
                                MARION W. MARSHALL
                                Marion W. Marshall, City Clerk
                                 of the City of Burbank, Cali-
                                 fornia
Approved as to form:
  SAMUEL GORLICK
   Samuel Gorlick
     City Attorney
and
   "WHEREAS, Said amendments to the Charter of the City of
Burbank so ratified as hereinbefore set forth have been duly
presented and submitted to the Legislature of the State of
California, for approval or rejection, without power of altera-
tion or amendment, all in accordance with Section 8 of Article
X I of the Constitution of the State of California, now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring     therein,
That said amendments to the Charter of the City of Burbank
as proposed to and adopted and ratified by the electors of said
city and hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same are
hereby approved as a whole without amendment or alteration
for and as amendments and as part of the said Charter of the
City of Burbank.
 3874                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [ R e s . CI). 2 1 5

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 215
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 139—Relative to the retire-
               ment of Chester Russell Grain.
               [Filed with Secretary of State June 25, 1969 I

   "WHEREAS, It has come to the attention of the members that
 Chester Russell Grain is voluntarily retiring as Mayor of the
 City of Compton and as an instructor at Compton College; and
   "WHEREAS, Born in Dea Moines Iowa, in 3914, Mr. Grain
 came to California in 1923, where he attended Compton High
 School and Compton Junior College, and received his bache-
 lor's degree from Chapman College in 1935 and his master's
 degree from the University of Southern California in 1941;
 and
   WHEREAS, He taught at Enterprise Junior High and Comp-
ton High Schools prior to becoming an instructor at Compton
 College in 1941, where he has taught English, and coached
track, football, and basketball until the present; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Grain was elected to the Compton City
 Council in 1953 and has served as both a councilman and as
the Mayor of Compton; and
   WHEREAS, He is an active leader in many community orga-
nizations, including the Compton Chamber of Commerce, of
which he was president in 1950, the Junior Chamber of Com-
merce where he was honored as "Young Man of the Year",
and the Cancer Society where he was chairman for several
years; now therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the Slate of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members commend Chester
Russell Grain for his many years of leadership and service to
his community, congratulate him upon his retirement and ex-
tend their best wishes for many years of happiness with his
wife, Thelma, and their children and grandchildren; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Chester Russell Grain.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 216
        Senate Joint Resolution No. 19—Relative to federal
                  funds for urban public transit.
              [Filed with Secretary ot State June 25,1909 1

  WHEREAS, At the present time, federal participation in urban
public transit programs is in no way comparable to the more
adequate federal participation in aviation and highway pro-
grams; and
 Res. Cll. 2J7]             1969 R E G U L A R S E S S I O N       3875

     WHEREAS, It is impossible for state and local governments
  to plan expenditures and initiate programs in the area of
 urban public Iransit without having adequate and dependable
 assistance from the federal level; and
     WHEREAS, A trust fund, similar to that set up for highway
 programs, which does not depend upon yearly congressional
 appropriations, is needed for urban public transit in order to
 allow for planning over a reasonable period of time; and
    WHEREAS, There is now legislation before Congress embrac-
 ing this trust fund concept and which is a step in the right
 direction; and
    WHEREAS, It appears that urban public transit is a necessary
 adjunct to our highway system in California and throughout
 the nation, as a means of transporting the large populations of
 certain metropolitan areas; and
    WHEKEAS, The urban public transit trust funds should be
drawn from a source other than highway trust funds, since
 in California, and other states, even at present rates of col-
lection and expenditure of trust funds, highway needs will not
be met; and
    WHEREAS, Such federal assistance should also provide
for protection of the interests of employees of presently exist-
ing transit systems which may be affected thereby with respect
to collective bargaining rights, continuation of pension rights,
paid retraining programs, reemployment priorities, and dislo-
cation allowances; now, therefore, be it
    Resolved ly the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States to
enact legislation setting up a trust fund for the development
and support of urban public transit systems with provisions to
protect the interests and welfare of employees of existing tran-
sit systems; and be it further
    Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
1o the Secretary of Transportation, and to each Senator and
Representative from California in the Congress of the United
States.

                    RESOLUTION CHAPTER 217
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 41—Relative to
              emergency oil pollution control.
                  [Filed with Secretary of State June 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The massive oil spillage from an offshore oil
drilling operation on federal outercontinental shelflands in
the Santa Barbara Channel has wreaked terrible damage and
destruction to the scenic California coast and to the marine
and coastal wildlife resources of the state; and
3876               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                  [ R e s . Cll. 2 1 8

   WHEREAS, The tragic extent of this disaster demonstrates
the urgent need to develop emergency methods and equipment
to quickly control oil pollution occurring in ocean waters due
to drilling, seepage, transmission line break, or other accident;
now, therefore, be it
   Eesolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members most strongly
urge all oil companies operating off the coast of California, in
recognition of the hazardous nature of their operations, to give
the highest priority to the development of a portable oil con-
 trol boom system with talcum, oil dispersants, and vacuuming
equipment which can be transported on an emergency basis
to quickly and effectively contain and control oil pollution
from drilling, seepage, transmission line break, or other ac-
 cident occurring in our coastal waters; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
 copies of this resolution to such oil companies.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTEE 218
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 198—
                     Relative to Berlin.
              [Piled with Secretary of State June 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Volksfest, sponsored annually by the United
States Army Command in Berlin, promotes German-American
goodwill in this historic city, 110 miles behind the Iron Cur-
tain in Bast Germany; and
   WHEREAS, The United States Army forces and other Allied
troops in West Berlin maintain an "Island of Freedom" for
all citizens of this city; and
   WHEREAS, The theme of the 1969 Volksfest is "Los Angeles,
Bridge to the Stars," with all proceeds derived therefrom do-
nated to worthy causes and charitable organizations; and
   WHEREAS, The City of Los Angeles, the largest city in the
State of California, is honored to have been selected as the
theme city for this year's Volksfest and welcomes the oppor-
tunity to display the products of its vast aerospace industry
and the wonders of the Hollywood film industry, both of which
have added immeasurably to the enrichment of all the world's
citizens; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
 Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to extend the state's cordial best wishes to the United
States Army in Berlin and its Commanding Officer, Major Gen-
 eral Robert G. Ferguson, for a successful Volksfest observance,
 and wish the good citizens of Berlin health, happiness, and
 Godspeed for all time to come; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
 copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.
                         1969
Res. Ch. 220]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3877
                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 219
   Assembly Joint Resolution No. 29—Relative to payments
            to members of the Philippine Scouts.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 26, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Legislation has been introduced in the Congress
of the United States to provide adequate benefits for members
and survivors of the Philippine Scouts; and
   WHEREAS, The battlefields of Bataan and Corregidor are
living testimony to the contributions made by the members
of the Philippine Scouts during World War I I ; and
   WHEREAS, The Philippine Scouts was established in 1901
as part of the United States Army after valiantly serving the
Army as guides and as fighting men; and
   WHEREAS, In World War I I , members of the Philippine
Scouts were permitted to and did enlist in the United States
Army, and served hand in hand with the American soldiers
in the fight to repulse the common enemy; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
supports legislation to provide adequate benefits for members
and survivors of the Philippine Scouts, and urges Congress
to enact such legislation; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and the Vice Presi-
dent of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, and to each Senator and Representative in
the Congress of the United States.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 220
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 72—Relative to the pres-
  ervation of the Mendocino Headland and Big River Beach
  area as a state park.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 26, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Mendocino Headland and Big River Beach
area in Mendocino County is an area of great natural beauty
and ecological significance and forms an essential part of
the natural setting of the historic coastal village of Mendocino;
and
   WHEREAS, The scenic beauty, the unique ecological at-
tributes, and the historical and cultural value of this area
should be preserved for the enjoyment of future generations
of Californians; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Department of Parks and
3878               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. Ci). 2 2 1

Recreation is directed to study the feasibility of preserving
the Mendocino Headland and Big River Beach area in Men-
docino County as a state park and to report its findings and
recommendations to the Legislature no later than the fifth
legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Parks and Recrea-
tion.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 221
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 15—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by amending the
  second and third paragraphs of Section 13 of Article XII
  thereof and by amending the second, and third paragraphs
  of Section 30 of Article XIII, as proposed by Assembly
  Constitutional Amendment No. 31, relating to the invest-
  ment of retirement funds.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 26, 1969.1

   Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-thirds
of the members elected to each of the two houses of the Legis-
lature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of
the State of California that the Constitution of the state be
 amended as follows:
    First—That the second and third paragraphs of Section 13
 of Article X I I are amended to read:
   Notwithstanding provisions to the contrary in this section
 and Section 25 of Article X I I I of this Constitution, the Legis-
lature may authorize the investment of moneys of any public
pension or retirement fund, not to exceed 25 percent of the
assets of such fund determined on the basis of cost in the
common stock or shares and not to exceed 5 percent of assets
in preferred stock or shares of any corporation provided:
   a. Such stock is registered on a national securities exchange,
as provided in the "Securities Exchange Act of 1934" as
amended, but such registration shall not be required with
respect to the following stocks:
   1) The common stock of a bank which is a member of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and has capital funds,
represented by capital, surplus, and undivided profits, of at
least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) ;
   2) The common stock of an insurance company which has
capital funds, represented by capital, special surplus funds,
and unassigned surplus, of at least fifty million dollars ($50,-
000,000);
   3) Any preferred stock
                     1969
Ties. Oh. 221]              REGULAR SRSSION                  3879
    b. Such corporation has total assets of at least one hundred
 million dollars ($100,000,000);
    c. Bonds of such corporation, if any are outstanding, qualify
for investment under the law governing the investment of the
 retirement fund, and there are no arrears of dividend pay-
ments on its preferred stock;
    d. Such corporation has paid a cash dividend on its common
 stock in at least 8 of the 10 years next preceding the date of
investment, and the aggregate net earnings available for divi-
dends on the common stock of such corporation for the whole
of such period have been equal to the amount of such divi-
dends paid, and such corporation has paid an earned cash
dividend in each of the last 3 years;
    e. Such investment in any one company may not exceed 5
percent of the common stock shares outstanding; and
   f. No single common stock investment may exceed 2 per-
cent of the assets of the fund, based on cost.
   Notwithstanding provisions to the contrary in this section
and Section 25 of Article X I I I of this Constitution, the Legis-
lature may authorize the investment of moneys of any public
pension or retirement fund, in stock or shares of a diversified
management investment company registered under the ' ' In-
vestment Company Act of 1940" which has total assets of at
least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000); provided, however,
that the total investment in such stocks and shares, together
with stocks and shares of all other corporations may not ex-
ceed 25 percent of the assets of such fund determined on the
basis of the cost of the stocks or shares.
   And be it further resolved, That the Legislature having
adopted Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 31 at its
1969 Kegular Session to propose, among other things, an
amendment to Article X I I I of the State Constitution by add-
 ing a Section 30 thereto for the sole purpose of transferring
from Article X I I to Article X I I I , provisions relating to the
state's lending its credit and owning stock in corporations, it
is the intent of the Legislature, if both Assembly Constitu-
tional Amendment No. 31 and Assembly Constitutional Amend-
ment No. 15, 1969 Regular Session, are approved by the elec-
tors, that both shall be given effect regardless of the vote by
which they are approved and that their provisions be con-
strued together so as to give effect to both in the following
manner:
   First—That the second and third paragraphs of Section 30
of Article X I I I , as proposed by Assembly Constitutional
Amendment No. 31, adopted by the Legislature at the 1969
Regular Session, are amended to read .-
   Notwithstanding provisions to the contrary in this section
and Section 25 of this article, the Legislature may authorize
the investment of moneys of any public pension or retirement
fund not to exceed 25 percent of the assets of such fund de-
termined on the basis of cost in the common stock or shares
3880               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [B e s _ (Jfr 221

 and not to exceed 5 percent of assets in preferred stock or
shares of any corporation provided:
    a. Such stock is registered on a national securities exchange,
as provided in the "Securities Exchange Act of 1934" as
amended, but such registration shall not be required with
respect to the following stocks:
    1) The common stock of a bank which is a member of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and has capital funds,
represented by capital, surplus, and undivided profits, of at
 least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000);
    2) The common stock of an insurance company which has
 capital funds, represented by capital, special surplus funds,
and unassigned surplus, of at least fifty million dollars
 ($50,000,000);
    3) Any preferred stock;
    b. Such corporation has total assets of at least one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000);
    c. Bonds of such corporation, if any are outstanding, qual-
 ify for investment under the law governing the investment of
the retirement fund, and there are no arrears of dividend pay-
ments on its preferred stock;
    d. Such corporation has paid a cash dividend on its com-
mon stock in at least 8 of the 10 years next preceding the date
of investment, and the aggregate net earnings available for
dividends on the common stock of such corporation for the
whole of such period have been equal to the amount of such
dividends paid, and such corporation has paid an earned cash
dividend in each of the last 3 years;
    e. Such investment in any one company may not exceed
5 percent of the common stock shares outstanding; and
    f. No single common stock investment may exceed 2 percent
of the assets of the fund, based on cost.
    Notwithstanding provisions to the contrary in this section
and Section 25 of this article, the Legislature may authorize
the investment of moneys of any public pension or retirement
fund in stock or shares of a diversified management investment
company registered under the "Investment Company Act of
1940" which has total assets of at least fifty million dollars
 ($50,000,000) ; provided, however, that the total investment in
such stocks and shares, together with stocks and shares of all
other corporations may not exceed 25 percent of the assets of
such fund determined on the basis of the cost of the stocks or
shares.
    Second—That the provisions of the second resolved clause
of this measure shall become operative only if the amendment
to Article X I I I of the State Constitution proposed by Assem-
bly Constitutional Amendment No. 31 of the 1969 Eegular
Session is approved by a majority of the electors, in which
case the amendments to the second and third paragraphs of
Section 13 of Article X I I , as appearing in the first resolved
clause of Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 15, shall
not become operative.
                         1969
Res. Ch. 223]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3881
                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 222
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 182—Relative to com-
  mending the contributions of the Chinese in the completion
  of the transcontinental railroad.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 26, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, On May 10, 1869, at Promontory, Utah, flag-
decorated special trains from the east and the west met for
the triumphant golden spike ceremony marking the joining of
the Central Pacific and the Union Pacific to complete the
transcontinental railroad; and
   WHEREAS, Chinese laborers represented four-fifths of the
labor force, and at times more, for construction of the Central
Pacific Railroad through the Sierra Nevada Mountains in the
1860's; and
  WHEBEAS, Leland Stanford, Central Pacific president, said
of the Chinese workers, '' Without them it would be impossible
to complete the western portion of this great national highway
in the time required by the acts of Congress"; and
  WHEREAS, Charles Crocker, Central Pacific's construction
chief, said "Without Chinese labor we would be thrown back
in all branches of industry, farming, mining, reclaiming lands,
and everything else''; and
  WHEREAS, The Chinese workers, who contributed so much in
the construction of the Central Pacific Railroad, took no part
in the celebration marking the completion of the railroad; now,
therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members hereby recognize
the major role played by the Chinese laborers in completion
of the transcontinental railroad and the resulting growth and
prosperity of California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to appropriate
Chinese organizations throughout the state.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 223
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 192—Approving amend-
  ments to the Charter of the City of Palo Alto, County of
  Santa Clara, State of California, ratified by the electors
  of said city at the general municipal election held on the
  13th day of May, 1969.
                [Piled with Secretary of State June 26, 1969.]

  WHEBEAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption and ratification of nine amendments to the
Charter of the City of Palo Alto, a municipal corporation, in
3882               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 223

the County of Santa Clara, State of California, as set forth in
the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of said city as fol-
lows, to wit:
  CERTIFICATE OF RATIFICATION BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
            PALO ALTO OF CHARTER AMENDMENTS

State of California   1
County of Santa Clara \ s s :
City of Palo Alto     J
   We, the undersigned, Edward S. Arnold, Mayor of the City
 of Palo Alto and presiding officer of the Council of the City
 of Palo Alto, and Jacqueline C. Klamm, City Clerk and clerk
 of the Council of said city, do hereby certify and declare as
follows:
    That the City of Palo Alto, a municipal corporation, in the
 County of Santa Clara, State of California, contains a popula-
tion of over 50,000 inhabitants and ever since the year 1909
has been and is now organized, existing and acting under a
Freeholders' Charter adopted under and by virtue of Section
 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California
 (Stats. 1909, page 1175) ; and
    That the Council of the City of Palo Alto, as the legislative
body of said city, did by Resolution No. 4209 submit on its own
motion to the qualified electors of said City of Palo Alto at the
 1969 general municipal election eight proposed amendments to
the Charter of the City of Palo Alto; and
   That the Council of the City of Palo Alto, as the legislative
body of said city, did by Resolution No. 4213 submit on its own
motion to the qualified electors of said City of Palo Alto at
the 1969 general municipal election one additional proposed
amendment to the Charter of the City of Palo Alto; and
   That said proposed charter amendments were on April 1,
1969, being not less than forty days nor more than sixty days
before said election, published in the Palo Alto Times,
the official newspaper of said city and a newspaper of general
circulation therein, and in each edition thereof during said
day of publication, and said proposed amendments were
printed in convenient pamphlet form and in type of not less
than ten-point and copies thereof were mailed to each of the
qualified electors of said city, and until the day fixed for the
election upon said amendments it was advertised in said news-
paper that the copies thereof could be had upon application
therefor at the office of the City Clerk of said city; and
   That said proposed amendments were duly and regularly
submitted to the qualified electors of the City of Palo Alto in
the manner provided in Section 8 of Article X I of the Con-
stitution of the State of California and that said election, after
due notice given and published, was duly and regularly held
in the City of Palo Alto on May 13. 1969; and
                      1969
 lies Ch 223]                REGULAR SESSION                   3gg3

      That the returns of said election were canvassed and it was
  duly found, determined and declared that the amendments to
  the Charter of the City of Palo Alto hereinafter set forth were
  ratified by a majority of the electors of said city voting
  thereon; and
      That the Council of said city did by its Resolution No. 4251
  adopted May 19, 1969, duly declare the results of said election
  as determined by the canvass of the returns thereof; and
     That as to said charter amendments this certificate shall
 be taken as a full and complete certification as to the regu-
 larity of all proceedings had and done in connection there-
 with; and
     That said amendments to the Charter of the City of Palo
 Alto are as follows:
      (a) Section !I5 of Article I I I is amended to read as follows:
     "Sec. 15. Franchises granted by electors; term. No fran-
 chise shall be granted by the council, but may be granted by
 the electors by ordinances proposed and adopted as provided
 in Section 2 of Article VI of this charter; provided, that the
 petition therefor shall be signed by qualified and registered
 voters equal in number to at least twelve percentum of the
 number of registered voters at the last preceding general mu-
 nicipal election; and provided further, that no franchise shall
 be granted for a longer term than twenty-five years."
     (b) Section 17 of Article I I I is amended to read as follows:
    "Sec. 17. Salary of councilmen; councilmen barred from
 other city office. No member of the council shall hold any
 other office or employment the compensation for which is paid
 out of the moneys of this City. No member of the council shall
 be elected or appointed to any city office for which compensa-
tion is paid until one year after the termination of his mem-
 bership in the council, either by resignation or expiration of
his term. Compensation may be paid councilmen in amounts
not to exceed those provided by general law."
     (c) Subsection p. of Section 6 of Article IV is amended to
read as follows:
    " p . To coordinate the purchasing for all departments of the
 City. No purchase shall be made without the approval of the
city manager and city controller."
    (d) Section 2 of Article V I is amended to read as follows:
    "Sec. 2. Initiative. Any proposed ordinance may be sub-
mitted to the council by a petition signed by qualified and reg-
istered electors of the city equal in number to the percentage
hereinafter required. The petition shall set forth a copy of
the proposed ordinance, and the signatures, verifications, and
duties of the clerk in respect to the petition provided in Sec-
tion 1 of this Article for the recall shall apply to petitions of
initiative. Before circulating an initiative petition the propo-
nents shall publish a notice of intention so to do in conform-
ance with the provisions of general law.
3884              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Cll. 223

   " I f the petition accompanying the proposed ordinance be
signed by qualified and registered electors equal in number to
six percentum of the number of registered voters at the last
general municipal election the council must either pass such
ordinance without alteration or submit the same to the elec-
torate at the next general municipal election that shall occur
at any time after thirty days from the date of the clerk's cer-
tificate of sufficiency. But if such petition is signed by quali-
fied and registered electors equal in number to twelve per-
centum of said number of registered voters at the last general
municipal election and contains a request that such ordinance
be submitted to a vote of the people at a special election, then
the council must either pass the ordinance without alteration
or submit the same to the electorate at a special election to be
called within sixty days from the filing of such petition.
   '' The ballots used when voting upon such proposed ordinance
shall contain the words " F o r the Ordinance," and "Against
the Ordinance" (stating the nature of the proposed ordinance).
If a majority of the qualified electors voting on said proposed
ordinance shall vote in favor thereof, such ordinance shall
thereupon become a valid and binding ordinance of the City.
The council may at such election submit any amendment
thereto that it may deem proper, and the ballots used at such
election shall contain the words " F o r the Amendment," or
"Against the Amendment," or ordinance (naming the ordi-
nance), and also stating the nature of the proposed amend-
ment. If a majority of the qualified electors voting on said
proposed amendment shall vote in favor thereof, such ordi-
nance shall thereupon be deemed amended in accordance there-
with. The council may also propose and submit any ordinance
to the electors, and such ordinance, upon receiving a majority
of the votes of the electors voting thereon, shall be deemed to
have been adopted and shall be a valid and binding ordinance
of the City. Any ordinance adopted by the electors under the
provisions of this article cannot be repealed or amended, ex-
 cept by a vote of the people obtained in the manner herein-
before stated, unless such ordinance shall otherwise provide.
   " A n y number of proposed ordinances may be voted upon
at the same election in accordance with the provisions of this
section; provided, that there shall not be held under this sec-
tion of the charter more than one special election in any
period of twelve months.''
   (e) Section 3 of Article V I I is amended to read as follows:
   "Sec. 3. Candidates' designation. No ballot used at any
municipal election shall contain any reference to a political
party, and no designation or symbol shall be placed in con-
nection with the name of any candidate, except that an in-
cumbent shall be so designated. The order of listing of candi-
dates' names on the ballot shall be determined by lot."
   (f) Article V I I I is amended to read as follows:
                     1969
Ees. Ch. 223]               REGULAR SESSION                  3885

                    "Article V I I I .   Parks
   " A l l lands owned or controlled by the city which are or will
be used for park, playground, recreation or conservation pur-
poses shall be dedicated for such purposes by ordinance.
   "No land heretofore or hereafter dedicated for such pur-
poses shall be sold or otherwise disposed of, nor shall its use
be abandoned or discontinued except pursuant to majority
vote of the electorate. Any election and related procedures
under Article V I I I shall conform to the provisions set forth
in general law as it existed January 1, 1965, except that the
council may call such election by majority vote.
   "No substantial building, construction, reconstruction or
development upon or with respect to any lands so dedicated
shall be made except pursuant to ordinance subject to referen-
dum. ' '
    (g) Subsection (b) of Section 2 of Article VIII-A is
amended to read as follows:
   " (b) Time of election. The election and recall of members
of the Board of Education shall be held at the times and in
the manner provided by the Education Code of the State of
California; provided, however, in the year 1951 five members
shall be elected and the members so elected shall classify them-
selves by lot so that the terms of the members shall expire,
respectively, one, two, three, four and five years after the first
day of July, 1951."
    (h) Section 1 of Article I X is amended to read as follows:
   "Sec. 1. Compliance with Constitution. This charter may
be amended on compliance with the provisions of the Consti-
tution of the State of California.''
    (i) Section 1 of Article V I is amended to read as follows:
   "Sec. 1. Recall. Proceedings may be commenced for re-
call of any councilman by the service, filing and publication
of a notice of intention to circulate a recall petition. Proceed-
ings may not be commenced unless, at the time of commence-
ment, the councilman has held office for at least six months
and no recall petition has been filed against him within the
preceding six months.
   " T h e petition demanding the recall of the councilman
sought to be recalled, signed by registered voters equal in
number to at least twelve percentum of the number of regis-
tered voters at the last general municipal election, shall be
filed with the clerk. One election is sufficient for the recall of
one or more councilmen, but a separate petition is necessary
to propose the recall of each councilman.
   " N o signature may be affixed to the petition until the pro-
ponents have served, filed and published a notice of intention
to circulate a recall petition, containing the name of the coun-
cilman sought to be recalled, a statement in not more than five
hundred words of the grounds on which the recall is sought,
and the name and address of at least one proponent. The notice
of intention shall be served, personally or by certified mail,
3886               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 223

on the councilman sought to be recalled, and a copy thereof
with a certificate of the time and manner of service shall be
filed with the clerk.
   "Within seven days after the filing of the notice of inten-
tion, the councilman sought to be recalled may file with the
clerk an answer in not more than five hundred words to the
statement of the proponents and, if an answer is filed, shall
serve a copy thereof, personally or by certified mail, on one
of the proponents named in the notice of intention. The state-
ment and answer are intended solely for the information of
the voters and no insufficiency in the form or substance thereof
shall affect the validity of the election or proceedings. The
notice, statement and answer, if any, shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation.
    "Seven days after the publication of the notice, statement
and answer, if any, the recall petition may be circulated and
signed. The petition shall bear a copy of the notice of inten-
tion, statement and answer, if any. If the councilman has not
answered, the petition shall so state. Signatures shall be se-
cured and the petition filed within ninety days from the filing
of the notice of intention. If such petition is not filed within
the time permitted by this section, the same shall be void for
all purposes.
    '' The signatures to the petition need not all be appended to
one paper, but said petition may be presented in sections. The
number of signatures to each section shall be at the pleasure of
the person soliciting signatures to the same. Any qualified voter
of the municipality shall be competent to solicit said signatures.
Each section shall have attached thereto the affidavit of the
person soliciting signatures to the same, stating that all the
signatures to the attached section were made in his presence,
and that to the best of his knowledge and belief each signature
to 1he section is the genuine signature of the person whose name
purports to be thereunto subscribed, and no other affidavit
thereto shall be required. Each signature, the genuineness of
which is not called in question by the sworn affidavit of the
alleged owner thereof, shall be presumed to be genuine. Unless
and until it be proven otherwise by official investigation, it
shall be presumed that the petition presented contains the
signatures of the requisite number of qualified voters. Each
signer of said petition shall add to his signature the date of
signing and his place of residence, giving the street and num-
ber. When filed with the clerk, the petition shall have desig-
nated therein the name or number of the respective precinct in
which each of the signers resides.
    "Within ten days from the date of filing such petition, the
clerk shall examine and ascertain from the records of registra-
tion whether or not said petition is signed by the requisite num-
ber of electors entitled to vote, and if necessary the council
shall allow the clerk extra help for that purpose, and the clerk
shall attach to said petition his certificate showing the result of
said examination. If, by the said certificate, the petition is
                      1969
Kcs. Oh. 223]                REGULAR SESSION                     3887

 shown to be insufficient, it may be amended by additional sig-
 natures within ten days from the date of said certificate. The
 clerk shall, within ten days after such amendment, make like
examination of the amended petition, and if his certificate shall
showT the same to be insufficient, it shall be returned to the
person filing the same, without prejudice, however, to the filing
of a new petition to the same effect.
   '' If the petition shall be found to be sufficient, the clerk shall
submit the same to the council without delay, and the council
shall thereupon order and fix a date for holding the said elec-
tion, not less than forty days nor more thru fifty days from the
date of the clerk's certificate to the council that a sufficient
petition is filed. Candidates for this election shill file with the
city clerk not less than thirty-five days before the election.
   "The clerk shall mail to each loter a sample ballot and a
separate printed copy of the statement of the proponents and
of the answer, if any, of the councilman sought to be recalled.
If the recall of more than one councilman is sought, the state-
ment and answer for each shall be printed together and shall be
clearly distinguished from those of any other councilman.
   "There shall be printed on the recall ballot, as to each coun-
cilman whose recall is to be voted on, the question: 'Shall
 (name of person) be recalled from the office of councilman?'
followed by the words 'yes' and 'no'. IC a majority of those
voting on any question vol^d in favor of the removal of an
incumbent, he shall be deemed removed from office upon the
qualification of his successor.
   " O n the recall ballot, under each question, there shall be
printed the names of thow persons who have been nominated
in the manner provided herein as candidates to succeed the
incumbent if he is recalled. No vote east shall be counted for
any candidate for the office unless the vot^r also voted on the
question of the recall of the person sought to be recalled from
that office. The name of Hie person against whom the petition
is filed shall not appear on the ballot as a candidate for the
office. If the vote recalls the councilman, the candidate who has
received the highest number of votes for 1hc office shall b?
declared elected for the unexpired term of the former incum-
bent. If the person who received the highest number of votes
fails to qualify within ten days after receiving the certificate
of election, the office shall become vacant. Said emotion shall be
conducted, returned, and the results thereof declared, in all
respects as arc all other municipal elections; provided, that if
there be any conflict of provisions this charter shau control."
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the seal of the City of Palo Alto to be affixed hereto this
22 day of May 1969.
                             EDWARD S. ARNOLD
   (SEAL)                    Mayor of the City of Palo Alto
                             JACQUELINE C.    KWMM
                             City Clerk of the City of Palo Alto
and
3888                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. Ch. 224

   WHEREAS, The said proposed amendments as ratified as here-
inbefore set forth have been and now are duly presented and
submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for ap-
proval or rejection, as a whole, without power of alteration or
amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected io each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That said amendments to the Charter of the City of Palo Alto
as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by, the electors of said
city, as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and the same are hereby
approved as a whole without amendment or alteration for and
as amendments to and as a part of the Charter of the City of
Palo Alto.

                KESOLUTION CHAPTER 224
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 17—Relative to the
               California Law Revision Commission.
              [Filed with Secretary of State June 27, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Section 10335 of the Government Code provides
that the approval of the Legislature, by concurrent resolution,
is required in order for the California Law Revision Commis-
sion to undertake and carry forward studies; and
   WHEREAS, The commission in its annual report covering its
activities for 1968 describes three new topics which the Legis-
lature has not previously authorized the commission to study;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature authorizes the
California Law Revision Commission to make studies of the
following topics:
   (1) Whether the law relating to counterclaims and cross-
complaints should be revised;
   (2) Whether the law relating to liquidated damages in con-
tracts and, particularly, in leases, should be revised.
   (3) Whether the law relating to joinder of causes of action
should be revised; and
   (4) Whether Civil Code Section 715.8 (rule against per-
petuities) should be revised or repealed.
   (5) Whether the law relating to the right of nonresident
aliens to inherit should be revised.
   (6) Whether the law giving preference to certain types of
actions or proceedings in setting for hearing or trial should be
revised.
                        1969
Res. Ch. 225]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3889

                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 225
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 205—Approving the char-
  ter amendments to the Charter of the City of Compton, State
  of California, ratified by the qualified electors of said city
  at a special municipal election held therein on the sixth day
  of May, 1969.
                [Filed with Secretary of State June 30, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The City of Compton, in the County of Los An-
geles, State of California, contains a population in excess of
3,500 inhabitants, and has been ever since the year 1948, and
now is organized and acting under a charter, adopted under
and by virtue of Section 8 of Article 11 of the Constitution of
the State of California, which charter was duly ratified by a
majority of the qualified electors of said city, at a special
municipal election held for that purpose on the third day of
December, 1947, and approved by the Legislature of the State
of California (Statutes 1948, page 236), and by resolution of
said Legislature filed with the Secretary of State of the State
of California, the 11th day of March, 1948, (Statutes 1948,
page 236) ; and
   "WHEREAS, Proceedings have been had for the proposal, adop-
tion and ratification of certain amendments to the Charter
of the City of Compton, as set out in the certificate of the
Mayor and the City Clerk of said City of Compton, to wit:
CERTIFICATE OF ADOPTION BY THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE
  CITY OF COMPTON AT AN ELECTION HELD ON THE 6 T H DAY
  OF MAY, ONE THOUSAND N I N E HUNDRED AND SIXTY-NINE, OF
  CERTAIN AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF
  COMPTON, STATE OF CALIFORNIA.

State of California  "I
County of Los Angeles j- ss.
City of Compton       J
  We, Chester R. Grain, Mayor of the City of Compton, and
Mrs. Doris A. Davis, City Clerk of the City of Compton, do
hereby certify as follows:
   That said City of Compton, in the County of Los Angeles,
State of California, is now and was at all the times herein
mentioned, a City containing more than Thirty-five Hundred
inhabitants and with less than 72,000 inhabitants as ascer-
tained by the last preceding census taken under the authority
of the Congress of the United States; and
   That said City of Compton is now and was at all the times
herein mentioned organized and existing under a Charter,
adopted under the provisions of Section Eight, of Article
Eleven of the Constitution of the State of California, which
Charter was duly ratified by a majority of the electors of said
City at a special municipal election held therein on the 3rd
3890               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           rRps_ C h .   225



  day of December, 1917. and approved by the Legislature of
  the State of California (Statutes of 1948, page 236), and by
  resolution of said Legislature filed with the Secretary cf State
  of the State of California, on the 11th day of March, 1948
  V Statutes 1948, page 236) ; and
    Pursuant to the provisions of Section Bight of Article
 Eleven of the Constitution of the State of California, the
  Legislative Bodv of said City, namely: The City Council of the
 said City, did on its own motion and pursuant to the provi-
 sions of Section Bight, of Article Eleven of the Constitution
 of the State of California, duly propose to the electors of said
  City of Compton certain amendments to the Charter of said
 City; and ordered that said amendments be submitted to said
 electors of said City at the Primary Nominating Election to
  be held in said City on the 6th day of May, 1969; and
    That said proposed amendments were, on the 23rd day of
 Mar oh, 1969 duly published in the "Compton Herald-Ameri-
 can", a newspaper of general circulation, published in the
 City of Compton, and the official newspaper of said City, and
 the newspaper designated by said City Council for that pur-
 pose, and in each edition thereof;
    That said proposed amendments were duly and legally
 printed in convenient pamphlet form and, at and during the
 time and in the manner provided by law, a notice was pub-
 lished in said ''Compton Herald-American" that such copies
 of said proposed amendments could be had upon application
 thci\for m 1he office of (he City Clerk of said City, and said
proposed amendments so printed in convenient pamphlet form
 were duly and legally distributed in the manner provided by
 law; and
    That said City Council did, by Ordinance designated as
 Ordinance No. 1339, which was duly adopted on the 18th day
 of March 1969, provide for 1he submission to the electors
of said City of the charter amendments at the City Primary
Nominating Election on May 6, 1969, which date was more
than forty (40) and less than sixty (60) days after the com-
pletion of the publication of said proposed amendments to the
 Charter of the City of Compton, as aforesaid; and
    That said primary nominating election was held in said City
on said 6th day of May, 1969, which date was more than forty
 (40) and less than sixty (60) days after said proposed amend-
ments to said Charter had been published in said "Compton
Herald-American'', as aforesaid; and
    That at said primary nominating election held as aforesaid,
on said 6th day of May, 1969. a majority of the voters voted
in favor of said proposed amendments to the Charter of the
City of Compton, and duly r a i d e d the same; and
    That the City Council of the City of Compton after duly
canvassing the returns of said primary nominating election at
the time and in the manner and form prescribed by law, duly
found, determined and declared that a majority of the quali-
                     1969
Res. Oh. 225]               REGULAR SESSION                  3891
tied voters voting thereon, had voted in favor of and ratified
said proposed amendments to the Charter of the City of
Ccmpton, which amendments are in words and figures as fol-
lows, to wit:
                  Charter Amendment No. 1:
   ''Section 1106. Appointments. Upon the receipt of notice
of a vacancy in the Classified Service, the clerk of the Person-
nel Board shall certify to the appointing power 1he names of
the three highest candidates on the eligible list for such posi-
tion. No candidate may bo certified more than three times for
any one classified position.
   "The Personnel Board, with the consent of the appointing
power, may authorize the certification of less than three names
for appointment in the event there remains less than three
names on an eligible list and in the opinion of the Personnel
Board conditions warrant such action. When no eligible lists
are available, the Personnel Board, under such rules and regu-
lations as it shall prescribe, may authorize th^ appointing
power to make temporary appointments in the Classified Serv-
ice, in order to prevent the stoppage of public business and in
order to meet extraordinary conditions, which appointments
shall remain in force until regular appointments can be made,
but in no case to exceed ninety (90) days in any Calendar
year.
   " I f sufficient number of applicants for a position in the
Classified Service is not received, after advertising therefor
has been completed in conformity with this Charter and Rules
and Regulations adopted hereunder, the Personnel Board may
authorize an examination to proceed as to a lesser number of
qualified applicants.
   "All original appointments shall be for a probationary
period of one year during which the employee may be re-
jected at any time without right of appeal or hearing in any
manner.
   "All promotional appointments shall be for a probationary
period of six months during which time the employee may be
rejected at any time without right of appeal or hearing in
any manner. An employee rejected during the probationary
period from a position to which he has been promoted, shall
be reinstated to the position from which he was promoted, un-
less charges are filed and he is discharged as provided in this
Charter and the rules.''

                  Charter Amendment No. 2:
   "Section 1409. Contracts on Public Works. Every con-
tract involving an expenditure of more than Seven Thousand
Five Hundred ($7,500.00) Dollars for the construction or im-
provement (excluding maintenance and repair) of public build
ings, works, streets, drains, sewers, utilities, parks and play-
grounds shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder after notice
3892               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [EeS. Ch. 225

by publication in the official newspaper by one or more in-
sertions, the first of which shall be at least ten days before the
time for opening bids.
   " T h e City Council may reject any and all bids presented
and may readvertise in its discretion.
   " T h e City Council, without advertising for bids, or after
rejecting bids, or if no bids are received, may declare and
determine that, in its opinion, the work in question may be
performed better or more economically by the City with its
own employees and after the adoption of a resolution to this
effect by at least four affirmative votes, it may proceed to have
the said work done in this manner stated without further
observance of the provisions of this section. Such contracts
likewise may be let without advertising for bids, if such work
shall be deemed by the City Council to be of urgent necessity
for the preservation of life, health or property, and shall be
authorized by motion passed by at least four affirmative votes
and containing a declaration of the facts constituting such
urgency.''
                    Charter Amendment No. 3 :
  '' The Charter of the City of Compton is hereby amended by
deleting Section 1412 of said Charter.''

                   Charter Amendment No. 4 :
     '' Section 500. Enumeration of and Term. The elective of-
 ficers of the City shall consist of:
     " A City Council composed of five (5) members, four to be
residents of their respective districts and nominated and
elected from the City at large. The fifth to be both nominated
and elected from the City at large and to be known as the
Mayor;
    " A Board of Education composed of five (5) members;
    " A City Clerk;
    " A City Treasurer; and
    " A City Attorney.
    " A l l of the elective officers, with the exception of the mem-
bers of the Board of Education, shall serve for a term of four
years. The terms of office of the members of the City Council
residing in districts two and three, and the terms of office of
the Mayor, City Clerk, City Treasurer and City Attorney
elected in 1969 shall expire in the year 1973. The terms of
office of the present members of the City Council residing in
districts one and four shall expire in the year 1971.
    ' ' The terms of all elective officers other than members of the
Board of Education shall commence on July first following
their election and each shall serve until his successor is elected
and qualified. Any ties in voting shall be settled by the casting
of lots.
    ' ' Provided however, that the City Council, on and after the
operative date (as the term "operative d a t e " is hereafter
                     1969
Res. Ch. 225]               REGTJLAK SESSION                  3893

defined) shall be composed of seven members, six to be resi-
dents of their respective districts and nominated and elected
from the City at large and the seventh to be both nominated
and elected from the City at large and to be known as the
Mayor.
   " A t any time when the City Council finds by ordinance
adopted by not less than four affirmative votes that the popu-
lation of the City exceeds 100,000 persons, the City Council
shall thereupon, and within sixty days after the effective date
of such ordinance, adopt an ordinance by at least three affirm-
ative votes dividing the City into six districts for the purpose
of electing members of the Council.
    '' Said districts so revised and fixed shall comprise as nearly
as practicable equal numbers of voters as determined by the
records of the registration of voters of Los Angeles County on
file with the Registrar of Voters of said County and be com-
posed of contiguous and compact territory and bounded by
natural boundaries or street lines.
    ' ' The ordinance shall provide for districts so that each Coun-
cilman then in office will reside within the district bearing the
number of the district from which he was elected and district
five and district six shall not include the residence of any of
the members of the Council except that either such district may
include the residence of the Mayor.
    '' Within thirty days after the effective date of the ordinance
establishing six council districts the Council shall, in the man-
ner provided by law, call a special election for the purpose of
holding an election for a councilman from district five and a
councilman from district six. If any candidate receives a ma-
jority for either of such offices, the City Council shall declare
such candidate, or candidates (as the case may be) elected. If
no candidate for either or both of such offices receives a ma-
jority, a final election shall be held on the fourth Tuesday
following said election between the two candidates receiving
 the highest vote in the first election for each or either of said
 offices. Following said second election, the City Council shall
 declare the candidate receiving the highest vote for each or
 either of said offices elected.
     "Such elections, including the nominations, notice, canvass
 and other proceedings, shall follow as near as may be prac-
 ticable the procedures for election of councilmen in primary
 nominating elections and general municipal elections. The
 Council may provide procedures for such elections by ordi-
 nance.
     ' ' When the Council has declared a candidate elected for dis-
 trict five and a candidate elected for district six, the provisions
 for a seven member City Council shall become operative at
 12:01 a.m. on the seventh day after such declaration or if can-
 didates are declared elected in the two districts at different
 times, at 12:01 a.m. on the seventh day after the last such
 declaration. Such seventh day is herein defined as the oper-
 ative date.
 3894                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 225

      " T h e councilman elected in the first instance from district
 live shall serve a t e r m t h a t shall commence on the operative
  date a n d shall end at the same time t h a t the t e r m of the coun-
 cilman from district <mo ends. The councilman elected i n the
 first instance from district six shall serve a t e r m t h a t shall
 commence on the operative date a n d end at the same time as
 the t e r m of the councilman from district two ends.
      " C o u n c i l m e n thereafter elected from districts five a n d six
 shall serve for a t e r m of four years.
      " O n a n d after the operative date, the City shall be divided
 into six districts n o t w i t h s t a n d i n g the provisions of Section
 501 of this Charter.
      " N o t w i t L s + a n d m g the provisions of Section 502 of this
 Charter, on a n d after the operative date, the City Council
 m a y change the bound TK-S of the six districts into which the
 City has been d h k W l bj ordinance adopted by at least five
 affumati\e voles whenever in the opinion of the City Council,
 such is n e t e s ; ry ii be j er equalize the populaiion among the
 vespce+i ve d.s+ricti
      " O r a n d pf'hu' the operative date whenever the provisions
 of this Obar + er e. II for three affirmative votes or the concur-
 rence of T hrce mem'x'rs of the City Council, or otherwise pro-
 vide for an action to be taken by tluvo members of the City
 Council, such prov ision shall be construed to require four af-
f r i n a t i v e \otes, oe the concurrence of four members of the
 City Ccunc'1, or elhc-rvuse provide for an action to be taken
by four ni'mboi.- of I he Ci + y Council.
     " O n a n d a t i e r th A operative dale whenever the provisions
of this Cbari'-r call for f 'Ur affirmative votes, or the concur-
rence cf four Bi°mb rs of the City Council, or otherwise pro-
vide for an f e t k n io b " taken by four members of the City
Council, such provision shall be construed to require six af-
firmative votes ui the concurrence of six members of the City
Cnincil, or olherwis" provide i'vr an action to 1 e t a k e n by six
members oC the C h y Council.
    " X o t w i t h s t a idii a I k ' provisions of Section 502 of this
Charter, on and after the operative date a person shall be
deemed to h i v j \.y n i n vde>:t of the Ci1y or a district for one
year preceding an okv"5 'en if he has resided for a period of one
year at a place which is, at the time of the election, within the
( V v or T1IQ d k l r i c h "

                     CI a r t e r A m e n d m e n t No. 5 :
   " S e c t i o n 504  Compensation of Members of the City Coun-
cil V a r i o u s Bo„,rd a n d Commissions. The members of the
City Council rhaii receive reimbursement for necessary travel-
ing and other expenses when on official d u t y out of the City
on order of the City Council. I n addition, members of the City
Council, except tl e Mayor, shall receive a salary of $300.00
per m o n t h , a n d the Mpyor a salary of «$400.00 per month.
                    196
Res. Ch. 2251             °   REGULAR SESSION               3895

   "Other Elective Officers. The other elective officers, except-
ing the members of the Board of Education, shall severally
receive at stated times a compensation for their services in
their respective capacities to be fixed by ordinance adopted
by the City Council, which compensation for such services
shall not he increased or diminished as to any such officer after
his election or appointment and during his term of office, nor
within thirty days prior to the date when nomination papers
for the position may be filled."
   "Section 900. Members and Terms. The Board of Educa-
tion of the Compton School District shall consist of five mem-
bers elected from the District at large and who shall serve
for a term of four years. The provisions of the Education Code
of the State of California governing elections of boards of
trustees, as they now exist or may hereafter be amended, shall
govern elections of members of the Board of Education, ex-
cept as otherwise herein provided. Elections shall be held bi-
ennially in the odd numbered years.
   "The members of the Board of Education holding offices
when this Charter takes effect shall continue in office there-
after until their respective terms of office shall expire and
until their successors shall be elected and qualified. At each
biennial election three members of the Board shall be elected.
The two receiving the highest number of votes being elected
to terms of four years each and the third to a two-year term,
   '' The members of the Board of Education shall each be paid
Twenty Dollars ($20.00) for each meeting attended but not
to exceed two (2) meetings in each month."
   "Section 1005. Compensation. Vacancies. That the mem-
bers of the Planning Commission shall be paid One Hundred-
Fifty ($150.00) Dollars per month. That the members of the
Personnel Board and the Recreation and Parks Commission
shall be paid Twenty ($20.00) Dollars for each meeting at-
tended but not exceeding two (2) meetings in each month.
   " A n y vacancies in any board or commission from whatever
cause arising, shall be filled by appointment by the City Coun-
cil. If a member of a board or commission absents himself from
all regular meetings of such board or commission, for a period
of sixty (60) days, consecutively (from and after the last
regular meeting of such board or commission attended by such
member) unless by permission of the City Council, expressed
in its official minutes, or is convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude, or ceases to be a qualified elector of the City,
his office shall become vacant and shall be so declared by the
City Council."
   That the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of said
proposed amendments to the Charter of the City of Compton,
ratified by the electors of said City, as aforesaid, on file in
the office of the City Clerk of the said City of Compton.
   In witness whereof, Chester R. Grain, Mayor, as aforesaid,
laid Mrs. Doris A. Davis, City Clerk, as aforesaid, have here-
3896                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Rgg Qh. 226

unto set their hands and caused the corporate seal of the City
of Compton to be thereunto duly affixed, on this 10th day of
June, 1969.
                            CHESTER R. CRAIN
   (SEAL)                   Mayor of the City of Compton
                            MRS. DORIS A. DAVIS
                            City Clerk of the City of Compton
                            by ELEANOR A. CINCOTTA
                            Deputy
and
   WHEREAS, Said proposed amendments to the Charter of the
City of Compton, ratified by the electors of said city, as afore-
said, have been submitted to the Legislature of the State of
California for approval or rejection, without alteration or
amendment in accordance with Section 8 of Article 11 of the
Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor, and concurring therein,
That said proposed charter amendments of the City of Comp-
ton, ratified by the electors of said city as aforesaid, as pre-
sented to, adopted and ratified by the qualified electors of
said City of Compton, be and the same are hereby approved
as a whole, without amendment or alteration, as the amend-
ments to the Charter of the City of Compton, and as a part
of said Charter of the City of Compton.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 226
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 144—Relative
             to opinions of the Legislative Counsel.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 30, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That whenever the Legislative
Counsel issues an opinion concerning any particular executive
reorganization plan submitted to the Legislature pursuant to
Article 7.5 (commencing with Section 12080), Chapter 1, Part
2, Division 3, Title 2 of the Government Code, he is author-
ized and instructed to deliver two copies of the opinion to the
chairman of each standing committee to which such plan is
assigned.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 227
            Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 197—
                 Relative to Bill of Rights Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State June 30, 1969.]
                        1969
Ees. Ch. 228]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3897

   WHEREAS, The traditional rights and freedoms we enjoy as
citizens of a great democracy are based upon the fundamental
liberties and responsibilities set forth in the Bill of Eights—
the first ten amendments to the United States Constitution;
and
   "WHEREAS, The Bill of Eights guarantees to every American
his basic rights; and
   WHEREAS, All of our citizens, regardless of race or creed,
laborer or employer, must stand firmly on the basic principles
outlined in the Bill of Eights and preserve the valued priv-
ileges guaranteed therein; and
   WHEREAS, December 15, 1969, marks the 178th anniversary
of the addition of the Bill of Eights to our Federal Constitu-
tion; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
proclaim December 14 to 20, 1969, "Bill of Eights W e e k " in
California and to call upon the people of the State of Cali-
fornia to observe such week with appropriate ceremonies and
activities; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Eonald Eeagan.


                  EESOLUTION C H A P T E E 228
  Assembly Joint Resolution No. 35—Relative to establishing
            interstate motorbus safety standards.
                [Piled with Secretary of State June 30, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The motorbus is an essential means of transporta-
tion today in interstate commerce and in many cases is the only
means of local transportation; and
   WHEREAS, The design and construction of motorbuses are
engaged in by only a few very large corporations, necessitating
sale in interstate commerce; and
   WHEREAS, In California alone over the past year there have
been 59 accidents in which one or more motorbus passengers
have been killed, the March 7, 1968, catastrophe in Baker re-
sulting in 20 fatalities alone, and 1,984 accidents involving
motorbuses in which passengers were injured; and
   WHEREAS, On January 11, 1969, a chartered motorbus carry-
ing 37 children from Orinda in Contra Costa County spun out
of control on a curve on Interstate 80 just west of Sacramento
and overturned, killing one boy thrown from the bus upon
impact and injuring the driver and 31 others, many very
seriously; and
   WHEREAS, Observations and studies made by the California
Highway Patrol and the Institute of Transportation and Traf-
fic Engineering, University of California, Los Angeles,
3898               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Res Ch 229

strongly show that both fatalities and injuries may be ma-
terially and markedly reduced by introducing certain specific
requirements in the design and construction of motorbuses,
most especially in the interior design; and
   WHEREAS, Mattel's of safety exits, seat belts together with
seat design, windows popping out on impact, interior padding,
compartment anchoring, and protruding interior fixtures have
been extremely significant factors affecting fatalities and in-
juries, especially of children; and
   WHEREAS, These matters would best be resolved by the
establishment of a scheme of safety standards to which motor-
buses sold and used in interstate commerce would have to be
designed and constructed; and
   WHEREAS, California believes and the national statistics
would rppear to indicate that the entire matter of safety
standards for the construction of motorbuses used or sold in
interstate commerce is one of national concern and best estab-
lished by a comprehensive scheme of national regulation; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved Ly the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Secretary of the United States
Department of Transportation to establish national safety
standards for the design and construction of motorbuses used
or sold in interstate commerce; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Secretary of the United States
Department of Transportation, the Chairman of the National
Transportation Safety Board, to each Senator and Represent-
ative in the United States Congress from California, to the
Commissioner of the California Highway Patrol, and to the
Director of the California Department of Motor Vehicles.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 229
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 132—Relative to "Discover
                     Flying Month."
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The "Discover F l y i n g " program has been initi-
ated to demonstrate the significant role of general aviation
in the nation's transportation and communication system;
and
   WHEREAS, General aviation provides an increasingly im-
portant dimension to air transportation in the State of Cali-
fornia through excellent facilities which encourage business
and industry to locate here, and engaging the services of many
citizens in occupations which support the operations of gen-
eral aviation aircraft; and
                         1969
Kes. Ch. 2.30]                  REGULAR SESSION                  3899
   WHEREAS, The California Aeronautics Board and the Di-
vision of Aeronautics are dedicated to aviation progress
through airport development improvement, safety, and educa-
tion; and
   WHEREAS, It is in the interest of all citizens that the total
transportation capabilities of California be strengthened and
sustained through continued progress in general aviation; and
   WHEREAS, For such reasons it is desirable that citizens be
made better aware of the contributions of general aviation
to the social, economic and technical advance of the State of
California, and that they be encouraged to participate more
actively in flying as a means of continuing the further de-
velopment of general aviation as a vital resource; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members urge Governor
Keagan to designate June 1969 as "Discover Flying M o n t h " ;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and suitably prepared
copies of this resolution to the "Discover Flying Committee
Information Office" and to the California Aeronautics Board.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 230
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 141—Relative to
             ringing of hells on the Fourth of July.
                 [Filed with Secretary of State July 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, At the hour of 2 o'clock in the afternoon of the
Fourth of July 1776, the great Liberty Bell at Independence
Hall, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was loudly tolled to herald
throughout the land the signing of our Declaration of Inde-
pendence ; and
   WHEREAS, The signing and adoption of this historic docu-
ment symbolized the birth of our nation as a free and demo-
cratic state, founded in justice and equality; and
   WHEREAS, It is fitting that the anniversary of this great
event should be appropriately observed in each year at the
same moment throughout the nation; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to pro-
claim that the anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of
Independence should be observed by ringing of bells through-
out the state at the hour of 11 o'clock in the morning of the
Fourth of July and that civic and community leaders in the
state be urged to take appropriate steps to encoiirage public
participation in such observance; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.
3900               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Res. Ch. 231

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 231

       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 138—Relative
                 to commending Bob Hope.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 3, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t is with the greatest acclaim that the Members
 of the Legislature wish to laud one of California's outstand-
 ing citizens, a man held by all of us with great affection, one
 who for a generation and more has brought laughter and hap-
 piness to millions of our fellow Americans, one who is with
it with us all: Bob Hope; and
   WHEREAS, Bob, a comedian par excellence, indefatigable
peripatetic, has as much made a career of winging his way
 about this globe of ours as he has of making us laugh, for he
has chalked up some six million air miles in entertaining us,
our troops in the war zones, and, as our unofficial diplomat and
purveyor of the spirit of America, many of the diverse peo-
ples of distant lands; and
   WHEREAS, In recognition of his unselfish dedication to the
cause of peace and the devotion of his time and talents to the
task of bringing joy and humor to Americans far from home,
President John P . Kennedy presented Bob, in September 1963,
the Congressional Gold Medal, an honor he shares with but
few other great Americans; and
   WHEREAS, Though we may never know why Ponce de Leon
failed, we strongly suspect Bob got there first for his record
is incredible: he has done 53 movies so far, written 6 books,
appeared in over 1,000 radio and more than 250 TV shows to
date, received over 800 awards, been awarded 8 honorary de-
grees, entertained over 2,000,000 GI's in the United States
and at least 13 countries, has been honored by 3 presidents, re-
ceived the entertainment industry's highest honors, and even
has been known to have been invited to Bing Crosby's birth-
day party; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members commend Bob
for his superlapendous contribution to the national funnybone,
his genuine creativity, and" his empathy and affection for every
human being; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Bob Hope.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 232
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 213—Relative to
                 California Bicentennial.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 7, 1969.]
                        1969
Ees. Ch. 233]                  REGULAR SESSION                       3901

   WHEREAS, In the year 1769, after many hardships and dis-
appointments, Governor Gaspar de Portola and F r a y Junipero
Serra established California's first permanent settlement in
what now is the City of San Diego; and
   WHEREAS, In that year, Governor Portola led an expedition
up the lower Baja California coast to a point overlooking San
Diego Bay; and Father Serra established the Mission de Al-
cala, the first of the 21 missions; thus these two pioneers laid
the foundation of the route which later became El Camino
Real; and
   WHEREAS, This, then, was the beginning of civilization in
the Golden State, that is now the most populous in the Union,
glorying in achievements unparalleled in the history of man-
kind; and
   WHEREAS, I t is most fitting and proper that the present gen-
eration honor this historical milestone of the past, and express
its appreciation of the rich cultural and historical heritage of
our great state; and
   WHEREAS, The California Legislature did, on November 16,
1967, by resolution petition the Postmaster General of the
United States to issue a stamp commemorating California's
bicentennial; and
   WHEREAS, The United States recognized this achievement
and will issue a California bicentennial commemorative stamp
on July 16, 1969, in the City of San Diego; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
proclaim July 16, 1969, "California Bicentennial D a y " and to
urge all citizens of California to take cognizance of the is-
suance of the California bicentennial stamp at San Diego and
to participate appropriately in the observance of California's
200th birthday throughout 1969; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 233
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 56—Relative                  to an ap-
  propriation to the Joint Legislative Retirement               Committee.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 9, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the sum of forty thousand
dollars ($40,000) or so much thereof as may be necessary is
hereby made available from the Contingent Funds of the As-
sembly and Senate for the expenses of the Joint Legislative
Retirement Committee and its members and for any charges,
3902                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ R e s . Cll. 2 3 4

expenses or claims it may incur, to be paid from the said
fund and disbursed, after certification by the chairman of the
committee, upon warrants drawn by the State Controller upon
the State Treasurer.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 234
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 225—Relative to
            commending the American Dairy Princess.
              [Filed with Secretary of State July 10, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Miss Frances Bispo has been chosen as the 1969
American Dairy Princess; and
  WHEREAS, Miss Bispo won this distinguished honor in com-
petition with a select field of 32 candidates; and
  WHEREAS, She had previously been honored as the California
Dairy Princess for 1968-1969, and is the first California con-
testant to win this national honor; and
  WHEREAS, Upon completion of her important responsibilities
as American Dairy Princess, she will continue her education
at Merced College, where she is majoring in speech therapy;
now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members congratulate
Frances Bispo upon her election as American Dairy Princess;
and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Miss Frances
Bispo.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 235
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 183—Relative to memo-
  rializing former Assemblyman Stewart Hinckley and his
  wife, Bertha.
              [Filed with Secretary oC State July 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The California Legislature has learned of the
tragic death of its former colleague Stewart Hinckley and his
beloved wife, Bertha; and
                                  T
   WHEREAS, Stewart Hinckley w as born in Bryn Mawr, Cali-
fornia, on November 23. 1902, and attended public schools in
Redlands and graduated from Pomona College; and
   WHEREAS, He served honorably in the United States Army
during World War II as a member of the Fourth Air Force;
and
  WHEREAS, He married Bertha Craig on October 12, 1927,
and she was his loving and devoted wife for 41 years; and
                    1969
Res. Ch. 235]              REGULAR SESSION                3903
   WHEBEAS, He served first as a Member of the California As-
sembly from 1947 to 1954 and then joined the administration
of President Dwight Eisenhower as Director of the Farmers
Home Administration of the Department of Agriculture until
1961; and
   WHEBEAS, In 1962 he was again elected to office as Assembly-
man from the 73rd District and ably represented the citizens
of Redlands, the high desert area and portions of San Ber-
nardino ; and
   WHEBEAS, He brought to the Assembly a broad background
of agricultural experience and knowledge together with a
practical appreciation of the needs of business and labor and
was uniquely suited to represent the diversified interests of
the 73rd District; and
   WHEBEAS, During Stu's tenure in the Legislature he was a
member of many important committees including the Commit-
tees of Agriculture, Water, and Ways and Means, and the
Joint Committee on Fairs and Allocations; and
   WHEBEAS, His capabilities as an effective and able legislator
gained the recognition of his colleagues as witnessed by his
appointment as Chairman of the Budget Conference Commit-
tee and Chairman of the Assembly Fish and Game Committee,
and
   WHEBEAS, He was an active member of his community, an
able businessman and owner of the Hinckley Orange Grove
Company, and was for many years a prominent and beloved
leader within the citrus industry; and
   WHEBEAS, Stu and Bertha Hinckley were the loving parents
of their daughter, Nancy, and son, Stewart, and devoted to
their six grandchildren; and
   WHEREAS, Stu was an active member of the Episcopal Trin-
ity Church and a firm believer in Almighty God; and
   WHEREAS, He was an inspiring member of many flying clubs
including the Flying Farmers of California, Inc., the National
Pilots Association, and the Aircraft Owners and Pilots As-
sociation; and
   WHEREAS, He was active in many civic organizations includ-
ing the Masons, the Elks, the Native Sons of the Golden West
 and the American Legion; and
   WHEREAS, His colleagues knew Stu best as " t h e Old Gray
 Fox"—a firm and principled lawmaker who never wavered
 from his beliefs in the face of strong dissent, yet who always
 felt compassion for his fellow man; and
    WHEREAS, Less than one year ago, the California Assembly
 paid to Stewart Hinckley its highest tribute when it rendered
 warm accolades to its colleague upon his retirement after 17
 enriched years of service to his state and to the nation; and
    WHEBEAS, The California Legislature shall miss the sincerity
 and beauty of this wonderful couple, Stewart and Bertha, who
 graced us and our own families with their presence; now,
 therefore, be it
    123—1954
3904               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [lies. Ch. 236

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members pause to give
tribute to a man whose contributions to this state and to its
citizens will always serve as an inspiration to others, and to
offer their condolences to the family of Stewart and Bertha
Hinckley; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to Nancy Silber-
berger and Stewart C. Hinckley.


               EBSOLUTION CHAPTER 236
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 207—
               Relative to Safe Boating Week.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 10, 1969.]

   WHEBBAS, Pleasure boating is a form of recreation which can
be enjoyed by everyone, and more and more Californians are
discovering its benefits; and
   WHEREAS, This sport takes place in a relatively unfamiliar
environment subject to swift and sometimes violent change;
and
   WHEREAS, Boating waters of the state are limited and the
number of boats using them is increasing, resulting in high
concentrations in some areas; and
   WHEREAS, The safe operation of boats requires special under-
standing of boat handling, traffic rules, and the forces of na-
ture, and the exercise of sound judgment; and
   WHEREAS, It is the responsibility of all who engage in boat-
ing and its related activities to operate safely on our waterways
in order to preserve the enjoyable character of this majestic
sport; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Members of the Legisla-
ture of the State of California encourage all the citizens of
California using the waters of the state to increase their knowl-
edge of boating safety laws and practices, and to use such
knowledge to make a safer and more enjoyable boating en-
vironment for themselves and their fellow men; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Governor be requested to proclaim the
week commencing June 29, 1969, as Safe Boating Week; and
be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.
                         1969
Res. Ch. 238]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3905

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 237

     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 211—Relative to
                 the death of Leif Johnson.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 10, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature were deeply sad-
dened to hear of the death of Leif Johnson, noted Fullerton
civic leader and editor of the Daily News Tribune; and
   WHEREAS, Leif Johnson, newspaperman, greatly respected, a
man of sincerity, of dignity, of honor; a man of outstanding
perception and understanding, one who dedicated himself to
his newspaper, his friends, and to the people, leaves this com-
munity with a great loss, a loss most difficult to fill; and
   WHEREAS, He was a man with a strong sense of civic duty,
a man who believed in his community and worked to keep it
viable; his leadership was felt by every citizen, his advice, very
much coveted, and he was a man much honored both from
within his profession and from without; and
  WHEREAS, Leif Johnson's interests and his civic efforts var-
ied widely: Children touched him deeply and he worried about
the problems of youth; he gave much attention to the concerns
of business, to education, to politics and to government, he did
far more than his share in making his country great; now,
therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their re-
gret to the community of Fullerton, to the staff of the Daily
News Tribune, and to the family of Leif Johnson at their most
untimely loss; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the staff of the
Daily News Tribune, Fullerton, and to his widow, Alice
Johnson.

                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 238
   Assembly Joint Resolution No. 14—Relative to a national
                 cemetery at San Luis Dam.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 11, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Although the State of California is the most
populous state in the United States and correspondingly has
more veterans of the armed forces residing within the state,
there is at the present time a lack of space for the burial of
veterans in existing national cemeteries in this state; and
  WHEREAS, President Johnson has stated that " n o veterans
of the armed forces should be denied the right of burial in a
national cemetery and near his home''; and
3906               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ R e s . Ch. 239

   WHEREAS, The nearest national cemetery to California which
has space available is in the State of Oregon near the City of
Portland; and
   WHEREAS, The California Department Commanders Vet-
erans Council has unanimously agreed that a new national
cemetery should be established by the United States on exist-
ing federal land at the site of San Luis Dam near the City of
Los Banos in California; and
   WHEREAS, California fully deserves at least one new national
cemetery, and the site for such cemetery should be one agreed
to by the veterans of the state; and
   WHEREAS, Legislation has been introduced in the Congress to
establish a national cemetery at the site unanimously agreed
upon by the California Department Commanders Veterans
Council; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States
to enact legislation to establish a national cemetery on federal
land at the site of San Luis Dam near the City of Los Banos
in California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 239
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 15—Relative to local govern-
        ment participation in federal welfare programs.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 11, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Legislature of the State of California recog-
nizes that a significant number of the citizens of this state do
not fully share in the economic abundance of our nation; and
  WHEREAS, State and local government agencies in California
and many other states have demonstrated a competency and
an increasing willingness to meet the needs of the less fortu-
nate when adequate funding and community assistance are
made available; and
  WHEREAS, The trend in recent decades in this nation has
been for the increasing direction of such activities by the fed-
eral government, at times even duplicating local institutions;
and
  WHEREAS, The American traditions of community concern
and action on behalf of the less fortunate, and of self-help
within the framework of institutions closest to the people are
being diluted as a result of this trend; now, therefore, be it
                        1969
Res. Ch. 240]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3907

   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to consider carefully the redirection of all
programs designed to assist less fortunate citizens to fully
participate in the economic and cultural life of our nation
toward maximum utilization of existing state and local agen-
cies in those states which have demonstrated a willingness and
competence to manage their own affairs in the best interests of
all their citizens; and be it further
   Resolved, That such programs be supervised by the lowest
level of government capable of exercising such supervision in
the opinion of the governor of such states; and be it further
   Resolved, That every agency of government on every level
in this nation be encouraged to secure the full participation of
all American citizens, institutions, agencies, businesses and
organizations in the solving of this most important and press-
ing of American problems; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President of
the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, and to each Senator and Representative from California
in the Congress of the United States.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 240
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 217—Relative
                  to Land Surveyor Week.
                [Piled with Secretary of State July 16, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Since time immemorial, the land surveying pro-
fession has been a vital part of the civilized world; and
   WHEREAS, The land surveyors have made significant contri-
butions to the growth of California from the Gold Rush days,
when they laid out gold mines, towns, and cities, to the
present; and
   WHEREAS, The property rights of the citizens of this state
are made meaningful through the skill and dedication of
responsible land surveyors who locate, landmark, and map
property lines; and
   WHEREAS, The land surveying profession, as an organization,
adheres to a strict code of ethics, which emphasizes that a land
surveyor must place service before profit and hold public in-
terest above his own; and
   WHEREAS, In view of the importance of the land surveying
profession to this state and the nation, it is fitting and proper
that this profession be given official recognition; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State. of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature requests the
3908               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 241

Governor to proclaim the week of October 4 to 11, 1969, as
Land Surveyor Week; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 241
        Assembly Joint Resolution No. 54—Relative to
                    flood control projects.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 16, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, During the months of January and February
 1969, Fresno County and counties adjacent thereto experi-
 enced record rainfall which produced extremely severe foot-
 hill surface runoff into a number of streams which ultimately
 run through the Fresno-Clovis metropolitan area as well as
 other urban and farming areas of the County of Fresno and
 urban and agricultural areas in adjacent counties; and
    WHEREAS, Such streams are largely uncontrolled and do not
 have the capacity to hold back the surface runoff generated
 from a heavy rainfall, as the past winter has demonstrated;
 and
    WHEREAS, The January and February floods resulting from
 uncontrolled flow of noodwaters from the various foothill
 streams and tributaries into the Fresno metropolitan area,
 as well as many farming and urban communities of Fresno
 County and adjacent counties, have resulted in millions of
dollars of damage to both public and private property; and
    WHEREAS, The nature of this flooding from the foothill
surface runoff cannot be handled by planned local drainage
facilities of the Fresno Metropolitan Flood Control District
encompassing the Fresno-Clovis metropolitan area for the rea-
son that such facilities are designed strictly for local surface
runoff generated solely by urban development; and
   WHEREAS, The President of the United States has declared
Fresno County a disaster area by reason of the severity of the
flooding and the resulting damage; and
   WHEREAS, I t is necessary that dams and other facilities be
constructed upon the various foothill streams and tributaries
running into the San Joaquin Valley in order to control such
noodwaters during periods of extreme rainfall and to prevent
noodwaters from damaging the rural, urban and metropolitan
areas through which these streams and tributaries r u n ; and
   WHEREAS, The construction of dams and other facilities
upon streams and tributaries, particularly Mill Ditch, Fancher
Creek, Dog Creek, Pup Creek, Dry Creek, Redbank Creek,
Mud Creek, Holland Creek and others, more particularly
known collectively as San Joaquin-Kings River Interstream
Group, will require coordination, administering and financing
                     1969
Res. Ch. 242]               REGULAR SESSION                  3909

of studies and the design and construction of dams and facili-
ties exceeding the financial and administrative capabilities of
the many rural, urban and metropolitan areas involved; and
   "WHEREAS, The United States, particularly through the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, has the means and ability to assist
in the study, design and construction of necessary dams and
facilities to prevent future disastrous floods of the kind which
have been experienced in the past, particularly during the
months of January and February 1969; and
   WHEREAS, It is necessary that immediate steps be taken to
secure the necessary Congressional appropriations required in
order to permit the Corps of Army Engineers to undertake a
study of this problem and the facilities which will be required
in order to prevent further disastrous floods in the future; and
   WHEREAS, It is desired that this study in particular be
immediately made with reference to the foothill area between
the San Joaquin River and the Kings River; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to make an appropriation for the purpose
of allowing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to make an
immediate study of the foothill area between the Kings River
and the San Joaquin River, which study will include the need
for flood control projects on Mill Ditch, Fancher Creek, Dog
Creek, Pup Creek, Dry Creek, Redbank Creek, Mud Creek,
Holland Creek and others, more particularly known collec-
tively as the San Joaquin-Kings River Interstream Group,
together with the dams and flood control facilities required,
the design criteria therefor, and the cost of these facilities;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, to each Senator and Representative from California
in the Congress of the United States, to the Bureau of Recla-
mation, and to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 242
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 79—Relative to
              the 1976-Summer Olympic Games.
            [Filed with Secretary of State July 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The City of Los Angeles has been selected as the
official entry for the United States in its bid for the 1976
Summer Olympic Games; and
3910               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA               [Res. Ch.   243

   "WHEREAS, 1976 is a particularly significant year to bring the
Summer Olympic Games to the United States since it will mark
the 200th anniversary of the founding of our country; and
   WHEREAS, If the United States is successful in its bid for this
monumental event, the fact that it is to be held in the largest
city in California will bring great honor and benefit to the
entire state; and
   "WHEREAS, The Legislature by the passage of Senate Con-
current Resolution No. 27 during the 1968 Regular Session,
has joined the City of Los Angeles and the County of Los
Angeles in pledging support of this event; and
   WHEREAS, The International Olympic Committee has re-
cently inspected available facilities and sites in the City of
Los Angeles, and will be making its final selection when it
meets in Amsterdam, Holland; and
   WHEREAS, Selection of the United States as the site for the
1976 Summer Olympic Games will be encouraged by the fact
that substantial financial support has been pledged toward
assuring that the high level of success that the Olympic Games
have enjoyed in the past will be maintained; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members do hereby reaf-
firm their support of the 1976 Summer Olympic Games if the
City of Los Angeles is the final chosen site; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the International Olympic Committee.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 243
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 131—Relative to
               commending City of Los Alamitos.
            [Filed with Secretary of State July 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Brigadier General Jose Figueroa was Governor
of Alta California from January 1833 until his death at the
age of 43 in Monterey in September 1835; and
   WHEREAS, Governor Figueroa is considered by historians to
be the best Mexican Governor ever sent to rule California; and
   WHEREAS, He brought to the country a military reputation,
considerable experience, good administrative abilities, and
great skill in the arts by which personal popularity is ac-
quired; and
   WHEREAS, He did good work in organizing territorial and
local government, and was liberal in the matter of land grants
and in his policy toward foreigners; and
   WHEREAS, Governor Figueroa confirmed in 1834 a grant of
six leagues in the Los Angeles District to Juan J. Nieto to be
known as Rancho Los Alamitos, and in 1835 purchased for
himself the rancho for the sum of $500; and
                         1969
Res. Ch. 244]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3911

   "WHEREAS, The Alta California Territorial Legislature in
October 1835 passed resolutions providing for the hanging of
a portrait of Governor Figueroa in the legislative hall at
Monterey with the inscription "Benefactor of the Territory
of Alta California" and for the erecting of a suitable monu-
ment in Monterey; and
   WHEREAS, The resolutions of the Territorial Legislature
were never carried out because of a lack of public money made
available for those purposes, and the matter died for all time;
and
   WHEREAS, Rancho Los Alamitos has since become the City
of Los Alamitos, which will be celebrating the bicentennial of
the State of California from October 16-19, 1969; and
   WHEREAS, The Los Alamitos Chamber of Commerce has
commissioned an artist to paint the portrait of Governor
Figueroa voted in 1835 by the Alta California Territorial
Legislature; and
   WHEREAS, The portrait of Governor Figueroa will be pre-
sented to the City of Los Alamitos during the bicentennial
celebration for hanging in the city council chambers; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring. That the members commend the
citizens of the City of Los Alamitos for redressing the 134
years of neglect occasioned to the memory of Governor Jose
Figueroa of Alta California, and commend the hanging of the
portrait of Governor Figueroa in the city's legislative hall;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to the Mayor of the City
of Los Alamitos.

                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 244
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 135—Relative to proclaiming
  the week of August 26 through September 1 as Archery
  Week in California.
                [Piled with Secretary of State July 17, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Archery has steadily grown in popularity and
recognition as a competitive sport and will become a gold
medal event in the 1972 summer Olympic Games; and
  WHEREAS, The extent of the widespread interest in archery
is indicated by its establishment as a major intercollegiate
sport throughout the country; and
   WHEREAS, The National Field Archery Association, with
some 40,000 members, has become the leader in promoting the
advancement of competitive archery; and
  WHEREAS, The association has established a youth scholar-
ship program solely supported by archers of the nation which
3912                STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                [Res. Ch. 245

provides financial assistance to qualified young archers who
are in need of such aid to attain a college education; and
   WHEEEAS, United States Senate Joint Eesolution No. 85
which would designate the week of August 26 through Sep-
tember 1, 1969, as "National Archery Week" is now before
the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
and the association is sponsoring a nationwide program of
activities for the period; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim the week of August 26 through September
1, 1969, as Archery "Week in California in recognition of the
development of archery as a major sport and of the many
worthy activities of the National Field Archery Association in
this state and throughout the country; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy of this resolution to the National Field Archery Associa-
tion.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 245
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 137—Relative to
         commending Ray E. Williams upon his retirement.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 17, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, It has come to the attention of the members that
Ray E. Williams, County Treasurer of San Bernardino County
for the past 26 years, will soon retire; and
   WHEREAS, Ray E. Williams was born in Redlands, Cali-
fornia, graduated from Redlands High School and San Diego
Army and Navy Academy, and attended the School of Archi-
tecture, University of Washington, Seattle; and
  WHEREAS, He and his wife, Dorothy, have a son and a daugh-
ter, both graduates of the University of Redlands and public
school teachers, and two granddaughters; and
  WHEREAS, Williams was at one time an orange grower in
Rialto, was employed by Los Angeles County in the Forestry
Department, and later by the Pioneer Title Insurance & Trust
Company, before joining the county treasurer's office in 1929;
and
  WHEREAS, He started his term as county treasurer by ap-
pointment of the board of supervisors on April 23, 1943, and
had been reelected each term since then without opposition;
and
  WHEREAS, He is a past president of the California State
Association of County Treasurers, the Exchange Club of San
Bernardino, the County of San Bernardino Elective Depart-
ment Heads, the University of Washington Architects Frater-
nity "Atelier," and the Redlands Pictorialist; and
                     1969
Kes. Ch. 246]               REGULAR SESSION                  3913
   WHEREAS, He is a member of the San Bernardino County
Employees' Retirement Board, the Past Presidents Club of the
Exchange Club of San Bernardino, the Native Sons Lodge,
the Municipal Finance Officers Assocation, and the State As-
sociation of Retirement Administrators; and
   WHEREAS, He is a former member of the Redlands Y.M.C.A.
Board of Directors, the Seattle National Guard, the Redlands
Elks Club, and the State Association of County Treasurers'
Legislative and Executive Committee; and
   WHEREAS, He is a past secretary of the Exchange Club
of San Bernardino and the Delta Upsilon Fraternity, Uni-
versity of Washington, a past treasurer of the San Bernardino
Eagles Lodge, and a former winner of the Exchange Club
Fred Duffy Award; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members heartily com-
mend Ray E. Williams for his many years of devoted serv-
ice, and extend their best wishes upon his retirement; and be
it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Ray E. Williams.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 246
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 142—Relative to the ap-
  proval of those certain amendments to the Charter of the
  City of Alhambra ratified by the qualified electors of said
  city at a special municipal election held thereon, consolidated
  with the general municipal election, on the third day of
  June, 1969.
            [Filed with Secretary of State July 17, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption and ratification of those certain amendments to
the Charter of the City of Alhambra, a municipal corporation
of the County of Los Angeles, as hereinafter set forth in the
certificate of the Mayor and the City Clerk of the City of
Alhambra, as follows, to wit:

   CERTIFICATE OP RATIFICATION BY ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF
     ALHAMBRA OF THOSE CERTAIN CHARTER AMENDMENTS

State of California         1
County of Los Angeles        [ ss.
City of Alhambra            J

   We, the undersigned, Warren D. Williams, Mayor of the
City of Alhambra, and Dorothy McKusick, City Clerk and ex-
offieio Clerk of the Alhambra City Council, do hereby certify
and declare as follows:
3914               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 246

   The City of Alhambra, a Municipal corporation of the
County of Los Angeles, State of California, now is and at all
times herein mentioned was a City containing a population
greater than 60,000 inhabitants, and ever since the year 1915
has been and now is organized, existing and acting under a
Freeholders' Charter adopted under and by virtue of Section
8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California,
which Charter was duly ratified by a majority of the qualified
electors of said City at a Special Election held for that purpose
on the 14th day of October, 1914, and approved and ratified by
the Legislature of the State of California by Concurrent
Resolution No. 14 thereof, introduced by Senator Newton W.
Thompson on January 26, 1915, and approved by the Legisla-
ture of the State of California on January 28, 1915. (Statutes
 1915, p. 1740).
   The City Council of said City, being its legislative body, on
its own motion, and pursuant to the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, by
 Resolution No. R69-67, adopted on the 1st day of April, 1969,
 duly proposed to the qualified electors of the City of Alhambra
those certain Amendments to the Charter of said City, desig-
nated as Proposed Charter Amendment No. 1 and Proposed
 Charter Amendment No. 2, and ordered said Charter Amend-
ments to be submitted to said qualified electors at the Special
Municipal Election to be held thereon, consolidated with a
 General Municipal Election, on the 3rd day of June, 1969.
 Said proposed Amendments were on April 8, 1969, published
and advertised in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of
the Constitution of the State of California, in the "Post-
Advocate", being a daily newspaper of general circulation
printed, published and circulated in said City, and being the
official newspaper of said City.
   Said proposed Amendments were duly and regularly printed
in convenient form and at and during the time and in the
manner provided by law a notice was published in said Post-
Advocate that such copies of said proposed Amendments could
be had upon application therefor in the office of the City Clerk
of said City, and said proposed Amendments, so printed in
convenient form, were duly and regularly distributed in the
manner provided by law.
   Said City Council did by Ordinances Nos. 069-3440 and
069-3441 order the holding of a General and Special Municipal
Election in said City of Alhambra on June 3, 1969, for the
purpose of submitting to a vote the said proposed Charter
Amendments, and which date of said election was not less than
forty days nor more than sixty days after the completion of
the publication of the said proposed Charter Amendments, as
aforesaid. Pursuant to said Charter, resolution and ordinances,
the said proposed Amendments were submitted to the qualified
electors of said City for their ratification on said June 3, 1969,
and at said election, a majority of the qualified electors voting
                     1969
Res. Ch. 246]               REGULAR SESSION                   3913

thereon voted for the ratification of and did ratify Proposed
Amendment No. 1 and Proposed Amendment No. 2 of the
Charter of said City.
   The City Council of the City of Alhambra, in accordance
with the law in such cases made and provided, did meet on the
9th day of June, 1969, at a regular meeting of such City
Council and duly canvassed the returns of said election and
duly found, determined and declared that the said Proposed
Amendment No. 1 and the Proposed Amendment No. 2 of the
Charter of the City of Alhambra were ratified by a majority of
the electors of said City voting thereon.
   Said Amendments to the Charter so ratified by the electors
of the City of Alhambra are in words and figures as follows,
to wit:
              Proposed Charter Amendment No. 1
     (Amends Sections 129 and 129a of Article XVIII, and
              adds Section 129b to Article X V I I I )

   "Section 129. In addition to the taxes otherwise herein
authorized to be levied and collected, the council shall have
the power to levy and collect taxes sufficient to pay the interest
and maintain the sinking fund of the bonded indebtedness of
the city."
   "Section 129a. I n addition to the taxes otherwise herein
authorized to be levied and collected, the council shall have
the power to levy and collect taxes to provide a fund not to
exceed eighteen cents on each one hundred dollars of the as-
sessed valuation for the acquisition, maintenance and improve-
ment of public parks, playgrounds and recreation centers and
the establishment, maintenance and support of a public recre-
ation program in parks and public playgrounds.''
   "Section 129b. In addition to the taxes otherwise herein
authorized to be levied and collected, the council shall have the
power to levy and collect taxes to provide a fund not to exceed
thirty cents on each one hundred dollars of the assessed valua-
tion for the maintenance and support of the public library."

             Proposed Charter Amendment No. 2
           (Amends Section 192b of Article XXIVa)

   "Section 192b. A department of civil service is hereby
created to be under the control and management of a commis-
sion of five members, which said commission shall be known
and designated as the civil service commission. The members
of said commission shall serve without compensation. Such
commission shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the ap-
proval thereof by the council.
   " A l l references in this Charter to the board of civil service
trustees shall be deemed to mean and refer to the civil service
commission.
3916               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 246

   " T h e civil service commission shall, from time to time,
so classify its members that three of their number shall go out
of office August 1st of one year and two of their number shall
go out of office August 1st two years later and otherwise their
term of office shall be for four years. They shall organize by
electing one of their number president and some suitable per-
son as secretary who shall act and hold office at the pleasure
of the commission.
   '' Said commission shall keep a record of its proceedings and
transactions, and shall provide rules and regulations for the
keeping of service records of city employees and for the classi-
fication of such employees."
   We have compared the foregoing amendments with the
original proposals submitting the same to the electors of said
City and find that the foregoing are full, true, correct and
exact copies thereof; we further certify that the facts set forth
in the preambles preceding such amendments to such Charter
are true.
   As to the said amendments, this certificate shall be taken as
a full and complete certification as to the regularity of all
proceedings had and done in connection therewith.
   In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the corporate seal of the City of Alhambra to be affixed
hereto this 10th day of June, 1969.

                               WAEREN D. WILLIAMS
   (SEAL)                      Mayor of the City of Alhambra
                              DOROTHY MCKTJSICK
                               City Clerk and ex-officio Clerk
                                 of the City Council of the
                                 City of Alhambra
and
   WHEBBAS, The said proposed charter amendments, as ratified
as hereinbefore set forth, have been and now are duly pre-
sented and submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection as a whole, without power of
alteration, in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the
Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the aforementioned amendments to the Charter of the
City of Alhambra as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by,
the electors of said city, as hereinbefore fully set forth, be and
the same are hereby approved as a whole, without amendment
or alteration, for and as amendments to and as part of the
Charter of the City of Alhambra.
                        1969
Res. Ch. 248]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3917
                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 247
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 147—Relative to
                 "Junior Bowling Month."
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 22, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The fifth annual State Junior Championships
Tournament of the California State Junior Bowling Associa-
tion will be held during the month of July in the San Fran-
cisco-Peninsula area; and
   WHEREAS, The California State Junior Bowling Association
was organized in 1963 and is eosponsored by the Woman's
International Bowling Congress and the American Bowling
Congress and is under the management of the American Junior
Bowling Congress, which has a national membership of over
456,000; and
   WHEREAS, California, with over 45,000 members, ranks
second among the states who are members of the American
Junior Bowling Congress, and some 5,000 members will attend
the State Junior Championships Tournament; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature hereby re-
quests the Governer to proclaim the month of July as " J u n i o r
Bowling Month" in California and commends the dedicated
men and women throughout the state who have made the out-
standing program of the California State Junior Bowling
Association a success; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor and suitably prepared copies
to the California State Junior Bowling Association; and to
Mr. H. H. Hoff, President; Mr. Lee Barlowe, Vice President;
Mrs. May Bailey, Secretary-Treasurer; and Mr. Frank J. Hel-
bing, Chairman of the Publicity Committee, of the California
State Junior Bowling Association.


                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 248
         Assembly Joint Resolution No. 57—Relative to
                   community     development.
                [Piled with Secretary of State July 23, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, In 1968 the California Legislature enacted into
law as Chapter 1392 of the Statutes of 1968 Assembly Bill No.
115, introduced by Assemblyman Robert T. Monagan; and
   WHEREAS, Such Chapter 1392 establishes a program to make
it possible for residents of substandard and deteriorated hous-
ing areas to form renewal area agencies in their neighborhoods,
issue tax-exempt bonds, and, by working cooperatively with
3918                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 249

local governments, plan, finance, and carry out necessary re-
habilitation or rebuilding in the renewal areas; and
   WHEREAS, Such program will alleviate some of the economic
forces which tend to drive low-income residents out of their
neighborhoods; and
   WHEREAS, Congressman William S. Mailliard has introduced
H E 11596 before the Congress of the United States, which
bill, if enacted, will authorize the extension of federal mortgage
guarantee to bonds of a type issued under the program estab-
lished under Assemblyman Monagan's bill; and
   WHEREAS, Such mortgage guarantee is urgently needed to
expedite the rebuilding and rehabilitation of neighborhoods
under renewal area agency programs; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
memorializes the President and the Congress of the United
States to enact legislation to authorize the extension of federal
mortgage guarantee to bonds of a type issued under Assembly-
man Monagan's bill; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, to the Departments of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment and Health, Education, and Welfare, to the Chairman
of the House Banking and Currency Committee, and to each
Senator and Representative from California in the Congress of
the United States.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 249
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 121—Relative to establishing
  nonstop passenger air service between   Hollywood-Burbank
  and Sacramento.
              [Filed with Secretary of State July 23, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Nonstop passenger air service is presently not
available between Hollywood-Burbank Airport and Sacra-
mento ; and
   WHEREAS, A large and growing population in the Hollywood-
Burbank metropolitan area is greatly in need of nonstop serv-
ice to and from Sacramento; and
   WHEREAS, Residents of the Hollywood-Burbank vicinity are
subject to the inconvenience and delays occasioned by traffic
and congestion at Los Angeles International Airport, and them-
selves add to these traffic problems while suffering the incon-
venience thereof; and
   WHEREAS, The availability of nonstop service to Sacramento
at Hollywood-Burbank Airport would substantially lessen the
present burdens on Los Angeles International Airport while
                        1969
Res. Ch. 250]                  REGULAR SESSION                   3919

providing a much-needed service and convenience to travelers;
and
   WHEREAS, There are airlines serving these two points which
stand ready to provide nonstop passenger service if such serv-
ice were to be approved by the Public Utilities Commission;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Public Utilities Commission
is requested to approve the institution of nonstop passenger
air service between Hollywood-Burbank Airport and Sacra-
mento Metropolitan Airport; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Public Utilities Commission.


                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 250
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 206—
                 Relative to Aerospace Week.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 23, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The year 1969 promises the fulfillment of the
boldest dream of mankind, to break loose the bonds of Mother
Earth and the influence of her gravity and to set foot upon
 another celestial body; and
   WHEREAS, The State of California occupies a position fore-
most in the entire nation in aerospace technology and in the
manufacture of aerospace products; and
   WHEREAS, Aerospace is one of the two largest industries
within this state, providing jobs for 640,000 citizens; and
   WHEREAS, Aerospace technology has contributed greatly to
the fields of medicine, communications, computer technology
and weather forecasting, and holds the promise of contributing
to the solution of mankind's increasing problems of air and
water pollution, transportation congestion, and urban blight;
and
   WHEREAS, It is fitting and proper that the State of Cali-
fornia take this occasion to salute the daring astronauts for
their courage and personal sacrifices in the extraterrestrial
flights carried out under the Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo
programs, and the National Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration for its vision, coordination, and planning in these
successful adventures; and
   WHEREAS, The State of California recognizes the many con-
tributions of its citizens in helping to fulfill mankind's dream
of landing on the moon, and is commemorating the aerospace
contributions of its people and industries by a spectacular
Aerospace Fair at the 1969 California State Fair and Expo-
sition; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
3920               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                      [ReS. Ch. 2 5 1

ernor to issue a proclamation designating the week of August
24 through August 30,1969, as "Aerospace Week" throughout
this state; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor and a suitably prepared
copy to the California State Fair and Exposition.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 251
       Assembly Joint Resolution No. 19—Relative to the
           New Melones Dam and Reservoir Project.
              [Filed with Secretary of State July 24, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The New Melones Dam and Reservoir Project
 on the Stanislaus River in California is presently under con-
struction by the Army Corps of Engineers; and
    WHEREAS, The New Melones Reservoir upon completion will
prevent frequent and highly damaging floods along the Stan-
 islaus River and the San Joaquin River which cause millions
 of dollars in damage; and
    WHEREAS, In January of this year another major flood oc-
curred on the Stanislaus River causing damage which is esti-
mated at between one and two million dollars; and
    WHEREAS, This project will also provide substantial bene-
fits for irrigation, recreation, fish enhancement, water quality
control, and power production in a wide area of central Cali-
fornia; and
   WHEREAS, The California Water Commission after ex-
tended study has recommended that sufficient funds be appro-
priated during the fiscal year 1969-1970 to advance construc-
tion of the dam and insure the earliest possible completion of
the project; and
   WHEREAS, Recurring floods, the growing need for water for
irrigation and domestic purposes, and the increasing demand
for recreational developments in the area amply justify the
earliest possible completion of the New Melones Dam and
Reservoir Project; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Califor-
nia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States
to appropriate during the fiscal year 1969-1970 for construc-
tion of New Melones Dam on the Stanislaus River an amount
sufficient to insure the earliest possible completion of the proj-
ect; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Director of the Bureau of the
Budget, to the Secretary of Defense, to the Chief of Engineers
of the U.S. Army, to the Speaker of the House of Representa-
tives, and to each Senator and Representative from California
in the Congress of the United States.
                         1969
Res. Ch. 253]                   REGULAR SESSION                  3921

                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 252
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 216—Relative to
                   brucellosis eradication.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 24, 1969.]

    WHEBBAS, The California Dairy Animal Health Committee,
formerly the Statewide Bang's Disease Committee, has been
 organized and active since 1938; and
    WHEREAS, The committee, representing California's beef and
 dairy and swine industries in combating brucellosis, an infec-
 tious disease of man and animal which would cause losses ex-
ceeding $25 million annually if it remained unchecked, has
coordinated its efforts with the State Department of Agricul-
ture, University of California, and other governmental agen-
cies ; and
    WHEREAS, Its enlightened attitude led to the development of
recommendations and public relations resulting in a statewide
effort toward eradicating the disease; and
    WHEREAS, The 20-year campaign to eradicate bovine bru-
cellosis ended in success in May 1969; and
    WHEREAS, California now qualifies, after 10 years (1938-
1948) of pioneering efforts, for federal certification as a bo-
vine brucellosis-free state, with the official effort to eradicate
brucellosis starting with a calf vaccination program in 1948
and the testing of cattle program in 1957; and
   WHEREAS, Joe H a r t of Stanislaus County, the only original
producer member remaining on the committee, has served as
the one and only chairman of an active committee; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend Joe
Hart and the many livestock producers who have served on
the California Dairy Animal Health Committee, the State De-
partment of Agriculture, University of California, other gov-
ernmental agencies and related industries; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Joe Hart, the
State Department of Agriculture, and the University of Cali-
fornia.

                 RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 253
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 215—Approving               an
  amendment to the Charter of the City of Petaluma, County
  of Sonoma, State of California, ratified by the qualified elec-
  tors of the city at a regular municipal election held, therein
  on the 10th day of June, 1969.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 24, 1969.]
3922              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 253

  WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pro-
posal, adoption, and ratification of an amendment to the
Charter of the City of Petaluma, a municipal corporation in
the County of Sonoma, State of California, as hereinafter set
forth in the certificate of the mayor and city clerk of the city,
as follows:

           CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENTS TO CHARTER
            OF THE CITY OF PETALUMA, CALIFORNIA

State of California ]
County of Sonoma >
City of Petaluma J

   We, the undersigned, Helen Putnam, Mayor of the City of
Petaluma, and Lillian Nommsen, City Clerk of the City of
Petaluma, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of Petaluma is a Municipal Corporation in
the County of Sonoma, State of California, and is now, and
at all times hereinafter referred to, was a city containing a
population of more than 3,500 inhabitants and less than 50,000
inhabitants as ascertained by the last preceding census taken
under the authority of the Congress of the United States.
   That said City of Petaluma is now organized, existing and
acting under a Freeholders' Charter, adopted under and by
virtue of Section 8, Article X I of the Constitution of the
State of California, which Charter was duly ratified by the
qualified electors of said City at an election duly held for that
purpose on June 10, 1947, and approved by the Legislature
of the State of California by concurrent Resolution No. 64
filed with the Secretary of State on June 20, 1947.
   That in pursuance of Section 8, Article X I of the Constitu-
tion of the State of California and on its own motion, the
Council of the City of Petaluma, being the legislative body of
said City, duly and regularly submitted to the qualified
electors of said City of Petaluma, proposals for amendments
of the Charter of said City to be voted upon by said qualified
electors at a regular municipal election held in said City on
the 10th day of June, 1969.
   That said proposed amendments were published and adver-
tised in the form and manner and for the length of time, and
in accordance with the provisions of Section 8, Article X I of
the Constitution of the State of California, in the Argus
Courier, a newspaper of general circulation printed and pub-
lished at and within the City of Petaluma, County of Sonoma,
State of California, and the official newspaper of said City.
    That the election at which said proposed charter amend-
ments were voted upon was, by resolution, set and called for
the 10th day of June, 1969.
    That the City Council of the City of Petaluma did, in the
manner provided by law, duly and regularly canvass the re-
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 253]              REGULAR SESSION                 3923

turns of said election and that said Council, by resolution
adopted on the 16th day of June, 1969, did declare the results
of said election as determined by a canvass of the returns
thereof.
   That at said election held, two (2) Charter Amendments
were submitted to the electorate of the City of Petaluma, and
of said proposed Charter Amendments, one (1) was ratified
and adopted by a majority of said City; that said proposed
Charter Amendment so ratified by the electors of the said City
of Petaluma proposed to amend Section 25 of the Charter of
the City of Petaluma to read as follows:
   "Section 25. The principal appointive officials of the city
shall be the city clerk, city auditor, assessor, treasurer, tax
and license collector, city attorney, director of public works
or engineer, police judge, chief of police, fire chief, street
superintendent, park superintendent, director of recreation
and five library trustees.
   The five library trustees shall be appointed to a term not to
exceed four years and may be removed by a majority vote of
the council, and one of such trustees must be appointed by the
council from its own members.
   The board of library trustees shall have the power and duty
to:
    (a) Manage the library and appoint, discipline and dismiss
all officers and employees of the library;
   (b) Accept money, personal property, or real estate donated
to the city for library purposes, subject to the approval of
the council; and
    (c) Contract with school, county or other government agen-
cies to render or receive library services or facilities, subject
to the approval of the council.
   The city council at any time when in its judgment the in-
terests of the city so demand, may consolidate and place in
charge of one such officer the functions and duties of two or
more such officers. The council shall prescribe the duties of all
of the principal appointive officials except as otherwise pro-
vided in this Chapter.''

  That we have compared the foregoing amendment with the
original proposal submitting the same to the electors of said
City and find that the foregoing is a full, true, correct and
exact copy thereof.
  That in all matters and in all things pertaining to said
Charter amendment, all the provisions of Section 8 of Article
X I of the Constitution of the State of California and the laws
of said State, have been fully complied with in each and every
particular.
3924               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [ReS. C h . 2 5 4

  In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
caused the corporate seal of said City of Petaluma to be affixed
hereto this 23rd day of June, 1969.
                                             H E L E N PUTNAM
   (SEAL)                                    Helen Putnam, Mayor
                                             City of Petaluma
Attest: LILLIAN NOMMSEN
        Lillian Nommsen
        City Clerk
and
   "WHEREAS, The proposed amendment to the charter, as
adopted and ratified as hereinabove set forth, has been and
now is duly submitted to the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia for approval or rejection, as a whole without power of
alteration or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of Petaluma,
County of Sonoma, as proposed to, and adopted and ratified
by, the electors of the city, as hereinabove fully set forth, is
hereby approved as a whole, without alteration or amendment,
for and as an amendment to, and as part of the Charter of,
the City of Petaluma County of Sonoma.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTBE 254
  Assembly Joint Resolution No. 37—Relative to oil drilling.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 28, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Section 6871.2 was added to the Public Eesources
 Code of this state by the Cunningham-Shell Tidelands Act of
1955 (Ch. 1724, Stats. 1955) to prohibit oil and gas develop-
ment operations in designated areas of tide and submerged
lands in the Counties of Los Angeles, Santa Barbara, Orange,
San Diego, and San Luis Obispo, and the section was subse-
quently amended in 1963 to create additional oil drilling
sanctuaries with respect to certain tide and submerged lands
in the Counties of Monterey, Humboldt, and Mendocino; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved oy the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of the
United States to prohibit oil and gas development operations
on such submerged federal lands off the California coast as
would represent an extension to the outer continental shelf
of the boundaries of the oil drilling sanctuary areas which
                        1969
Res. Ch. 2551                  RBGTJLAR SESSION                  392S

have been created with respect to certain tide and submerged
lands of the state; and be it further
   Resolved, That, with respect to those areas on the Outer
 Continental Shelf off the coast of California where oil and gas
development operations are conducted under federal lease, the
Legislature of the State of California respectfully memori-
alizes the President and the Congress of the United States to
allocate to the state 37-J percent of the net revenue received by
the federal government from the conduct of such operations;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Secretary of the Interior, to
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to each
Senator and Representative from California in the Congress
of the United States.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 255
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 224—Relative to
              the College Football Centennial.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 28, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, 1969 is the 100th anniversary of the first inter-
collegiate football game between Rutgers and Princeton; and
  WHEREAS, College football always has been an integral p a r t
of campus life and is a unique facet of the personality of the
institutions where it is played; and
  WHEREAS, It is a strong, unifying factor on the campus; and
  WHEREAS, College football has been praised by educators,
soldiers, and statesmen as fine training for meeting life's chal-
lenges ; and
  WHEREAS, College football has made a unique contribution
to the strong fiber of America and her people through its
teaching of determination, self-sacrifice, dedication and sports-
manship ; and
   WHEREAS, The game has a rich history and significant tra-
ditions—both tributes to the men who have played and coached
intercollegiate football; and
   WHEREAS, The National Football Foundation and Hall of
Fame and California chapters strongly support the widespread
playing of college and school football for the worthwhile per-
sonal characteristics imparted; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Gov-
ernor to proclaim 1969 the College Football Centennial Sea-
son and designate the period between October 11 and October
18, 1969, as National Football Foundation Week; and be i t
further
3926               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [Res. Ch. 256

  Resolved, That the members wish all college football teams,
players, coaches, and fans a memorable 100th anniversary, offer
congratulations to college football and the institutions in this
state on 100 years of greatness, and extend their best wishes
for an equally successful second century of wholesome com-
petition ; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 256
  Senate Joint Resolution No, 27—Relative to the Santa Clara
                 River Flood Control Project.
             [Filed with Secretary of Stat© July 28, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Santa Clara River Flood Control Project has
been proposed to provide for a system of works to control floods
 along the Santa Clara River and its tributaries; and
   WHEREAS, The Santa Clara River Flood Control Project was
 authorized by the Congress of the United States through the
 enactment of Public Law 858, 80th Congress, approved June
 30,1948; and
   WHEREAS, The Santa Clara River Flood Control Project was
 authorized for financial participation by the California Legis-
lature at the 1953 Regular Session of the Legislature; and
   WHEREAS, Floods occurring in the Santa Clara River Basin
 during the early part of 1969 caused severe damage to public
 and private property, endangered lives, and created great
hardship for the residents of the basin; and
   WHEREAS, Much of the damage and hardship created by
these floods could have been prevented had the authorized fea-
tures of the Santa Clara River Flood Control Project been con-
structed and in operation; and
   WHEREAS, The United States Army Corps of Engineers is
currently conducting a detailed study of the flood problems
of the Santa Clara River Basin in order to determine the addi-
tional works necessary to provide vital flood control; and
   WHEREAS, The Corps of Engineers plans to submit three
additional project reports on the Santa Clara River Basin,
including a report currently being prepared for flood control
in the Newhall-Saugus areas; and
   WHEREAS, The maintenance of an adequate level of federal
funding for the construction of vital flood control projects is
necessary for the safety and welfare of the people of Califor-
nia and of the United States; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to appropriate funds necessary to imme-
                         1969
Res. Ch. 2571                   REGULAR SESSION                  3927

diately undertake the construction of the presently authorized
Santa Clara River Flood Control Project; and be it further
   Resolved, That the United States Army Corps of Engineers
is urged to expedite their studies of flood control in the Santa
Clara River Basin and to seek authorization and construction
of necessary flood control works at the earliest possible time;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
to the chairmen of the appropriations committees of the
United States Senate and House of Representatives, to each
Senator and Representative from California in the Congress of
the United States, to the Chief of Engineers, United States
Army Corps of Engineers, and to the District Engineer, United
States Army Corps of Engineers District, Los Angeles.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 257
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 150—Relative to
              the California Dental Centennial.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 29, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The California Dental Association was founded
on June 29, 1870; and
  WHEREAS, One of the original objectives of the Association
was ' ' to cultivate the science and art of dentistry and cognate
sciences, to elevate and sustain the character of the profession,
and to promote mutual improvement, both professional and
social"; and
  WHEEEAS, The year 1970 marks a century of progress in
achieving this objective; and
  WHEREAS, The people of this state have benefited greatly
from the accomplishments and contributions to health by the
dental profession; and
  WHEREAS, During the year 1970 the dental profession of this
state through the California Dental Association and its 22
component societies will sponsor many dental education and
other programs calling attention to the importance of dental
health; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Governor of California is
hereby requested to proclaim 1970 as California Dental Cen-
tennial Year and to invite the people of this state to join with
state government agencies in participating in and giving
special support to dental health activities during 1970; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan and suitably
3928               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [KeS. C h . 2 5 8

prepared copies to the California Dental Association and to
Dr. Douglas E. Franklin, the President of the California
Dental Association.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 258
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 81—Relative to
          state water projects in Los Angeles County.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 81, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The State of California has undertaken the con-
struction of a State Water Resources Development System in
order to develop water supplies necessary to meet the growing
demands of its rapidly expanding population; and
   WHEREAS, The State Water Resources Development System
affords the opportunity to provide a wide variety of benefits,
including water supply, flood control, hydroelectric power gen-
eration, recreation, and fish and wildlife enhancement; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature, in recognition of the vast op-
portunities this project presented to enhance the state's fish
and wildlife resources and to provide statewide recreation
benefits, enacted the Davis-Dolwig Act, declaring recreation
and fish and wildlife enhancement to be purposes of all state
water projects; and
   WHEREAS, Significant accomplishments have already been
realized as a result of this specific legislative policy declara-
tion ; and
   WHEREAS, The attainment of the goals sought by the Legis-
lature through the passage of the Davis-Dolwig Act has not
always been accomplished without difficulty, inasmuch as the
use of land and water for various beneficial purposes is not in
all instances compatible; and
   WHEREAS, Considerable difficulty has been encountered in
formulating an acceptable recreational development program
for the Castaic Reservoir, the Pyramid Reservoir, and portions
of the California Aqueduct located in Los Angeles County be-
cause of such competing uses of land and water; and
   WHEREAS, The Castaic Reservoir is a multiple-purpose facil-
ity designed to provide a multiplicity of benefits for the people
of California; and
   WHEREAS, The development of facilities to provide benefits
for specific project purposes consistent with the development
of facilities for all other beneficial purposes is dependent upon
the formulation of a comprehensive plan which sets forth gen-
eral guidelines for the total development of the project; and
   WHEREAS, The formulation of a comprehensive plan for the
Castaic Reservoir Complex will require the consideration of a
wide variety of interests and is necessary to assure the attain-
ment of the maximum possible benefit afforded by the project;
now, therefore, be it
                         1969
Res. Ch. 259]                   REGTTLAK SESSION                 3929

  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Department of Water Re-
sources, in cooperation with the Department of Parks and Rec-
reation and the Department of Fish and Game, are directed to
formulate a comprehensive plan for the Castaie Reservoir
Complex, the Pyramid Reservoir, and portions of the Cali-
fornia Aqueduct located in Los Angeles County, and to develop
the comprehensive plan for the Castaie Reservoir in full coop-
eration with the County of Los Angeles and the United States
Forest Service; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Director of Parks and Recreation,
the Director of Water Resources, and the Director of Fish and
Game.

                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 259
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 93—Relative to
              water pollution abatement practices.
                [Filed with Secretary of State July 31, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The pollution of water presents an imminent
danger to the health of all citizens, and presents a grave threat
to the recreation, wildlife, and aesthetic potentials of water
use; and
   WHEKEAS, The pollution of water is contrary to the legal
doctrine of beneficial use for water rights allocation; and
   WHEREAS, The right to divert and use waters of the state
for domestic, industrial, or agricultural purposes does not
imply the right to discharge waste water of a quality lower
than that of the water diverted; and
   WHEREAS, Existing water pollution regulation has proved to
be inadequate to effectively control water quality in the public
interest; and
   WHEREAS, The pollution of water results in enormous public
expense for damage repair and pollution abatement caused by
the pollution by private water users; and
   WHEREAS, That the public is ultimately assessed for the cost
of pollution which is caused by private water users is un-
justifiable ; and
   WHEREAS, The precedent and example of the assessment of
fees on water users who discharge waste waters which utilize
the assimilative capacity of any waters within a given political
jurisdiction are provided by the Federal Republic of Germany
in the Ruhr Valley; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the State Water Resources
Control Board is directed to conduct a contrastive study of
water pollution abatement practices as existing in the State
of California and in the Federal Republic of Germany; that
3930              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ReS. Ch. 260

such study assess the German fee assessment practice, includ-
ing the amount of fee rates, the criteria for stream quality
upon which the rates are based, and the political and judicial
structures which administer the fee assessment; that such
study determine the technical applicability Of such fee assess-
ment practice to the water pollution situation in the State of
California; that such study determine the political feasibility
of establishing fee assessment practice, on water users who
pollute water, as public policy; and that such study determine
reasonable standards, criteria, and specifications upon which
a fee assessment practice could be applied for the unique needs
of the State of California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the State "Water Resources Control Board
shall report its findings and recommendations thereon, includ-
 ing its recommendations concerning any necessary legislation,
 to the Legislature not later than the 30th legislative day of
 the 1970 Regular Session of the Legislature; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
 of this resolution to the State Water Resources Control Board.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 260
       Senate Joint Resolution No. 18—Relating to mineral
          extraction from outer continental shelf lands.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 31, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The State of California has for many years been
engaged in the study of coastal marine resources, including
mineral resources, to determine the methods whereby such re-
sources may best be utilized and protected; and
   WHEREAS, The federal government exercises, by virtue of
its sovereignty, jurisdiction over outer continental shelf lands ;
and
   WHEREAS, The United States Department of the Interior has
entered into a mineral extraction leasing program with respect
to outer continental shelf lands adjacent to the coastal states;
and
   WHEREAS, This program will have a decided impact upon
the coastal environment of the states adjoining the outer con-
tinental shelf lands under lease, and the recent oil leakage
disaster off the California coast is tragic evidence of the terri-
ble impact such oil and gas operations may have upon the
marine and coastal resources of adjacent states; and
   WHEREAS, Congress is currently considering legislation af-
fecting the coastal resources of the various states adjoining
the outer continental shelf lands and the revenues derived
from such lands, which legislation would provide for the aug-
mentation of the Land and Water Conservation F u n d ; and
                    1969
Res. Ch. 260]              REGULAR SESSION                   3931

    WHEREAS, The State of California recognizes the need for
increased funding of the Land and Water Conservation Fund,
in order to permit the acquisition and development of land and
water resources by the various states pursuant to the Land and
Water Conservation F u n d Act of 1965 (Public Law 88-578;
78 Stat. 897); and
    WHEREAS, The disposition of the revenues derived from the
outer continental shelf lands should take into consideration the
impact which the mineral extraction leasing program will have
upon the coastal environment of the coastal states; now, there-
fore, be it
     Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
memorializes Congress to recognize the precedent established
in the so-called Mineral Lands Leasing Act of 1920 which al-
locates to the particular state involved 37£ percent of proceeds
derived from mineral extraction from federal lands located
 within such state; and to recognize, further, that the Land and
 Water Conservation F u n d should be augmented with addi-
 tional moneys (as determined by the Secretary of the Interior),
 provided that such funds are taken from money in the United
 States Treasury not otherwise allocated, together with funds
 specified under subsections (a), (b) and (c) of Section 2 of
 Title I of the Land and Water Conservation F u n d Act of 1965;
 and be it further
     Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
 fully supports any measure which affirms the concept of al-
 locating portions of the funds derived from mineral extraction
 to the states adjoining outer continental shelf lands for the pur-
 pose of serving the national interest; and be it further
     Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
 recognizes the need for Congress to provide subsidence and oil
 seepage disaster protection for the states located adjacent to
  the outer continental shelf lands; and be it further
     Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
 memorializes Congress to enact legislation creating a commis-
  sion composed of both federal and state technical personnel to
  establish drilling and safety practices for the development of
  the oil resources of the outer continental shelf; and be it
  further
      Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
  of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
  United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
   to the Secretary of the Interior, and to each Senator and Rep-
  resentative from California in the Congress of the United
 States.
3932               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                     [f> e g Qfr   261



                EESOLUTION CHAPTER 261
          Senate Joint Resolution No. 24—Relative to
                high-speed rail passenger service.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 31, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, The federal government is now considering the
so-called ' ' Pell Plan,'' which envisions the creation of an inter-
state authority which, with federal assistance, would establish
and operate a high-speed rail passenger service in the heavily
populated northeast corridor of the United States; and
   WHEREAS, There is an imperative need for such a high-speed
rail passenger service in the San Francisco Bay area metro-
politan complex, in the Los Angeles metropolitan complex,
and in the San Diego metropolitan complex and for the future
linking of these three heavily populated metropolitan areas
by a high-speed rail passenger service; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to expand the so-called "Pell P l a n " to
include provisions for the establishment and operation of
high-speed rail passenger service in the San Francisco Bay
area metropolitan complex, in the Los Angeles metropolitan
complex, and in the San Diego metropolitan complex and pro-
visions for the future linking of these three heavily populated
metropolitan areas by a high-speed rail passenger service; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in the
 Congress of the United States.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 262
    Senate Joint Resolution No. 30—Relative to recreation
           planning at federal flood control projects.
             [Filed with Secretary of State July 31, 1969.]

  "WHEREAS, The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, pursuant to
various federal statutes, plans and constructs flood control
projects in the various states, including the State of Cali-
fornia ; and
  WHEREAS, Such projects include not only reservoir flood
control storage projects but also channel improvements and
channel rectifications; and
  WHEREAS, Under the Federal Water Project Recreation Act
approved July 9, 1965 (79 Stat. 213), recreation planning is
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 263]              REGULAR SESSION                    3933

included in the planning of federal reservoir projects, includ-
ing those that provide flood control storage; and
   WHEREAS, Flood control projects involving levees and chan-
nel improvements and rectifications, such as the one presently
being designed for the Napa River in California, present op-
portunities for recreation development and beautification asso-
ciated with the channel improvements; and
   WHEREAS, Recreational uses, such as walkways, pathways,
access points, view areas, and areas for boating, fishing, swim-
ming, and other outdoor activities, but not excluding other
recreational activities, should be considered in planning chan-
nel improvement projects as well as reservoir projects; and
   WHEREAS, Streams and channels should be considered in re-
lation to their multipurpose uses and not simply as flood dis-
charge conduits; and
   WHEREAS, There exists a great demand for water-associated
recreational development; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to
include recreation and beautification in planning channel im-
provement and channel rectification projects, and that provi-
sions for recreation be included as part of the project plans;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget, to
the Chief Engineer of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to
the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to each
 Senator and Representative from California in the Congress of
 the United States.

                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 263
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 30—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by adding Section 24
  to Article XX and by repealing Articles X and XVII, relat-
  ing to partial revision of the Constitution of the State of
  California.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 1, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-thirds
of the members elected to each of the two houses of the Legis-
lature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of the
State of California that the Constitution of the state be revised
as follows:
3934               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Res. Ch. 264

   First—That Article X is repealed.
   Second—That Article XVII is repealed.
   Third—That former Paragraph 3 of Section 1 of Article X
is added to Article X X as Section 24, to read:
   SEC. 24. The labor of convicts shall not be let out by con-
tract to any person, copartnership, company or corporation,
and the Legislature shall, by law, provide for the working of
convicts for the benefit of the State.
   And be it further resolved, That Assembly Constitutional
Amendment No. 30 of the 1969 Regular Session shall not be
submitted to the people unless Assembly Bill 1095 of the 1969
Regular Session is enacted by the Legislature and deposited
in the office of the Secretary of State.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 264
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 31—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by repealing Article
  XII, by adding Article XII, by adding Section 30 to Article
  XIII, by amending Section 1 of Article XIV, and by adding
  Section 23 to Article XX, thereof, relating to partial revi-
  sion of the Constitution of the State of California.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 1, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular
Session commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-
thirds of the members elected to each of the two houses of the
Legislature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of
the State of California that the Constitution of the state be
amended as follows :
  First—That Article X I I is repealed.
  Second—That Article X I I is added, to read :

                         ARTICLE X I I
                         PUBLIC UTILITIES

   SEC. 1. The Public Utilities Commission consists of 5 mem-
bers, or more if prescribed by statute, appointed by the Gov-
ernor and approved by the Senate, a majority of the member-
ship concurring, for staggered 6-year terms. A vacancy is filled
for the remainder of the term. The Legislature may remove a
member for incompetence, neglect of duty, or corruption, two
thirds of the membership of each house concurring.
   SEC. 2. Private corporations and persons that own, oper-
ate, control, or manage a line, plant or system for the trans-
portation of people or property, the transmission of messages,
or the furnishing of heat, light, water, power, storage or wharf-
                     196
fees. Ch. 264]             9 REGULAR SESSION                 3935

age, directly or indirectly to or for the public, and common
carriers, are public utilities subject to control by the Legisla-
ture. The Legislature may prescribe that additional classes of
private corporations or persons are public utilities.
   SEC. 3. The Commission shall have such jurisdiction and
such legislative, executive, and judicial powers as are conferred
upon it by the Legislature, which are cognate and germane
to the regulation of public utilities. The manner and scope of
review of Commission action in a court of record shall be pro-
vided by statute.
   A city, county, or other public body may not regulate mat-
ters over which the Legislature grants regulatory power to
the Commission. This section does not affect power over public
utilities relating to the making and enforcement of police,
sanitary, and other regulations concerning municipal affairs
pursuant to a city charter existing on October 10, 1911, unless
that power has been revoked by the city's electors, or the right
of any city to grant franchises for public utilities or other
businesses on terms, conditions, and in the manner prescribed
by law.
   SEC. 4. The Legislature may provide that on request of
condemnor and condemnee the Commission fix just compensa-
tion for public utility property taken by eminent domain.
   Third—That former Section 13 of Article X I I is added to
Article X I I I as Section 30, to read:
   SEC. 30. The state shall not in any manner loan its credit,
nor shall it subscribe to, or be interested in the stock of any
company, association, or corporation, except that the state
and each political subdivision, district, municipality, and pub-
lic agency thereof is hereby authorized to acquire and hold
shares of the capital stock of any mutual water company or
corporation when such stock is so acquired or held for the
purpose of furnishing a supply of water for public, municipal
or governmental purposes; and such holding of such stock
shall entitle such holder thereof to all of the rights, powers and
privileges, and shall subject such holder to the obligations and
liabilities conferred or imposed by law upon other holders of
stock in the mutual water company or corporation in which
such stock is so held.
   Notwithstanding provisions to the contrary in this section
and Section 25 of this article, the Legislature may authorize
the investment of moneys of any public pension or retirement
fund other than the fund provided for in Section 13901 of the
Education Code, or any successor thereto, not to exceed 25
percent of the assets of such fund determined on the basis of
cost in the common stock or shares and not to exceed 5 percent
of assets in preferred stock or shares of any corporation pro-
vided:
   a. Such stock is registered on a national securities exchange,
as provided in the "Securities Exchange Act of 1934" as

   124—1954
3936               SCTAtUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [ R e s Qfr 264

 amended, but such registration shall not be required with
 respect to the following stocks:
     1) The common stock of a bank which is a member of the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and has capital funds,
 represented by capital, surplus, and undivided profits, of at
 least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000);
    2) The common stock of an insurance company which has
 capital funds, represented by capital, special surplus funds,
 and unassigned surplus, of at least fifty million dollars
  ($50,000,000);
    3) Any preferred stock;
    b. Such corporation has total assets of at least one hundred
 million dollars ($100,000,000);
    c. Bonds of such corporation, if any are outstanding, qual-
 ify for investment under the law governing the investment of
 the retirement fund, and there are no arrears of dividend pay-
 ments on its preferred stock;
    d. Such corporation has paid a cash dividend on its com-
 mon stock in at least 8 of the 10 years next preceding the date
 of investment, and the aggregate net earnings available for
 dividends on the common stock of such corporation for the
 whole of such period have been equal to the amount of such
 dividends paid, and such corporation has paid an earned cash
 dividend in each of the last 3 years;
    e. Such investment in any one company may not exceed
 5 percent of the common stock shares outstanding; and
    f. No single common stock investment may exceed 2 percent
 of the assets of the fund, based on cost.
    Notwithstanding provisions to the contrary in this section
and Section 25 of this article, the Legislature may authorize
the investment of moneys of any public pension or retirement
fund other than the fund provided for in Section 13901 of the
Education Code, or any successor thereto, in stock or shares
of a diversified management investment company registered
under the "Investment Company Act of 1940" which has total
assets of at least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) ; provided,
however, that the total investment in such stocks and shares,
together with stocks and shares of all other corporations may
not exceed 25 percent of the assets of such fund determined on
the basis of the cost of the stocks or shares.
    Fourth—That Section 1 of Article XIV is amended to read:
    SEC. 1. The use of all water now appropriated, or that
may hereafter be appropriated, for sale, rental, or distribution,
is hereby declared to be a public use, and subject to the regu-
lation and control of the State, in the manner to be prescribed
by law.
    Fifth—That Section 23 is added to Article XX, to read:
    SEC. 23. Laws concerning corporations may be amended or
repealed.
    And he it further resolved, That Assembly Constitutional
Amendment No. 31 of the 1969 Eegular Session shall not be
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 265]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3937

submitted to the people unless Assembly Bill 1096 of the
1969 Kegular Session is enacted by the Legislature and de-
posited in the office of the Secretary of State.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 265
  Senate Joint Resolution No. 28—Relative to oil pollution.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 1, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I t is the desire of the people of California to
protect the ocean waters, coastline, and marine resources of
this state from pollution by oil; and
   WHEREAS, One major source of pollution to the coastal
environment is caused by oil washing ashore from tankers that
surreptitiously clean their tanks near our shores; and
   WHEREAS, This oil causes great harm to the marine and
coastal biology and wildlife resources, despoils beaches and
coastline, impairs valuable recreational uses, costs taxpayers
thousands of dollars to remove, and results in considerable
economic loss to shoreline communities; and
   WHEREAS, The United States is a contracting nation to
the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution
of the Seas by Oil, thereby establishing a zone extending 50
miles off our coast in which registered vessels of all contracting
nations are prohibited from discharging oil; and
   WHEREAS, If such an oil discharge takes place outside of
the territorial waters of the United States, although within the
protective zone, the United States does not have authority
under the treaty to punish any vessel of any contracting nation
other than its own; and
   WHEREAS, Oil imports have risen over 100 million tons in
the past 20 years and American flag vessels carry only 5
percent of the oil imports into the United States; and
   WHEREAS, The United States tanker fleet is governed by
substantially adequate domestic laws and most American ves-
sels are operating under a voluntary "clean seas" policy which
prohibits the discharge of persistent oils into any part of any
ocean; and
   WHEREAS, A S long as foreign vessels are preeminent in
the oil import trade, the domestic law of the United States is
 inadequate to deal with the discharge of oil in connection with
tanker operations and protection must be sought through
international channels; and
   WHEREAS, The United States has set the international com-
munity a good example with respect to the control of oil
 discharges from tankers and demonstrated a need for a world-
 wide "clean seas" policy; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved hy the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
3938               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ReS. Ch. 266

respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to take immediate steps to commence nego-
tiations with other countries toward the formulation of inter-
national conventions to extend controls over the discharge of
oil and other hazardous substances into international waters
beyond the zones presently proscribed, to establish interna-
tional policies for "clean w a t e r s " on the high seas, and to
provide adequate deterrent to violators; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 266
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 95—Relative to a study of
      the property tax exemption for homes for the aged.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 2, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Homes for the needy aged were granted property
tax exemption under the constitutional provision allowing
relief to religious, hospital, and charitable organizations; and
   WHEREAS, Homes for the needy aged relieve government of
a responsibility to provide care and expensive housing facili-
ties for certain persons who cannot care for themselves; and
   WHEREAS, The contended exemption also has been extended
to retirement homes and apartments which are not designed to
serve the needy; and
   WHEREAS, Persons of means living in such facilities can
escape local property taxes while less affluent senior citizens
living in their own homes must continue to pay property
taxes; and
   WHEREAS, The number of these new retirement homes is
increasing rapidly, mainly in urban centers and in a number
of smaller communities; and
   WHEREAS, These new retirement facilities have removed $58
million of assessed value from the tax rolls of local govern-
ments while adding additional service needs for these local
governments; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee is hereby requested to review the law under which
this exemption is now granted to all homes for the aged re-
gardless of whether they serve needy or affluent members;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Joint Legislative Budget Committee shall
examine:
   (1) Which portion of the cost of these homes is devoted to
welfare-type activities as distinct from residential care; and
                     1969
Res. Ch. 267]               JUGULAR SESSION                   3939

   (2) What are the equity considerations in granting prop-
erty tax exemptions for the residential portion of these facili-
ties; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Joint Legislative Budget Committee is
directed to report its findings and recommendations to the
Legislature by the 30th calendar day of the 1970 Regular
Session of the Legislature; and be it further
   Resolved, That this study shall not be interpreted or used
in any way to forestall cities from imposing a business license
tax or any other tax on life-care homes which are exempt
from property taxation.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 267
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 123—Relative to Senate
  Bill No. 2 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 2, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, At its 1969 Regular Session, the Legislature
enacted Senate Bill No. 2 as Chapter 24 of the Statutes to
provide for financing the completion of the rapid transit
system of the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District
in the principal amount of $150,000,000, plus various costs
and interest payments, by means of a district transactions and
use tax at the rate of one-half of 1 percent; and
   WHEREAS, I n enacting Senate Bill No. 2, it is the intent of
the Legislature that the taxpayers in the San Francisco Bay
Area Rapid Transit District shall be required to pay no more
than the actual amount necessary to finance the completion
of the rapid transit system; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature so provided for the protection of
the taxpayers in Senate Bill No. 2, wherein it adds Section
29140.5 to the Public Utilities Code to provide that, "if other
methods of financing shall hereafter be approved as a result
of other legislation hereafter enacted, then to the extent of
any funds received by the district under such other method
of financing, after deducting expenses of collection, the amount
of revenues from transactions and use taxes pursuant to this
article authorized under Section 29142 shall be reduced in
order that such taxes shall earlier terminate''; and
   WHEREAS, The purpose of the above provision is to protect
the taxpayers in the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit
District by providing for a termination of the district's trans-
actions and use tax at the earliest possible date, and it is
immaterial whether legislation hereafter enacted is by the
Legislature of the State of California or the Congress of the
United States, so long as other methods of financing are made
available to the district to complete its transit system, if such
financing may be used for the purposes of reducing the prin-
cipal amount of $150,000,000 and is not earmarked for some
3940              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Ch. 268

specified purpose, such as the acquisition of rolling stock; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature, by adding
Section 29140.5 to the Public Utilities Code at its 1969 Regular
Session, intends that such section shall apply to both state and
federal legislation hereafter enacted, unless such legislation
earmarks the grant for specified purposes; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Board of Directors of the San Fran-
cisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 268
  Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 146—Relative to the 10th
  anniversary of the San Francisco Police Athletic League.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 2, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, The San Francisco Police Athletic League
 (PAL), under the outstanding leadership of its president,
Sergeant Charles Ellis, and vice president, Sergeant Steve
Spelman, with the help of the annual PAL Circus and the
PAL Boosters and other supporters who have assisted in un-
derwriting its activities, and its participating police officers
and citizen coaches, has filled a great void in the athletic pro-
grams available to the youngsters of San Francisco, and has
led to the creation of a spirit of mutual understanding, trust,
and friendship between the youth and the police officers of
the city; and
   WHEREAS, From the modest beginning of a handful of offi-
cers and with less than two hundred youngsters in 1959, PAL
has expanded so rapidly that the program now includes over
three hundred police officers and civilian coaches engaged ac-
tively in sports, and the number of youngsters involved in the
various sport programs is rapidly approaching five thousand
per year; and
   WHEREAS, PAL today fields over 70 baseball teams, 41 soccer
teams, nine football teams, and 35 basketball teams, and op-
erates programs in track and field, boxing, judo, and swim-
ming, reflecting PAL's greater and greater emphasis upon
summer activities so that during this traditionally idle time
youngsters can participate in healthful sporting activities pro-
viding at the same time recreation and experience in sports-
manship and fair play; and
   WHEREAS, The newly formed law enforcement division pro-
vides high school age students an inside view of law enforce-
ment with instruction in all phases of police work, including
investigations, patrol work, and trials, and includes tours of
various state law enforcement agencies and many kinds of
on-the-scene instruction; and
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 269]                REGULAB SESSION                  3941
   "WHEREAS, The PAL program represents a significant and
highly commendable effort to provide thousands of youngsters
an opportunity not otherwise available to participate in or-
ganized sporting events, and is a positive and constructive
approach to the problems of juvenile delinquency through its
involvement with the young; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members congratulate the
San Franciso Police Athletic League on the occasion of its
10th anniversary, and commend the organization for its in-
terest in and positive programs on behalf of the city's youth;
and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to the San Francisco Police
Athletic League, Mavor Joseph L. Alioto, and Thomas J.
Cahill, Chief of Police.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E E 269
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 149—Relative to
               memorializing Russell E. Pettit.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 2, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature of the State of
California were saddened to learn of the death of Russell E.
Pettit, prominent San Jose civic leader and dean of the na-
tion's chamber of commerce officials; and
   WHEREAS, Born in Maywood, Illinois, Mr. Pettit received
his education at the University of Chicago where he received
a bachelor of philosophy degree, and after traveling in Europe
and working for advertising firms in Chicago and San Fran-
cisco he came to San Jose; and
   WHEREAS, In 1925, Mr. Pettit became manager of publicity
and conventions of the Greater San Jose Chamber of Com-
merce; from 1928 to 1932, he was manager of the San Jose
Fiesta de las Rosas Association; in 1930, he founded the San
Jose Junior Chamber of Commerce; and in 1936, he was
named general manager of the San Jose Chamber of Com-
merce, a post he held until his retirement on June 1, 1967; and
   WHEREAS, During his 42 years with the chamber, Mr. Pettit
played a key role in San Jose's growth from an agricultural
community to an industrial center and was the driving force
behind San Jose's industrial development program during and
immediately after World War I I ; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Pettit was a leader in the formation of the
Santa Clara County Fair Association and served as secretary-
manager and a member of its board of directors; and
   WHEREAS, He was named one of the first San Jose Junior
Chamber of Commerce's Young Men of the Year, and was
3942               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Ees. Ch. 270

honored by more than 700 persons at a testimonial banquet
in the County Fairgrounds Pavilion huilding on the occasion
of his retirement two years ago; and
  WHEREAS, This veteran civic leader was a past president
and director of the San Jose Rotary Club, past president of
the American Chamber of Commerce Executives and a member
of the San Jose State College Advisory Board and the San
Jose Concert Series Advisory Board; and
  WHEREAS, His other affiliations included the Masons, San
Jose Lodge No. 10; Shrine-Islam Temple, San Francisco; San
Jose Country Club; Press and Union League Club of San
Francisco, and the Commonwealth Club of California; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Pettit was also active with the Santa Clara
County Council of Boy Scouts from 1931 to 1944 and from
1960 to 1963 was chairman of the special guests committee for
the annual "Scout-O-Eama"; and
   WHEREAS, The loss of this capable and public-spirited citi-
zen, who gave so generously of his time and energies for the
betterment of his community, will be deeply felt by his family,
his many close friends and the people of his community; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members pay homage to
the memory of Russell B. Pettit and express their sorrow over
the loss of the dean of the nation's chamber of commerce
officials and a dedicated civic leader; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to his widow, Mrs. Eleanor
Pettit, his daughter, Mrs. Patricia L. Prickett, and his brother,
Dr. Richard D. Pettit.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 270
       Senate Joint Resolution No. 16—Relative to lands for
                     the Washoe Indian Tribe.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 2, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Legislature is concerned with the public
health, safety and welfare of all the citizens of California; and
  WHEREAS, The Washoe Indian Tribe residing in and around
Woodfords, Alpine County, California, are living in an over-
crowded condition, in vastly substandard housing with inade-
quate water and sanitation facilities, on public and private
land; and
  WHEREAS, These existing conditions are matters affecting the
Washoe Tribe's health, safety and welfare; and
  WHEREAS, Under the existing conditions it is impossible to
make community improvements, or to participate in and de-
velop community programs, particularly housing; and
                         1965
Res. Ch. 271]                   REGULAR SESSION                       3§43

   WHBEBAS, The "Washoe Tribe has expressed a united desire
to acquire a land transfer from the public domain where they
can build a community; and
   WHEREAS, The Board of Supervisors of the County of Al-
pine, State of California, on the third day of September, 1968,
passed and adopted a resolution in support of a land transfer;
and
   WHEREAS, Legislation has been introduced in the Congress
of the United States to declare that the United States holds
in trust for the Washoe Indian Tribe certain lands in Alpine
County, California; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Califor-
nia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to enact legislation pertaining to the lands
for the Washoe Indian Tribe; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States, to the chairmen of the commit-
tees of the United States Congress dealing with the subject of
this resolution, to the Secretary of the Interior, and to the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 271
Senate Joint Resolution No. 26—Relative to Sherman                Institute.
                [Piled with Secretary of State August 5, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Legislature is concerned with the educational
opportunities of California students; and
   WHEREAS, California Indians, as well as Indians of other
states, are students at Sherman Institute, a Bureau of Indian
Affairs boarding school, in Riverside, California; and
   WHEREAS, Indian students require, desire and are entitled
to educational opportunities on a parity with other students
throughout the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, Equal educational opportunities, equal educa-
tional facilities, curriculum, personnel, services, and direction
must be obtained; and
   WHEREAS, The physical plant, curriculum, and faculty
training of Sherman Institute do not meet the minimum
standards required in California for accreditation; and
   WHEREAS, Sherman Institute's library is outdated and in-
adequate as a reference library in that it is deficient in both
number and quality of recommended books and other resource
material necessary to meet the students' educational needs;
and
3944               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ R e S - c h . 272

   "WHEREAS, There is insufficient personnel at Sherman Insti-
tute to provide the students with an equal educational oppor-
tunity in the areas of instruction, counseling, coaching, and
extracurricular activities at the school; and
   WHEREAS, Funds for clothing and travel for needy Indian
students are not available at Sherman Institute, although
funds are provided for this purpose at other federal Indian
schools; and
   WHEREAS, The most effective schools are those which are
governed by school boards that reflect the attitudes of the stu-
dents' parents; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of the
United States to provide for an emergency appropriation to
Sherman Institute to enable the school to bring its physical
plant up to standards necessary for accreditation, to improve
the school's library system, to obtain adequate personnel, and
to provide adequate services and to budget funds on a con-
tinuing basis to insure Sherman Institute's ability to maintain
its facilities, curriculum, personnel and services at a level nec-
essary to meet the Indian students' educational needs and to
establish an all-Indian school board to direct the school's pro-
gram; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States, to the chairmen of the commit-
tees of the United States Congress dealing with the subject of
this resolution, to the Secretary of the Interior and to the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 272
    Assembly Joint Resolution No. 40—Relative to taxation
             of state and local government bonds.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 7, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Equity among taxpayers is essential to popular
confidence in the federal revenue system; and
  WHEREAS, The Ways and Means Committee of the United
States House of Representatives has conducted extensive hear-
ing on proposals for equitable reform of the federal personal
income t a x ; and
  WHEREAS, Spokesmen for the National Governors' Confer-
ence, the National Legislative Conference, The National Asso-
ciation of Attorneys General and the National Association of
State Treasurers, Auditors and Comptrollers have endorsed
Res. Ch. 273]            1969
                                REGULAR SESSION                   3945

the objective of tax reform while urging the committee to
refrain from changes which would weaken the capacity of
the states to meet the needs for state services; and
   WHEREAS, The Ways and Means Committee is to be com-
mended for its efforts to improve the equity of the federal
personal income t a x ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States:
   1. That no change be made which would deprive state and
local government obligations of their traditional immunity
from federal taxation;
   2. That no change be made which would result in constric-
tion of the market for bonds issued by the states or local
governments;
   3. That no change be made which would interpose federal
judgments relating to the policies of the states or local
governments; and
   4. That no change is acceptable which would subject bor-
rowing by the states and local governments to the uncertain-
ties of the appropriation processes of the Congress; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 273
    Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 144—Relative to the
                      Eel River Basin.
                [Filed with. Secretary of State August 7,1969.]

   WHEREAS, The California State Legislature is committed to
the principle of completion, on schedule, of the State W a t e r
Project; and
   WHEREAS, The development of additional water for the State
Water Project to honor contractual commitments will be nec-
essary; and
   WHEREAS, The United States Army Corps of Engineers P r o -
posed Interim Report on Water Resources Development for the
Middle Pork Eel River sets forth a feasible means for develop-
ing additional water supplies for the State Water Project; a n d
   WHEREAS, The corps' proposed report is before the state for
official review and comment; and
   WHEREAS, The Senate Committee on Water Resources a n d
the Assembly Water Committee, pursuant to Sections 450 to
3946               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [EeS. Ch. 274

453 of the California Water Code, commented favorably to the
Secretary of the Resources Agency on the corps' proposed
report urging state support for early congressional authoriza-
tion; and
   "WHEREAS, The state is now reexamining other alternatives
for additional water development in the Eel River Basin prior
to making official comments to the United States Army Corps
of Engineers on its proposed report; and
   WHEREAS, The California State Legislature is concerned with
the financial, environmental, and water development aspects
of any other alternatives to be considered; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Cali-
fornia Department of Water Resources to submit to the Legis-
lature the results of its Eel River Basin alternative studies;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Senate Committee on Water Resources
and the Assembly Water Committee conduct joint public hear-
ings on such Eel River Basin alternaxive studies; and be it
further
   Resolved, That following the joint public hearing the Senate
Committee on Water Resources and the Assembly Water Com-
mittee submit their formal comments to the Governor; and be
it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Governor, the Secretary of the Re-
sources Agency, and the Director of the Department of Water
Resources.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 274
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 152—Relative
               to "Law and Morality Week."
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 7, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, In past years the governors from five states and
more than 60 mayors from leading cities in California, repre-
senting two-thirds of our state's population, have joined Chris-
tians and Jews for Law and Morality in proclaiming the week
of August 11th through August 18th as Law and Morality
Week; and
   WHEREAS, The educational foundation of Christians and
Jews for Law and Morality seeks a better understanding on
the part of the public of the essential role each individual
should play, assuming responsibility for his actions and involv-
ing himself in the continuing fight to uphold the law and main-
tain the moral standards of his community; and
   WHEREAS, This foundation reaffirms and encourages actions
which reflect the ideals upon which our Constitution was
founded based on a fundamental belief in a Supreme Being
                     l969
Res. Ch. 275]               REGULAR SESSION                   394?

and defends human dignity and freedom by actively opposing
those forces threatening man's inherent rights and individual
initiative; and
   WHEREAS, This foundation believes that our nation is
strengthened morally through citizens who proudly acknowl-
edge and practice equal opportunities and justice for all,
regardless of race, color or creed; and
   WHEREAS, The foundation holds as a primary objective the
instilling of respect for constituted authority in the hearts and
minds of all people and recognizes that the promotion of
ethical and moral values in the community help to preserve
and uphold the sanctity of family life as well as foster better
understanding and respect between citizens and law enforce-
ment agencies; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the members request the
Governor to proclaim the week of August 11th through Au-
gust 18th as Law and Morality Week; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 275
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 153—Relative to
               memorializing LeRoy V. Brant.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 7, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature have learned with
sorrow of the death of LeRoy V. Brant, founder of the San
Jose Municipal Chorus and for many years the foremost musi-
cal figure of his community; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Brant, the great-great-grandson of Mohawk
Chief Joseph Brant, head of the Six Nations during Revolu-
tionary War times, came from his native Nebraska to Cali-
fornia at the age of 17; and
   WHEREAS, In the 61 years which followed, he devoted his
life to music and to community activities which ranged from
volunteer service with the police auxiliary to politics; and
   WHEREAS, After graduation from Petaluma High School,
and from College of the Pacific with a bachelor of music de-
gree, he organized the first full music course in California
schools in Fort Bragg Union High School; and
   WHEREAS, In 1917, he came to San Jose and went on to be-
come an integral part of the city's musical life, founding the
San Jose Municipal Chorus in 1924 and conducting it until
his retirement in 1963; he also founded the Institute of Music,
the only privately owned, fully accredited academy of music
in Santa Clara County, and was its director until the time of
his death; and
394&               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 276

  "WHEREAS, Mr. Brant was a composer of countless sonatas, a
contributor to numerous national music publications, the orga-
nizer of the concert series for the San Jose Chapter of the
American Guild of Organists, the holder of five earned music
degrees, and, at various times, was music critic of the San Jose
Mercury-Herald and the San Jose Evening News; and
  WHEREAS, A 33rd degree Mason, inspector general honorary,
Mr. Brant was decorated knight commander of the Court of
Honor, Scottish Eite of Freemasonry, and he was organist for
the San Jose Scottish Eite Bodies for 35 years, retiring in
1954; and
  WHEREAS, He also was organist and choirmaster at Trinity
Episcopal Church for 24 years, retiring in 1946; he supervised
installation of the church organ and was designer of organs
for both the San Jose Scottish Rite Temple and the San Jose
Civic Auditorium; and he was also a member of the Santa
Clara County Music Teachers Association and the Santa Clara
County Republican Central Committee; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members express their
sincere condolences on the passing of LeRoy V. Brant to his
wife, Ruth; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Mrs. LeRoy V. Brant.


               EESOLUTION CHAPTEE 276
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 156—Approving an amend-
  ment to the Charter of the City of San Jose, a municipal
  corporation of the County of Santa Clara, State of Cali-
  fornia, voted for and ratified by the qualified electors of said
  city at a general municipal election held therein on the third
  day of June, 1969.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 7, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Proceedings have been taken and had for the pur-
pose of adoption and ratification of a certain amendment here-
inafter set forth to the Charter of the City of San Jose, a
municipal corporation of the County of Santa Clara, State of
California, as set forth in the certificate of the mayor and city
clerk of said city, as follows:

        CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT TO THE CHARTER OF
              THE CITY OF SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA

State of California  ")
County of Santa Clara [ ss.
City of San Jose      J
                    1969
Res. Ch. 276]              REGULAR SESSION                  3949

   We, the undersigned, Eonald E. James, Mayor of the City of
San Jose, State of California, and Francis L. Greiner, City
Clerk of said City, do hereby certify and declare as follows:
   That the City of San Jose, a municipal corporation, in the
County of Santa Clara, State of California, is now, and was at
all times herein mentioned: (a) a city containing a population
of more than two hundred four thousand inhabitants as ascer-
tained by the last preceding census taken under the authority
of the Congress of the United States; and (b) a city organized,
existing and acting under a charter, adopted under and by
virtue of Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of the
State of California, which charter was heretofore duly ratified
by a majority of the qualified electors of said City at a munic-
ipal election held for that purpose on the 13th day of April,
1965, and approved by the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia by concurrent resolution filed with the Secretary of
State on the 4th day of May, 1965 (Assembly Concurrent
Resolution No. 104, Chapter 76, Statutes of 1965).
   That in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 of
Article X I of the Constitution of the State of California, the
Council of the City of San Jose, being the legislative body of
said City, on its own motion, duly and regularly proposed and
submitted to the qualified electors of said City of San Jose a
certain proposal for the amendment of the Charter of said
City to be voted upon by the said qualified electors at the gen-
eral municipal election held in said City on the third day of
June, 1969, all as required by law, which said proposal was
designated as ' ' Charter Amendment—Proposition A ' ' .
   That said proposed amendment was published and adver-
tised in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of the Consti-
tution of the State of California, on the eighth day of April,
1969, in the " S a n Jose News", a daily newspaper of general
circulation published, printed and circulated in said City, and
being the official newspaper of said City for said purpose, and
in each edition thereof during the day of publication.
   That copies of said proposed charter amendment were
printed in convenient pamphlet form in type of not less than
ten-point, and were mailed to each of the qualified electors of
said City in accordance with the Constitution of the State of
California; and an advertisement that copies thereof could be
had upon application therefor at the office of the City Clerk
of the City of San Jose was published, printed and circulated
in said City, on the ninth day of April, 1969, and each day
thereafter to and including the second day of June, 1969, all
as required by Section 8 of Article X I of the Constitution of
the State of California; that copies of said pamphlet con-
taining said proposed charter amendment could be had upon
application therefor at the office of the City Clerk of said City
on and after the ninth day April, 1969, to and including the
third day of June, 1969, the date fixed for said election.
3950              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [EeS. Ch. 276

   That said proposed charter amendment was submitted to the
electors of said City of adoption and ratification at the general
municipal election duly and regularly held in said City of San
Jose on the third day of June, 1969, which said date was not
less than forty, nor more than sixty, days after the completion
of the advertising in the above mentioned official paper of the
proposed charter amendment aforesaid.
   That at said general municipal election a majority of the
qualified electors voting upon said proposed charter amend-
ment voted in favor of it and adopted and ratified the same.
   That said amendment to the Charter of the City of San
Jose, so adopted and ratified by the qualified electors of said
City, amends said Charter as follows:

            CHARTER AMENDMENT—PROPOSITION           A

   That Section 1106 of the Charter of the City of San Jose
be amended to read as follows:
   "Section 1106. Employees of Consolidated Cities. Except
as otherwise required by such laws of the State of California
as are applicable to charter cities, all officers and employees of
any city (hereinafter called "consolidated city") hereafter
consolidated with the City of San Jose, who were full-time
officers or employees of such consolidated city upon the date
of election held in such consolidated city for such consolida-
tion, when such officers or employees would be included in the
classified service of the City of San Jose, shall from the ef-
fective date of such consolidation be deemed to have their
names upon eligible lists for respective types of positions held
by them, and to be qualified for appointment to such respec-
tive positions."

   We further certify that we have compared the text of the
foregoing amendment with the original proposal submitting
the same to the electors of said City and find that the fore-
going is a full, true, correct, complete and exact copy thereof.
That as to said amendment, this certificate shall be taken as a
full certification of the regularity of all proceedings had and
done in connection therewith.
   In witness whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
have caused the corporate seal of the City of San Jose to be
affixed hereto this 10th day of July, 1969.

                          RONALD R. JAMES
  (SEAL)                  Mayor of the City of San Jose
                          FRANCIS L. GREINER
                          City Clerk of the City of San Jose
and
  WHEREAS, The proposed charter amendment, as ratified as
hereinabove set forth, has been and now is duly presented and
submitted to the Legislature of the State of California for
                         1969
Res. Ch. 277]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3951
approval or rejection, as a whole without power of alteration
or amendment, in accordance with Section 8 of Article X I of
the Constitution of the State of California; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, a majority of all the members
elected to each house voting therefor and concurring therein,
That the amendment to the Charter of the City of San Jose
as proposed to, and adopted and ratified by, the electors of
the city, as hereinbefore fully set forth, is hereby approved
as a whole, without alteration or amendment, for and as an
amendment to, and as part of the Charter of, the City of
San Jose.

                  RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 277
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 161—Relative to leaves of
  absence of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of
  State, Attorney General, Controller, Treasurer, Superintend-
  ent of Public Instruction, members of the Board of Equali-
  zation and the State Personnel Board, and Members of the
  Senate and Assembly.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 7, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That leaves of absence from the
state for a longer period than 60 days during their terms of
office are hereby granted to His Excellency Ronald Reagan,
Governor of the State of California; to the Honorable Ed
Reinecke, Lieutenant Governor of the State of California; to
Frank M. Jordan, Secretary of State; to Thomas C. Lynch,
Attorney General; to Houston I. Flournoy, Controller; to Ivy
Baker Priest, Treasurer; to Max Rafferty, Superintendent of
Public Instruction; to George R. Reilly, John W. Lynch,
Paul R. Leake, and Richard Nevins, members of the Board of
Equalization; to Joseph L. Wyatt, Jr., Robert M. Wald,
Samuel Leask, May Layne Davis, and Nita Wenter, members
of the State Personnel Board; and to the following Members
of the Senate and the Assembly:
   Senators Alfred E. Alquist, Anthony C. Beilenson, Clark L.
Bradley, Clair W. Burgener, Hugh M. Burns, Tom Carrell,
Randolph Collier, Gordon Cologne, William E. Coombs, Lou
Cusanovich, George E. Danielson, George Deukmejian, Ralph
C. Dills, Richard J. Dolwig, Mervyn M. Dymally, Donald L.
Grunsky, John L. Harmer, Joseph M. Kennick, Robert J.
Lagomarsino, Milton Marks, Fred W. Marler, Jr., John F .
McCarthy, James R. Mills, George R. Moscone, John A.
Nejedly, Nicholas Petris, H. L. Richardson, Albert S. Rodda.
John G. Schmitz, Jack Schrade, Lewis F . Sherman, Alan
Short, Alfred H. Song, Robert S. Stevens, Walter W. Stiern,
3952               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Ch. 278

Stephen P. Teale, Lawrence E. Walsh, Howard Way, James Q.
Wedworth, James E. Whetmore; Assemblymen Henry Arklin,
Robert E. Badham, William T. Bagley, E. Richard Barnes,
Carlos Bee, Frank P. Belotti, Clare L. Berryhill, Robert G.
Beverly, W. Craig Biddle, Yvonne W. Brathwaite, John V.
Briggs, Carl A. Britschgi, Willie L. Brown, Jr., Robert H.
Burke, John L. Burton, William Campbell, Eugene A. Chap-
pie, John L. E. Collier, Charles J. Conrad, Kenneth Cory,
Earle P. Crandall, Robert W. Crown, Mike Cullen, Pauline L.
Davis, Wadie P. Deddeh, James W. Dent, Gordon W. Duffy,
John F . Dunlap, Jack R. Fenton, March K. Fong, John F .
Foran, Ales P. Garcia, Joe A. Gonsalves, Bill Greene, Leroy F.
Greene, James A. Hayes, Tom Horn, Harvey Johnson, Ray E.
Johnson, Walter J. Karabian, William M. Ketchum, John T.
Knox, Frank Lanterman, Jerry Lewis, Ken MacDonald, Don
MacGillivray, Leo T. McCarthy, Patrick D. McGee, George W.
Milias, John J. Miller, Ernest N. Mobley, Bob Monagan,
Carlos J. Moorhead, Bob Moretti, Don Mulf'ord, Frank Mur-
phy, Jr., Carley V. Porter, Walter W. Powers, Paul Priolo.
John P. Quimby, Leon Ralph, David A. Roberti, Newton R.
Russell, Leo J. Ryan, Peter F. Schabarum, Alan Sieroty.
Kent H. Stacey, John Stull, Vincent Thomas, L. E. Townsend.
Jesse M. Unruh, John Vasconcellos, Victor V. Veysey, Floyd L.
Wakefield, Charles Warren, Henry A. Waxman, Pete Wilson.
Bob Wood, Edwin L. Z'berg, George N. Zenovich.
  The leaves of absence granted by this resolution are also
granted to the successors of any of the above-named officers
during their terms of office as such successors.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 278
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 25—Relative to use of
       certain property by Hastings College of the Law.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature recognize that
the Hastings College of the Law is an indispensable unit of the
public schools of the state necessary to provide competent
lawyers to meet the needs of the people of California; and
   WHEBEAS, Certain property located at 55 and 75 Hyde
Street, known as the old Bancroft Whitney Building, in San
Francisco, is now owned by the State of California and is
now being leased to and used by Hastings College of the Law;
and
   WHEREAS, This property is located directly across the street
from the present facilities of Hastings College of the Law;
and
   WHEREAS, The continued exclusive use of this property by
Hastings College of the LaAv will provide a continued efficiency
                         1969
Res. Ch. 280]                   REGULAR SESSION                        3953

of operation essential to maintenance of the excellent legal
education for which the school has acquired international
fame and acclaim; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That it is the express intent of the
Legislature that the property located at 55 and 75 Hyde
Street, known as the old Bancroft Whitney Building, in San
Francisco, which is now owned by the State of California, is
to be reserved for the exclusive use of Hastings College of the
Law; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to Hastings College of the Law and
to the Director of General Services.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 279
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 31—Relative                to
                  student health needs.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the
Trustees of the California State Colleges to study the health-
care needs of all of the state colleges and to report the re-
sults of the study and recommendations to the Legislature
not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular
Session; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Trustees of the California State
Colleges.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 280
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 109—Relative to the
      employment of clients of rehabilitation workshops.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, I t is the public policy of the State of California
to assist and encourage handicapped and disadvantaged indi-
viduals to attain their maximum usefulness and self-sufficiency
in order that they may make their full contribution to society;
and
   WHEEEAS, Rehabilitation workshops for the handicapped are
recognized as an effective method for helping handicapped
people achieve maximum usefulness and self-sufficiency and
are utilized by the State Department of Rehabilitation to help
its disabled clients achieve usefulness and self-sufficiency; and
3954                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Res. Ch. 281

   WHEREAS, An adequate and consistent flow of work con-
tracts is essential if these private, nonprofit rehabilitation
workshops are to carry on their programs effectively on behalf
of these disabled and disadvantaged clients; and
   WHEREAS, The State of California, through the General
Services Administration, purchases annually a large volume
of goods and services, many of which may be furnished
through rehabilitation workshops; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members urge and en-
courage the Department of General Services to explore with
the California Association of Rehabilitation Workshops ways
in which these rehabilitation workshops can participate in the
purchasing program of the State of California; and be it
further
   Resolved, That, where feasible, rehabilitation workshops be
given preferential consideration in awarding contracts, so that
the State of California helps insure, along with private in-
dustry, an adequate flow of work contracts for the disabled
clients of rehabilitation workshops, to the end that the public
policy of California in regard to its handicapped citizens may
be further implemented; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the Department
of General Services and the California Association of Re-
habilitation Workshops.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 281
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 133—
               Relative to state water projects.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Director of Water Re-
sources is requested to report to the Legislature after author-
izing or adopting any project or major feature of any project;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly and the
Secretary of the Senate transmit any report submitted to the
Legislature to the appropriate standing or interim water
committees; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Water Resources.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 282
          Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 151—
                Relative to Robert F. Fisher.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.J
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 284]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3955
   WHEREAS, Kobert F . Fisher is a noted agricultural leader
and a civic leader, and has been a resident of Humboldt County
since 1912; and
   WHEREAS, He is the last remaining Spanish-American War
Veteran in Humboldt County; and
   WHEREAS, He served the people of this county for three
terms in the State Assembly, having been elected by the people
of his district to the Assembly in 1926, 1928, and 1930; and
   WHEREAS, Robert Fisher has long been a highly respected
and admired community leader in the Carlotta-Hydesville area
of Humboldt County; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the new bridge over Yager
Creek on State Highway Route 36 at Carlotta is hereby offi-
cially designated the Robert F . Fisher Bridge; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Department of Public Works is hereby
requested to erect and maintain appropriate signs on such
bridge showing the official designation; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Public Works.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 283
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 156—Relative to making
  additional funds available to the Joint Legislative Audit
  Committee.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That in addition to any money
heretofore made available to it, the sum of six hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($650,000), or so much thereof as may be
necessary, is hereby made available from the Contingent
Funds of the Assembly and Senate for the payment of any
and all expenses of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee
 (created by Section 10501 of the Government Code) and its
members and for any charges, expenses, or claims it may incur,
to be paid from the said fund and disbursed, after certifi-
cation by the chairman of the committee, upon warrants drawn
by the State Controller upon the State Treasurer.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 284
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 212—Relative to the In-
     ternational Association on Water Pollution Research.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]
3956              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 284

   WHEREAS, The International Association on Water Pollu-
tion Research was formed in 1960 to bring scientists and engi-
neers from throughout the world together in the fight against
water pollution; and
   WHEBEAS, The objectives of the association are to contribute
to a better understanding of water pollution problems, to en-
courage the exchange of scientific knowledge to better enable
the nations of the world to combat water pollution problems,
to narrow the gap between actual and optimum use of water
resources, and thus to contribute to continuing social and eco-
nomic progress; and
   WHEREAS, A lack of maximum communication and coordina-
tion between research programs has retarded efforts to effec-
tively utilize all funds available for water pollution research
performed in various countries; and
   WHEREAS, Efforts by the International Association on
Water Pollution Research have materially assisted in allevi-
ating duplication in pollution research, have fostered the ex-
change of scientific research data, and have significantly bene-
fited all nations in their programs to control water pollution;
and
   WHEREAS, The international association has sponsored bi-
annual conferences on water pollution research which have
provided scientists, engineers, and administrators a forum for
formulating an international activities program to permit
concerted and cooperative water pollution research; and
   WHEREAS, The Fifth International Conference on Water
Pollution Research has been scheduled for San Francisco,
California, from July 26 through August 1, 1970; and
   WHEREAS, The activities of the international association
have assisted in the maintenance of effective water pollution
research and have facilitated the development of an effective
attack upon problems of water pollution to the benefit of all
nations; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
International Association on Water Pollution Research for its
contributions to the development of a broader scientific knowl-
edge of water pollution problems; and be it further
   Resolved, That the members find and declare that the Fifth
International Conference on Water Pollution Research, which
will be held in San Francisco from July 26 through August 1,
1970, will deal with one of the most important problems of
modern civilization and is, additionally, of tremendous im-
portance to the continued growth, prosperity, and well-being
of the people of the State of California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the members request the Governor, all state
departments and agencies, and other interested persons and
organizations, both public and private, to support the Fifth
International Conference on Water Pollution Research and to
assist and cooperate fully with the International Association
                     1969
Res. Ch. 2851               REGULAR SESSION                   3957

on Water Pollution Eesearch, the United States National Com-
mittee, and the California Host Committee IAWPR—1970 in
making the 1970 conference the best, most productive, and
most successful yet held; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Governor, the Secretary of the
Resources Agency, the Director of Water Resources, and the
State Water Resources Control Board.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 285
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 236—Relative to
     Redlands Day at the San Bernardino County Fair.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, I n the year 1881 the community of Redlands was
founded, a township situated in the beautiful San Bernardino
Valley, encircled by majestic snow-capped mountains, taking
its name from the color of the earth in the area; and
   WHEREAS, Upon incorporation in 1888, Redlands was soon
known as a city of rare charm and beauty, becoming a popular
resort for eastern visitors drawn by the mild climate and at-
tractive residential sections of this land of sunshine, oranges
and flowers; and
   WHEREAS, The City of Redlands' reputation as an out-
standing residential, cultural and educational community is
widely known and appreciated, with the community character-
ized by many lovely hillside homes affording breathtaking
vistas of the valley below, the University of Redlands, public
art galleries and libraries, little theater groups, as well as
concerts in the world-famous Redlands Bowl; and
   WHEREAS, Long known as the navel orange capital of the
world, Redlands has diversified its industry and commerce in
recent years successfully adding to its economic prosperity and
stability; and
   WHEREAS, Redlands has by all these attributes made an out-
standing contribution to the County of San Bernardino and
the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, On August 28, 1969, the Board of Directors of
the San Bernardino County Fair will honor the City of Red-
lands by declaring August 28, 1969, to be Redlands Day at the
San Bernardino County F a i r ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature congratulate
and commend the citizens of Redlands on the occasion of Red-
lands Day at the San Bernardino County F a i r ; and be it fur-
ther
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to the Mayor of the
City of Redlands.
3958               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Ch. 286

               EESOLUTION CHAPTER 286
Assembly Joint Resolution No. 48—Relative to uniform            nation-
             wide standards of public assistance.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, It has long been the policy of the state and coun-
ties of California to provide public assistance for needy citi-
zens on a more adequate level than most states; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature finds that the absence of uni-
form and equitable standards of aid to the needy among the
several states is a factor contributing significantly to the rising
number of public assistance recipients in California who have
recently migrated from other states; and
   WHEREAS, Recent changes in federal welfare laws and regu-
lations have shifted a greater financial burden to the state and
counties of California and thus reduced the federal share of
welfare costs; and
   WHEREAS, Recent court decisions and increased caseload
growth have combined to greatly increase state and county
welfare costs so that the situation is approaching crisis pro-
portions; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and Congress of the
United States to establish uniform and equitable standards of
aid on a nationwide basis in order to permit needy persons
to be more adequately aided in their native states and thus
reduce the impetus to migration because of unmet need; and
be it further
   Resolved, That pending the establishment of equitable stand-
ards of aid on a nationwide basis, the federal government
finance public assistance payments made to recipients who do
not meet the length of residence requirements that were oper-
ative in California and other states before being declared void
by federal courts, and that such federal financing continue in
each case until the length of residency requirements that were
in existence have been met by each recipient; and be it further
   Resolved, That the apparent policy of the federal govern-
ment to shift an ever greater proportion of the cost of welfare
to the states be reversed in view of the greater elasticity of
federal tax bases and resources over those available to state
and local governments; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 288]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3959

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 287
         Assembly Joint Resolution No. 52—Relative to
               the California Maritime Academy.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The California Maritime Academy has been estab-
lished to prepare students for a maritime profession; and
   WHEREAS, The academy is of benefit to the State of
California and the federal government and has been funded by
both the state and federal governments; and
   WHEREAS, The State of California currently funds 65.7 per-
cent of the academy's cost which is an increase of 16.5 percent
since 1959-60; and
   WHEREAS, The federal government currently funds 17.9 per-
cent of the academy's budget which is a decrease of 8.3 percent
since 1959-60; and
   WHEREAS, The decreased percent of federal funding is due to
a fixed dollar amount formula which does not change for
normal price and program cost increases; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of
California, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of Califor-
nia respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress
of the United States to increase the federal government's share
of funding for the California Maritime Academy to its pre-
vious level; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President of
the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives, to each Senator and Representative from California in
the Congress of the United States, and the Board of Governors
of the California Maritime Academy.


                   EESOLUTION CHAPTER 288
          Assembly Joint Resolution No. 59—Relative
             to federal-aid primary highway funds.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The federal-aid primary highway system in Cali-
fornia includes some of the nation's best known routes, such
as Route 101 on the California coast, Route 50 from Sacra-
mento to Lake Tahoe, and Route 1, the Pacific Coast Highway,
from Ventura to San Clemente; and
   WHEREAS, The geographical expanse of California lends
itself to use of the motor vehicle as the primary means of
meeting the transportation needs of the people of this state;
and
3960                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [ R e s . Ch. 289

    WHEREAS, The Eedwood National Park and Point Reyes
 National Park have recently been established within the state
 and these parks will generate additional traffic on federal-aid
 primary system as well as our state highways in areas of the
 state where such systems are already seriously inadequate to
 service present traffic demands; and
    WHEREAS, The improvement of a large portion of the mile-
 age on this system which is needed now cannot be budgeted
 because of the lack of funds; and
    WHEREAS, Federal gasoline taxes collected are approxi-
 mately 20 percent greater than the road funds returned to
 California from the federal government; and
    WHEREAS, Substantial deficiencies in federal, state and local
 highways and roads in California would seem to indicate a
 greater portion of federal funds should be returned to Cali-
 fornia to help meet its highway needs; and
    WHEREAS, The method for distributing federal funds to the
 states for use on the primary system was first developed in
 1916 and is based upon one-third population, one-third area,
 and one-third post road mileage; and
    WHEREAS, The California Department of Public Works is
 now undertaking a federally mandated functional classification
 study of all streets and highways in the state; and
    WHEREAS, Such functional classification study may substan-
 tially affect the distribution of federal funds throughout the
 state; and
    WHEREAS, Additional factors, such as miles of roadway,
number of fatal and injury accidents, vehicle miles traveled,
and motor vehicle registrations should be considered in dis-
tributing funds; now, therefore, be it
    Besolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to enact legislation to provide for the dis-
tribution of federal-aid primary highway funds on a more
currently realistic basis than the outdated formula now used;
and be it further
   Besolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, the Secretary of the Department of
Transportation, the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in
the Congress of the United States.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 289
Assembly Joint Besolution No. 47—Belative to the federal
  food-stamp and commodity distribution programs in Cali-
  fornia.
            [Filed with Secretary ol State August 8, 1969.]
                      1969
Res. Ch. 290]                REGULAR SESSION                  3961

   WHEREAS, The Congress has created food-stamp and com-
modity distribution programs, which have been implemented
by legislative action in California; and
   WHEREAS, These programs were designed by Congress to
provide surplus food to the hungry and needy " t o the maxi-
mum extent practicable''; and
   WHEREAS, On December 30, 1968, a federal court in San
Francisco ordered the United States Secretary of Agriculture
to immediately implement one or both of these food supple-
ment programs in every California county, but thus far the
secretary has taken no action to implement the programs in
counties of California which presently do not operate them;
and
   WHEREAS, The federal court also found that there is sub-
stantial hunger in each California county without a food sup-
plement program, and that sufficient federal funds are avail-
able to implement the programs; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully requests the President and Congress of the United
States to transfer the administration of the federal food-
stamp and commodity distribution programs from the United
States Department of Agriculture to the United States De-
partment of Health, Education, and Welfare, where their
implementation may receive a more favorable response; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the President and the Congress of the United
States are urged to investigate the reluctance of the United
States Department of Agriculture to implement these pro-
grams in California pursuant to federal court order to deter-
mine if congressional intent has not been observed; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, to the Secretary of Agriculture, to the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, and to each Senator and
Representative from California in the Congress of the United
States.

                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 290
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 14—Relative to the creation
  of the Joint Committee on Reorganization of Large Urban
  School Districts.
            [Piled with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, As follows:
  1. The Joint Committee on Reorganization of Large Urban
Unified School Districts is hereby created and authorized and
3962               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 290

directed to ascertain, study and analyze all facts relating to the
Los Angeles City School District and the advisability, from
a governmental and educational standpoint, of dividing the
 district into smaller units or of any other suitable solution,
 including an analysis of the most practical methods and forms
of reorganization which would accomplish such a solution. The
committee shall also ascertain, study and analyze the whole
need of the Los Angeles City School District and the complex
problems facing the district as a result of the concentration
of minority groups, the heavy centralization of poverty in the
core area of the city, and the large size of the district. The
committee shall also study and analyze, including, but not
limited to, the operation, effect, administration, enforcement
and needed revision of any and all laws in any way bearing
upon or relating to the subject of this resolution, and to report
thereon to the Legislature, including in the report its recom-
mendations for appropriate legislation.
    2. The committee shall consist of five Members of the Senate,
 appointed by the Committee on Rules thereof, and five Mem-
bers of the Assembly, appointed by the Speaker thereof. Va-
cancies occurring in the membership of the committee shall be
filled by the appointing power.
    3. The committee is authorized to act during this session of
the Legislature, including any recess, and after final adjourn-
ment until the commencement of the 1970 Regular Session,
with authority to file its final report not later than June 30,
1970.
   4. The committee and each subcommittee thereof is author-
ized to leave the State of California in the performance of its
duties.
   5. The committee and its members shall have and exercise
all of the rights, duties and powers conferred upon investigat-
ing committees and their members by the provisions of the
Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly as they are adopted
and amended from time to time at this session, which provisions
are incorporated herein and made applicable to this committee
and its members.
   6. The committee has the following additional powers and
duties:
    (a) To select a chairman and a vice chairman from its mem-
bership.
    (b) To contract with such other agencies, public or private,
as it deems necessary for the rendition and affording of such
services, facilities, studies and reports to the committee as will
best assist it to carry out the purposes for which it is created.
    (c) To cooperate with and secure the cooperation of county,
city, city and county, and other local law enforcement agencies
in investigating any matter within the scope of this resolution
and to direct the sheriff of any county to serve subpoenas,
orders and other process issued by the committee.
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 291]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3963

   (d) To report its findings and recommendations to the Legis-
lature and to the people from time to time and at any time, not
later than herein provided.
   (e) To do any and all other things necessary or convenient
to enable it fully and adequately to exercise its powers, per-
form its duties, and accomplish the objects and purposes of this
resolution.
   7. The sum of eighty thousand dollars ($80,000) or so much
thereof as may be necessary is hereby made available from the
Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for the ex-
penses of the committee and its members and for any charges,
expenses or claims it may incur under this resolution, to be
paid from the said fund and disbursed, after certification by
the chairman of the committee, upon warrants drawn by the
State Controller upon the State Treasurer.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 291
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 67—Relative to
                        state highways.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The state highways of California are of extreme
importance to the growth of the state and the welfare of its
citizens; and
  WHEREAS, The emphasis of the Department of Public Works
in recent years has been upon the completion of the California
portions of interstate highways; and
   WHEREAS, State highways not included in the interstate
highway system have been given a low priority, resulting in
inadequate expansion and development of these highways;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members urge the Depart-
ment of Public Works and the California Highway Commission
to raise the priority level of construction of state highways
which are not a part of the interstate highway system and
to raise the financial expenditure on the improvement of these
highways; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the California Highway Commission and
to the Department of Public Works.
 3964               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Ch. 292

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 292
 Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 72—Relative to urging the
   Department of Mental Hygiene to apply the methods of the
   Geriatric Screening Project of San Francisco.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, Because of the spectacular results of the Geriatric
  Screening Project, initiated and funded by the 1963 Legisla-
  ture, the City and. County of San Francisco have made the
 project a permanent part of their program; and
    WHEREAS, The high rate of "inappropriate commitments"
  among our aged population has for many years harmed those
 so committed, overburdened the state facilities, and reduced
 the care available to those most in need; and
    WHEREAS, The small staff of highly trained persons from the
 Department of Mental Hygiene, working in cooperation with
 San Francisco Community Health Services, placed the empha-
 sis on screening patients in their home surroundings prior to
 admission to county facilities; and
    WHEREAS, Their efforts resulted in a drop in county admis-
 sions from 661 to 262 per year by 1967, and a staggering cut
 in state commitments from 306 in 1964 to 3 in 1967; and
    WHEREAS, Out of a total of 1,290 persons screened during
 1965, 1966, and 1967, the team found it possible to continue
 the care of 45 percent of these people in the security and com-
 fort of their own homes by the use of some supportive services;
 and
    WHEREAS, Out of the entire number screened during this
 period, 51 percent were placed in nursing homes, boarding
 homes, county and private medical hospitals, leaving an almost
 unbelievable 4 percent for commitment to state hospitals; and
    WHEREAS, The project was honored in 1966 by the APA
 Hospital and Community Psychiatry Service Achievement
 Award; and
    WHEREAS, The wide application of methods developed by this
project will result in great benefits to the individual geriatric
patients and will mean better and more concentrated care for
a smaller number of patients in state institutions, with sub-
stantial savings to the state; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved hy the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the Department of Mental Hy-
giene be urged to institute a statewide county-by-county pro-
gram to persuade the several counties to adopt methods
developed by the geriatric team; and be it further
   Resolved, That the department be requested to submit a pro-
gram report to the Legislature by the 30th day of the 1970
session; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Department of Mental Hygiene and
to the board of supervisors of each county.
                          1969
Res. Ch   293]                   REGULAR SESSION                   3965
                    RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 293
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 87—Relating to the estab-
  lishment of a school of veterinary medicine in southern Cali-
  fornia.
                 [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The 1965 Legislature adopted Assembly Concur-
rent Resolution No. 85 (Stats. 1965, Res. Ch. 151), calling
upon the Board of Regents of the University of California to
conduct an in-depth study of the feasibility and advisability
of establishing a second school of veterinary medicine to be
located in southern California in the near future; and
   WHEREAS, The regents thereafter instructed its staff to con-
duct such a study, and a report was rendered by a special
academic committee appointed by the president of the univer-
sity in May of 1966, but has not yet been made public; and
   WHEREAS, That report asserted that the establishment of
such a school in the southern part of the state was feasible and
would fulfill the pressing need for training an increased num-
ber of doctors of veterinary medicine in southern California;
and
   WHEREAS, This report has been held in confidence by univer-
sity officials because of their concern that initiation of a
school of veterinary medicine in southern California at this
time would interfere with the orderly development of other
university medical schools, but there is no evidence to support
this fear nor is there any justifiable connection or overlap
between the two types of institutions; and
   WHEREAS, The 1968 Legislature adopted Senate Concurrent
Resolution No. 66 (Stats. 1968, Res. Ch. 187) urging the
Board of Regents of the University of California to make
public this special report and to accelerate planning and
budgeting for a southern school of veterinary medicine;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the Board of Regents of
the University of California is urged to make public the
special report prepared in response to ACR 85 of the 1965
Regular Session of the Legislature; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Legislature strongly urges the board of
regents to accelerate planning and budgeting for a southern
California school of veterinary medicine, and to include
initial funds therefor in its 1970-71 budget proposals which
will be submitted to the Governor late this year; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to each member of the Board of Regents
of the University of California.
3966               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ R e s . Qh. 294

               KESOLUTION C H A P T E E 294
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 119—Relative to the Miller-
             Unruh Basic Reading Act of 1965.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, Sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000) was appro-
priated for the Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act of 1965 for
the 1968-1969 fiscal year; and
   WHEREAS, The inability of applicant school districts to em-
ploy the total number of specialist teachers in reading ap-
proved for funding by the Department of Education has
resulted in the allocation of less than the full appropriation;
 and
   WHEEEAS, Sufficient funds remain to provide for the em-
ployment on an annual basis of 77 additional specialist
teachers in reading; and
   WHEREAS, Other school districts would have become eligible
for funds for specialist teachers in reading had the inability
of approved applicant districts to employ the approved num-
ber of teachers been known at the time applications were
being approved for funding; and
   WHEREAS, Eligibility in the 1968-1969 fiscal year would have
placed such districts in a first priority position for the 1969-
1970 fiscal year as participating districts under the provisions
of Section 5792 of the Education Code; and
   WHEREAS, First priority position for the 1969-1970 fiscal
year is being denied these districts through unforeseen factors
over which the school district or the Department of Education
had no control; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the De-
partment of Education to include as participating districts
under the provisions of Section 5792 of the Education Code
for the 1969-1970 fiscal year, those districts which would have
received allocations for specialist teachers in reading had the
full appropriation of sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000) been
allocated for the 1968-1969 fiscal year; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Superintendent of Public Instruction.


               EESOLUTION CHAPTER 295
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 134—Relative to the Temple
            City Differentiated Staffing Program.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, The retention of experienced teachers is one of
the most important means of maintaining the excellent qual-
ity of the educational system in California; and
                         1969
Res. Ch. 296]                   REGULAR SESSION                         3967

   WHEREAS, The Temple City Differentiated Staffing Pro-
gram is a dynamic project that encourages teachers to stay
in teaching; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the
Department of Education to evaluate the Temple City Differ-
entiated Staffing Program for the purpose of determining
feasibility of its application in other school districts and to
determine the advisability of state expenditure for the estab-
lishment of other Temple City programs in these school dis-
tricts ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Department of Education.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 296
Senate Concurrent         Resolution No. 148—Relative             to   private
                                  schools.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, There are presently more than one thousand pri-
vately owned and operated schools, colleges, universities and
other institutions of higher education and post-high-school ed-
ucation in the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, Division 21 (commencing with Section 29001) of
the Education Code of the State of California governs the
operation of such diverse institutions as universities offering
the full spectrum of higher education and programs through
doctorate degrees, as well as proprietary schools and institutes
offering limited special courses and programs in technical,
occupational, vocational, and paraprofessional training; and
   WHEREAS, I t is the intent and policy of the Legislature to
encourage improvement and innovation in all areas of public
and private educational endeavor, and at the same time to pro-
tect the integrity of degrees offered by all institutions of higher
education in the state, public as well as private; and
   WHEREAS, The findings of a study of Division 21 of the Edu-
cation Code conducted pursuant to Senate Resolution 239 of
the 1968 Regular Session by the staff of the Senate Committee
on Education indicate that improvement in the functioning of
Division 21 is desirable and may be achieved by revising the
division; and
   WHEREAS, One of the functions of the Coordinating Council
for Higher Education is to provide advice regarding the de-
 velopment of plans and revisions of existing procedures re-
 garding higher education in the state; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
 sembly thereof concurring, That the Coordinating Council for
 Higher Education, with the cooperation of the State Depart-

    125—1954
396S              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [JJes. Ch. 297

ment of Education and the State Superintendent of Public
Instruction, is directed (1) to conduct a study on the implica-
tions contained in Senate Bill 1244 of the 1969 Eegular Ses-
sion regarding the revision of Division 21 of the Education
Code, (2) to develop alternate methods to those currently pro-
vided in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) of Section 29007 of
the Education Code for the establishment of new private insti-
tutions of higher education and for the development of addi-
tional courses of study and academic programs at such institu-
tions, and (3) to review the overall operation of Division 21 as
it currently functions within the state; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Coordinating Council for Higher Educa-
tion report to the Legislature on or before the fifth legis-
lative day of the 1970 Eegular Session as to its findings and
recommendations; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Coordinating Council for Higher Edu-
cation, the State Board of Education, and the State Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction.


               EESOLUTION CHAPTEE 297
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 151—Relative to
             Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta levees.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, as denned
in Section 12220 of the Water Code, has been subjected to
long periods of high flow during the first half of the 1969
calendar year; and
   WHEREAS, Much of the delta consists of lands below sea level
protected by a vast network of levee systems; and
   WHEREAS, A number of delta levees failed during the early
part of 1969, and others were threatened and seriously weak-
ened by such high flows and high tides; and
   WHEREAS, Many of the levees have been constructed by local
reclamation districts and a few have been constructed and
maintained by state and federal agencies as project levees, and
some areas are protected by both locally constructed and proj-
ect levees, necessitating high standards of maintenance on
locally constructed levees to insure the functioning of the
project levees; and
  WHEREAS, The failure of any of such levees results in severe
economic loss to the local area, the state, and the United
States; and
   WHEREAS, During times of emergency large sums of federal
and state moneys are expended to keep the various levee sys-
tems from failing and to repair levees which have failed; and
                      1969
Res. Ch. 2981                REGULAR SESSION                  3969

    WHEREAS, Many of the levees within the delta area have
 deteriorated over the years due to a variety of causes, and
 others must be periodically raised to offset settlement, and
 these levees may be subject to failure at almost any time; and
    WHEKEAS, I t has become increasingly recognized that preser-
 vation of natural beauty, shade, and wildlife habitat on the
 levees is important from a recreational and esthetic viewpoint;
 now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
 sembly thereof concurring, That the Department of "Water
Resources is requested to undertake a general review of the
condition of all levees within the Sacramento-San Joaquin
Delta area, with particular emphasis on those levees considered
to be substandard, and to include in such review a preliminary
evaluation of the factors and costs involved in bringing the
levees up to a safe condition and maintaining them in a safe
condition and the extent to which such improvements might
reduce the requirements of emergency expenditures; and be it
further
   Resolved, That in undertaking such review recognition be
given to those areas where growth on such levees or the berms
thereof can be permitted for esthetic purposes without en-
dangering the maintenance of safe levees; and be it further
   Resolved, That recommendations be made as to the sharing
by local, state, and federal governments of costs necessary to
bring such levees up to safe standards and for the continuous
operation and maintenance thereof, and as to a means of col-
lection of such costs; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Department of Water Resources is re-
quested to confer, in making its review, with local, federal, and
other state agencies, including the State Reclamation Board,
and flood control, recreational, and navigational interests, and
to submit a preliminary report to the Legislature not later
than February 1, 1970, containing recommendations on sur-
veys and studies that are necessary to develop a comprehensive
plan of action; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Water Resources.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 298
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 157—Relative to
                state water supply contracts.
            [Piled with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Department of Water Resources has entered
into 31 contracts for supplying water from the State Water
Resources Development System; and
3970                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Ch. 299

   WHEREAS, Occasions arise from time to time for amending
or interpreting such contracts; and
   WHEREAS, Some amendments or interpretations may deal
with decisions which have a significant impact on the financing
of the State Water Eesources Development System; and
   WHEREAS, I t is desirable that the Legislature, through its
water committees, be informed of these proposed decisions so
that the department can receive the benefit of their recom-
mendations; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Di-
rector of Water Eesources to inform the Legislature, through
copies presented to the Chairman of the Senate Committee on
Water Resources and the Chairman of the Assembly Water
Committee, of all proposed changes to the water supply con-
tracts, or policy determinations thereunder, which the director
deems to be of significant importance affecting project financ-
ing and feasibility or manner of meeting original commit-
ments to deliver water; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Director of Water Resources not enter
into any such major contract amendments or policy determi-
nations for 90 days after so notifying the legislative com-
mittees, unless prior to that time the committees present their
comments and recommendations thereon to the director, or
unless the director determines in a given situation that the
proposed amendments or policy determinations are of such
an urgent nature that immediate execution is required, in
which case he shall so notify the committees; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Water Resources.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 299
Senate Constitutional Amendment No. 26—A resolution to pro-
  pose to the people of the State of California an amendment
  to the Constitution of the state, by amending Section 1 of
  Article XVI thereof, relating to state indebtedness.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate, the Assembly concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-thirds
of the members elected to each of the two houses of the Legis-
lature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of the
State of California that the Constitution of the state be
amended by amending Section 1 of Article X V I thereof to
read:
   SECTION 1. The Legislature shall not, in any manner create
any debt or debts, liability or liabilities, which shall, singly or
                    1969
Kes. Ch. 299]              REGULAR SESSIOK                  3971
in the aggregate with any previous debts or liabilities, exceed
the sum of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000), except
in case of war to repel invasion or suppress insurrection, un-
less the same shall be authorized by law for some single object
or work to be distinctly specified therein which law shall pro-
vide ways and means, exclusive of loans, for the payment of
the interest of such debt or liability as it falls due, and also
to pay and discharge the principal of such debt or liability
within 50 years of the time of the contracting thereof, and
shall be irrepealable until the principal and interest thereon
shall be paid and discharged, and such law may make provision
for a sinking fund to pay the principal of such debt or liability
to commence at a time after the incurring of such debt or lia-
bility of not more than a period of one-fourth of the time of
maturity of such debt or liability; but no such law shall take
effect unless it has been passed by a two-thirds vote of all the
members elected to each house of the Legislature and until, at
a general election or at a direct primary, it shall have been
submitted to the people and shall have received a majority of
all the votes cast for and against it at such election; and all
moneys raised by authority of such law shall be applied only
to the specific object therein stated or to the payment of the
debt thereby created. Full publicity as to matters to be voted
upon by the people is afforded by the setting out of the com-
plete text of the proposed laws, together with the arguments
for and against them, in the ballot pamphlet mailed to each
elector preceding the election at which they are submitted, and
the only requirement for publication of such law shall be that
it be set out at length in ballot pamphlets which the Secretary
of State shall cause to be printed. The Legislature may, at any
time after the approval of such law by the people, reduce the
amount of the indebtedness authorized by the law to an amount
not less than the amount contracted at the time of the reduc-
tion, or it may repeal the law if no debt shall have been con-
tracted in pursuance thereof.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution,
Members of the Legislature who are required to meet with the
State Allocation Board shall have equal rights and duties with
the nonlegislative members to vote and act upon matters pend-
ing or coming before such board for the allocation and appor-
tionment of funds to school districts for school construction
purposes or purposes related thereto.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this constitution, or
of any bond act to the contrary, if any general obligation
bonds of the state heretofore or hereafter authorized by vote
of the people have been offered for sale and not sold, the Legis-
lature may raise the maximum rate of interest payable on all
general obligation bonds authorized but not sold, whether or
not such bonds have been offered for sale, by a statute passed
by a two-thirds vote of all members elected to each house
thereof.
3972               STATUTES OB- CALIFORNIA                [ R e s . C n . 300

   The provisions of Senate Bill No. 763 of the 1969 Regular
Session, which authorize an increase of the state general obli-
gation bond maximum interest rate from 5 percent to an
amount not in excess of 7 percent and eliminate the maximum
rate of interest payable on notes given in anticipation of the
sale of such bonds, are hereby ratified.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 300
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 55—Relative to the Univer-
      sity of California and the California State Colleges.
            [Piled with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature requests the
University of California and the California State Colleges, in
accepting applicants for enrollment, to utilize the following
priorities:
   (1) Applicants from the public junior colleges who have
successfully completed two academic years, 50 or more semester
units, of junior college work devoted primarily to courses of
study for which transfer credit is afforded by the California
State Colleges or the University of California.
   (2) Honorably discharged veterans of United States mili-
tary service who were residents of California at the time of
their induction into the military service and who are other-
wise eligible for admission. Such priority shall be granted only
with respect to the first such application which is made by
such persons, and in no case may more than 15 percent of
the students at a state college or university campus be given
priority pursuant to this provision.
   (3) Applicants who hold a certification document issued
by the State Board of Education upon partial fulfillment of
requirements, and applicants who hold an internship creden-
tial or provisional credential issued by the State Board of
Education. Such applicants, when otherwise qualified, shall be
admitted by the state colleges to late afternoon, evening, and
summer school classes when they are required to complete State
Board of Education requirements for a partial, provisionsal or
internship credential; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Regents of the University of Califor-
nia and the Trustees of the California State Colleges.
                      196S
Res. Cll. 3011               REGULAR SESSION                   3973
                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 301
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 155—Relative to
             memorializing Herbert Hoover, Jr.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, It was with the most sincere and profound sorrow
that the Members of the Legislature learned of the recent death
of Herbert Hoover, Jr., eldest son of our 3lst President, who
distinguished himself in the service of our country and of the
people of California; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Hoover, who was a graduate of Stanford
University, received a Master of Business Administration de-
gree from Harvard University, and received honorary degrees
from such notable institutions as New York University,
Rutgers University, Temple, University of Southern Califor-
nia, and Claremont Men's College; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Hoover served our country as Undersecretary
of State, special adviser to the Secretary of State, and con-
sultant to the governments of Chile, Venezuela, Iran, Brazil,
and Peru, and was decorated for his many public services; and
   WHEREAS, He served his fellow man and the people of this
state in many capacities over his long and distinguished career,
such as National Director of the Boys' Clubs of America,
Trustee of the University of Southern California and of Clare-
mont Men's College, Trustee of Freedoms Foundation at
Valley Forge, Trustee of the Americas Foundation, teaching
fellow at the California Institute of Technology, and as a
member of the research staff of Harvard Business School; and
   WHEREAS, Mr. Hoover also contributed greatly to the busi-
ness community of our state by serving as director of the
Southern California Edison Company, Monsanto Chemical
Company, Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company, Lockheed
Aircraft Corporation, State Chamber of Commerce, United
States Chamber of Commerce, and Automobile Club of South-
ern California, and as President of United Geophysical Com-
pany and President of Consolidated Engineering Corporation,
and as Chairman of the California Freeway Support Commit-
tee of the California State Chamber of Commerce; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the members express to his
family their sincere sympathy on the passing of Herbert
Hoover, J r . ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to Mrs. Herbert Hoover, Jr.,
to his daughters, Mrs. Richard Tatem Brigham and Mrs.
William Leland Vowles, and to his son, Herbert Hoover, I I I .
3974               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. Ch. 302

               EESOLUTION CHAPTER 302
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 159—Relative
                 to "Space Pioneers Day."
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The landing of two American astronauts on the
surface of the moon on July 20, 1969, is an event sure to be
remembered and honored by all future generations as an his-
torical landmark comparable to the discovery of America by
Columbus; and
  WHEREAS, Such an event should be commemorated in a
manner reflecting its historical significance; and
   WHEREAS, Corporations, scientists, engineers, technicians
and workingmen in California have played an essential part
in making this splendid achievement possible, thereby serving
their country and all mankind; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the
Assembly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested
to proclaim July 20 as " Space Pioneers D a y ' ' in honor of the
moon landing by American astronauts; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Senate and the Assembly of the State of
California respectfully memorialize the President and Con-
gress of the United States to designate July 20 as a permanent
national holiday to commemorate our space pioneers; and be it
further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Governor of California, to the Presi-
dent and Vice President of the United States, to the Speaker
of the House of Eepresentatives, and to each Senator and
Representative from California in the Congress of the United
States.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 303
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 160—Relative
               to Independent College Month.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Twenty-one of the finest liberal arts colleges of
the West are associated as the Independent Colleges of North-
ern California, Inc., and the Independent Colleges of Southern
California, Inc.; and
   WHEREAS, These colleges are: Chapman College, Claremont
Men's College, Claremont University Center, College of the
Holy Names, College of Notre Dame, Dominican College of
San Rafael, Immaculate Heart College, La Verne College,
Loyola University, Mount St. Mary's College, Occidental
College, Pepperdine College, Pitzer College, Saint Mary's Col-
lege, San Francisco College for Women, Scripps College, Uni-
                      1969
Bes. Ch. 304]                REGULAR SESSION                   3975

versity of the Pacific, University of Redlands, University of
Santa Clara, Westmont College, and Whittier College; and
   WHEREAS, These colleges, now educating nearly 30,000 stu-
dents for greater service to society, are sustained through vol-
untary support, thus removing from the tax burden the educa-
tion of these students; and
   WHEREAS, Independent Colleges of Northern California,
Inc., and Independent Colleges of Southern California, Inc.,
have demonstrated the value of cooperative effort between
these two associations and the business and industrial corpora-
tions of California in the development of voluntary financial
support totaling nine million dollars over the past 16 years;
and
   WHEREAS, The private colleges represent the vital freedom
of choice, strengthening the pluralism and diversity important
to higher education in California; and
   WHEREAS, Their graduates enter society as intelligent em-
ployees, discriminating customers, responsible citizens and
civic leaders; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members encourage wide-
spread participation by all the citizens of California in whole-
heartedly backing these colleges in every way and request the
Governor to proclaim the month of September as Independent
College Month; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Si Fluor and a copy
of this resolution to Governor Reagan.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 304
    Senate Joint Resolution No. 33—Relative to the Marine
            Mineral Technology Center in Tiburon.
            [Filed with Secretary of State Aug-ust 8, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, There are indications that the 1970 Budget of
 the Marine Mineral Technology Center of the Bureau of Mines
in Tiburon, California, is being reduced to the extent that the
center will be required to dismiss 35 to 45 employees and to
suspend operation of the research vessel "Virginia C i t y " ;
and
   WHEREAS, The Marine Mineral Technology Center of the
Bureau of Mines is concerned with the vital development of
unknown mineral resources of the ocean waters along the
Pacific Coast and is a function necessary for the entire United
States because, with the constant Soviet operations along the
Pacific Coast to determine the extent and possibilities of min-
eral and fishing wealth, it is imperative that our country be
the first to obtain such knowledge; and
 3976              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. Ch. 305

    WHEREAS, Curtailment of budget funds for the center would
 eliminate its offshore operations and limit accomplishments in
 the marine mineral field by the center; and
    WHEREAS, The Marine Mineral Technology Center urgently
 requires reinstatement of approximately $600,000 to its work-
 ing capital to continue the well-established work in the marine
mining program on the Continental Shelf; now, therefore,
be it
    Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to give prompt and full approval to the
budget requirements of the Marine Mineral Technology Center
in Tiburon, California, so that its invaluable services in behalf
of the national interest may be sustained and implemented;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Eepresentative from California in
the Congress of the United States.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 305
        Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 68—Relative
                 to awards to state employees.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 9, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, Section 13926 of the Government Code provides
 awards may be made to state employees in excess of one
 hundred fifty dollars ($150) when such awards are approved
 by concurrent resolution of the Legislature; and
    WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to Betty L. Divine, Public Utilities
 Commission, for a suggestion that results in annual savings
 of six thousand one hundred eighty-nine dollars ($6,189) by
 recommending an improved system for processing and filing
 financial reports filed by utilities and motor carriers; and
    WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Kendall A. Pratt, Department of
Rehabilitation, for a suggestion that results in annual savings
of three thousand one hundred forty-six dollars ($3,146) by
recommending improved methods of purchasing and utilizing
raw materials used in the manufacture of hospital sterilization
wrappers by the Industries for the Blind; and
    WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Fred Rayburn, Division of High-
ways, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of thir-
teen thousand seven hundred nine dollars ($13,709) by recom-
                    1969
Bes. Ch. 305]              REGULAR SESSION                 3977

 mending that 20,000-lumen mercury vapor lamps be replaced
 every three (3) years instead of every two (2) years; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to Myrtle L. Gillenwaters, Department
 of Motor Vehicles, for a suggestion that resulted in a one-time
 saving of twenty-six thousand seventy-three dollars ($26,073)
 by recommending an improved procedure for the transfer of
 ownership of confiscated vehicles; and
   "WHEEEAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Howard E. Allen, Department of
Fish and Game, for a suggestion that results in annual sav-
ings of twelve thousand five hundred ninety-six dollars ($12,-
 596) by designing and recommending a mechanical fish feeder
for hatchery use; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Gregory McNew, Division of High-
ways, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of eight
thousand one hundred fifty dollars ($8,150) by recommending
an improved system for contracting utility services; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Madelen O. Smith, Department of
Vocational Rehabilitation, for a suggestion that results in an-
nual savings of six thousand nine hundred seventeen dollars
 ($6,917) by recommending an improved method of encumber-
ing and disencumbering funds for medical services; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Earl R. Watson, California High-
way Patrol, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of
two thousand one hundred seventy-three dollars ($2,173) by
recommending use of a form letter in lieu of dictated letters
in responding to notice of Vehicle Code violation inquiries;
and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Donald O. Farley, Department of
Corrections, for a suggestion that results in reoccurring sav-
ings of four thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($4,250) by
recommending sealing and waterproofing only, instead of
planned repainting, of brick cottages at the California Institu-
tion for Women; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150),
divided evenly, has already been made to Pauline M. Dennis,
Ronald L. Smith, Richard H. Sulik and Wesley M. Fakunding,
Board of Equalization, for a suggestion that results in annual
savings of two thousand one hundred eighty-six dollars ($2,-
186) by recommending that cents be rounded to the nearest
whole dollar on machine-prepared Forms BT-414, titled Audi-
tors' Work Sheet—Sales and Use Tax; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150),
divided evenly, has already been made to Richard E. Mc-
Nurlan, Department of Rehabilitation, Wayne Livesay, Bruce
J. Martin and Raymond E. Maynard, Department of Correct
3978              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 305

 tions, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of six
 thousand nine hundred twelve dollars ($6,912) by recommend-
 ing a master pass list procedure to replace issuance of indi-
 vidual passes to residents and inmates required to appear for
 various appointments; and
    WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to "William T. Burton, Department of
 Mental Hygiene, for a suggestion that results in annual sav-
 ings of sixteen hundred forty-five dollars ($1,645) by design-
 ing and recommending use of a shock absorber, to replace
 more expensive hydropads, to eliminate hydraulic shock in
 water lines; and
    WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to Joan E. Taylor, California Highway
 Patrol, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of two
 thousand four hundred twenty-one dollars ($2,421) by recom-
 mending an improved version of the form set, CHP 281,
 Notice of Vehicle Code Violation and the discontinuance of
 the postcard form, CHP 282, Violation Clearance Notice; and
    WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to William F. Brock, Department of
 Conservation, for a suggestion that results in annual savings
 of fifteen thousand two hundred forty dollars ($15,240) by
 recommending that the mailing of district monthly activity
 reports to field offices be discontinued; and
    WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to Verl H. Rasmussen, San Fernando
 Valley State College, for a suggestion that results in annual
 savings of two thousand six hundred dollars ($2,600) by de-
 signing and installing a conveyor system to carry records and
 charts between the three buildings of the college's health cen-
 ter ; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Leland S. Roberts, Board of Equal-
ization, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of
forty-three thousand seven hundred fifty-nine dollars ($43,-
759) by recommending an improved procedure for obtaining
information from the Department of Harbors and Watercraft
for the purpose of identifying taxable vessel sales and trans-
fers; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Beauford H. Dunn, Department of
General Services, for a suggestion that results in annual sav-
ings of three thousand six hundred forty-four dollars ($3,644)
by designing, building and installing delivery sheet guide
fingers on the Dart press at the State Printing Plant, to in-
crease press speed and production; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Everett B. Eggleston, Department
of Mental Hygiene, for a suggestion that results in annual
savings of thirteen thousand two hundred eight dollars ($13,-
                    1969
Res. Ch. 305]              REGULAR SESSION                  3979

208) by recommending use of transparent polycarbonate
sheets instead of window glass at state hospitals, to replace
glass where breakage is excessive and where one-hour fire
separation is not required; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Howard F . Buchanan, Department
of General Services, for a suggestion that results in annual
savings of four thousand one hundred ninety-four dollars
 ($4,194) by recommending that the air supply and exhaust
dampers in the Resources Building be controlled automatically
rather than manually, in order to reduce power and gas
costs; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150),
divided evenly, has already been made to Derry D. Burnett
and Charles E. Wrye, California Highway Patrol, for a sug-
gestion that results in annual savings of eight thousand seven
hundred dollars ($8,700) by recommending that the Sacra-
mento Stores Unit consolidate certain shipments to field offices
with split deliveries, in order to take advantage of lower freight
rates; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Wellington W. Brockman, Depart-
ment of Corrections, for a suggestion that results in annual
savings of one thousand nine hundred eight dollars ($1,908)
by recommending use of a generator-powered emergency light-
ing system, at the Sierra Conservation Center, instead of a
planned and budgeted battery-powered emergency lighting
system; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Edith L. Vaaler, Division of Bay Toll
Crossings, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of
nine thousand four hundred eighty dollars ($9,480) by rec-
ommending the elimination of the second verification count
of toll collectors' tickets; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150) has
already been made to Worley C. Jones, Jr., California High-
way Patrol, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of
two thousand nine hundred ninety dollars ($2,990) by recom-
mending that forms titled "Authority to Release Informa-
tion," be mailed to all potential state traffic officer applicants
at the same time the form titled ' ' Confidential Applicant Ques-
tionnaire" is mailed; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150) h a s
already been made to Del P. Bramlette, Division of Highways,
for a suggestion that results in annual savings of one thousand
eight hundred fifty dollars ($1,850) by designing and recom-
mending use of a portable barge to facilitate soil investigation
by the Bridge Department; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has been made to Frank R. Dias, Department of Motor Vehi-
cles, for a suggestion that results in annual savings of n i n e
3980              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Jfe^ (ft. g 0 §

 thousand fifty-six dollars ($9,056) by recommending use of an
 improved procedure for verifying applications for duplicate
 ownership certificates; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to David M. Ferguson, Department of
 General Services, for a suggestion that results in annual sav-
 ings of one thousand nine hundred fifty-seven dollars ($1,957)
 by designing and recommending use of a rolling carriage for
 swing stage scaffolding, used in window cleaning and other
 exterior building maintenance, that permits horizontal move-
 ment of the scaffolding without raising it after each drop; and
   "WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150),
 divided evenly, has already been made to Virgil L. Schroyer
 and Samuel Gray, Department of Corrections, for a suggestion
 that results in annual savings of five thousand six hundred
 eighty-one dollars ($5,681) by designing and recommending
 the manufacture and use of shipping pallets, constructed from
 discarded cylindrical paper cores received with shipments of
 rolled paper; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
 has already been made to Oscar J. Madsen, Department of
 Fish and Game, for a suggestion that resulted in a one-time
 saving of three thousand six hundred sixteen dollars ($3,616)
by developing and recommending use of a method of rejuve-
nating circular wooden hatchery tanks; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to James G. Updegraff, Department of
Banking, for a suggestion that results in added annual income
of two thousand one hundred five dollars ($2,105) by recom-
mending a procedure that provides for earlier receipt and
deposit of annual bank assessments; and
   WHEREAS, An award of one hundred fifty dollars ($150)
has already been made to Esther L. Fountain, Department of
Employment, for a suggestion that results in annual savings
of ninety-seven thousand dollars ($97,000) by recommending
use of an improved procedure for the mailing of claim notices
to employers; and
   WHEREAS, The suggestions of these employees have resulted
in one-time and recurring savings and recurring added income
amounting to three hundred twenty-three thousand three
hundred fifty-five dollars ($323,355); and
   WHEREAS, A S a result of these savings and added income it
is unnecessary to appropriate additional funds for the payment
of these awards; now therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the following additional
awards, which have been approved by the State Board of
Control, are hereby authorized to the employees named:
   Betty L. Divine, four hundred sixty-nine dollars ($469);
   Kendall A. Pratt, one hundred sixty-five dollars ($165);
                     1969
Res. Ch. 3051               REGULAR SESSION                3981

   Fred Rayburn, one thousand two hundred twenty-one dollars
 ($1,221);
   Myrtle L. Gillenwaters, one thousand one hundred fifty-three
 dollars ($1,153);
   Howard E. Allen, one thousand one hundred ten dollars
 ($1,110);
   Gregory McNew, two hundred fifty-seven dollars ($257);
   Madelen 0 . Smith, five hundred forty-one dollars ($541);
   Earl R. Watson, fifty dollars ($50);
   Donald 0 . Farley, two hundred seventy-five dollars ($275);
   Pauline M. Dennis, seventeen dollars ($17) ;
   Ronald L. Smith, seventeen dollars ($17);
   Richard H. Sulik, seventeen dollars ($17);
   Wesley M. Fakunding, seventeen dollars ($17);
   Richard E. McNurlan, one hundred thirty-five dollars ($135);
   Wayne Livesay, one hundred thirty-five dollars ($135);
   Bruce J. Martin, one hundred thirty-five dollars ($135);
   Raymond E. Maynard, one hundred thirty-five dollars ($135);
   William T. Burton, fourteen dollars ($14);
   Joan E. Taylor, ninety-two dollars ($92);
   William F . Brock, one thousand three hundred seventy-four
dollars ($1,374);
   Verl H. Rasmussen, one hundred ten dollars ($110);
   Leland S. Roberts, four thousand two hundred twenty-five
dollars ($4,225);
   Beauford H. Dunn, two hundred fourteen dollars ($214);
   Everett B. Eggleston, five hundred ten dollars ($510);
   Howard F . Buchanan, two hundred sixty-nine dollars ($269);
   Derry D. Burnett, three hundred sixty dollars ($360);
   Charles E. Wrye, three hundred sixty dollars ($360);
   Wellington W. Brockman, forty dollars ($40);
   Edith L. Vaaler, seven hundred ninety-eight dollars ($798);
   Worley C. Jones, Jr., one hundred forty-nine dollars ($149) ;
   Del P. Bramlette, thirty-five dollars ($35);
   Frank R. Dias, six hundred sixty-five dollars ($665) ;
  David M. Ferguson, forty-six dollars ($46);
  Virgil L. Schroyer, two hundred nine dollars ($209) ;
   Samuel Gray, two hundred nine dollars ($209);
  Oscar J. Madsen, thirty dollars ($30);
  James G. Updegraff, sixty dollars ($60) ;
  Esther L. Fountain, four thousand six hundred dollars
($4,600); and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly is directed
to transmit a copy of this resolution to the State Board of
Control and the State Controller.
3982                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                    [Res. Ch. 306

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 306
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 210—Relative to a study
  of state subventions for controlling campus disturbances.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 9, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, Current events in higher education have resulted
 in law enforcement expenses for controlling disturbances on
 the campuses of the University of California, the California
 State Colleges, and the public junior colleges; and these ex-
 penses have been borne by the local taxpayer and his com-
 munity; and
    WHEREAS, There is a wide spectrum of opinion regarding
 provision for these expenses; and
    WHEREAS, Proposals have been put forth requiring the local
community to cover such expenses, on the ground that a col-
lege or university campus is an economic asset to the commu-
nity, and any liability should also accrue to the community,
 although this might put a strain on this community; and
    WHEREAS, Still other proposals would request aid from the
 General Fund of the State of California in covering such ex-
penses, on the ground that the state finances public higher
education in general, although it is local agencies that furnish
law enforcement assistance; and
   WHEREAS, All of these questions require careful considera-
tion in arriving at a viable solution to the problem; and
   WHEREAS, The report of the Select Committee on Campus
Disturbances has recommended this area for further legislative
study; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee study the subject of state subventions to local gov-
ernment for law enforcement expense for controlling disturb-
ances on the campuses of public higher education in Califor-
nia ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Joint Legislative Budget Committee re-
port its findings and recommendations to the Legislature not
later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 307
    Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 243—Relative to
                Redwood Discovery Day.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 9, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The coast redwood of California is the tallest and
most famous of trees and in combination with the redwood of
the Sierra has been declared the official tree of the State of
California; and
                      1969
Kes. Ch. 308]                REGULAR SESSION                  3983

   "WHEREAS, Sequoia sempervirens is also the largest useful
 plant on earth, providing more than a quarter-billion dollars
 worth of products each year, direct employment for 20,000
 persons, and economic stability to many communities in the 15-
 county redwood region; and
   WHEREAS, Outside the 175,000 acres of Sequoia sempervirens
 forever saved in governmental parks and reserves, the com-
 mercial forests are being managed by enlightened practices
 that will assure a supply of redwood timber in perpetuity at
 the present annual level of harvest; and
   WHEREAS, The recent creation of a Eedwood National P a r k
 has focused the attention and concern of peoples around the
world on the need to both wisely use this great renewable
 resource and to carefully preserve outstanding specimens;
and
   WHEREAS, The year 1969 is being observed as the bicenten-
nial of the beginnings of many events of historical, cultural
and economic significance to the State of California, including
the discovery of the coast redwood in Santa Cruz County by
Pray Juan Crespi, diarist and chaplain of the Don Gaspar de
Portola expedition; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members urge Governor
Ronald Reagan to proclaim Friday, October 10, 1969, as Red-
wood Bicentennial Discovery Day in honor of the bold men of
the Portola party and in recognition of the continuing bounty,
esthetic and economic, provided to all citizens by our official
state tree; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to Governor Ronald Reagan.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 308
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 7—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by amending Section
  1 of Article IT thereof, relating to voting  requirements.
            [Piled with Secretary of State August 9, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular
Session commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-
thirds of the members elected to each of the two houses of
the Legislature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people
of the State of California that the Constitution of the state
be amended by amending Section 1 of Article I I thereof, to
read:
  SECTION 1. Every native citizen of the United States of
America, every person who shall have acquired the rights of
3984               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ R e S - Qh. 309

citizenship under and by virtue of the Treaty of Queretaro,
and every naturalized citizen thereof, who shall have become
such ninety days prior to any election, of the age of 21 years,
who shall have been a resident of the State one year next pre-
ceding the day of the election, and of the county in which he
or she claims his or her vote ninety days, and in the election
precinct fifty-four days, shall be entitled to vote at all elections
which are now or may hereafter be authorized by law; pro-
vided, any person duly registered as an elector in one precinct
and removing therefrom to another precinct in the same county
within fifty-four days, or any person duly registered as an elec-
tor in any county in California and removing therefrom to
another county in California within ninety days prior to an
election, shall for the purpose of such election be deemed to be
a resident and qualified elector of the precinct or county from
which he so removed until after such election; provided,
further, no alien ineligible to citizenship, no idiot, no insane
person, no person convicted of any infamous crime, no person
hereafter convicted of the embezzlement or misappropriation
of public money, and no person who shall not be able to read
the Constitution in the English language or in the Spanish
language and write his or her name, shall ever exercise the
privileges of an elector in this State; provided, that the pro-
visions of this amendment relative to an educational qualifica-
tion shall not apply to any person prevented by a physical
disability from complying with its requisitions, nor to any per-
son who had the right to vote on October 10, 1911, nor to any
person who was 60 years of age and upwards on October 10,
1911; provided, further, that the Legislature may, by general
law, provide for the casting of votes by duly registered voters
who expect to be absent from their respective precincts or un-
able to vote therein, by reason of physical disability, on the
day on which any election is held.



                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 309
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 25—Relative to rules and
            regulations of conduct on campuses.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 13, 1969.]

  "WHEREAS, Recent riots and disturbances on campuses
throughout the state have caused harm to persons, damage to
property, and disruption of the educational process; and
  WHEREAS, This has imposed a heavy financial burden on the
people of the state who support the educational process; and
   WHEREAS, The education of the students, in these instances,
has been disrupted to their detriment; and
  WHEREAS, Testimony before the Select Committee on Cam-
pus Disturbances indicated that many school officials have not
                     1969
Res. Ch. 310]               REGULAR SESstoM                   3985

 been fully cognizant of the many statutory provisions available
to them through the Penal Code and the Education Code to
control acts of violence and campus disturbances; and
   WHEREAS, The Regents of the University of California, the
 Trustees of the California State Colleges, the Board of Gov-
ernors of the California Community Colleges, and the govern-
ing boards of school districts should adopt rules and regula-
tions governing the conduct of the students of, staff of, and
visitors to the campuses and other properties owned or con-
trolled by these bodies, and make it clear that these rules,
regulations, and statutory provisions will be enforced; and
   WHEREAS, Testimony before the Select Committee on Cam-
pus Disturbances indicated that judicious application of rules,
regulations, and the law has succeeded in preventing disruptive
activities on some campuses; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members respectfully urge the
Eegents of the University of California, the Trustees of the
 California State Colleges, the Board of Governors of the Cali-
fornia Community Colleges, and the governing boards of school
districts to take immediate action to make all personnel con-
cerned with campus control cognizant of the multitude of exist-
ing rules, regulations, and statutory provisions which are avail-
able to them to control disorders, and to file criminal charges
and institute disciplinary proceedings, where appropriate,
against those individuals who aid, abet, or participate in illegal
disruptive activities; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Eegents of the University of California,
the Trustees of the California State Colleges, the Board of
Governors of the California Community Colleges, and the State
Board of Education.

                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 310
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 124—Relative
            to preserving the town of Allensworth.
           [Piled with Secretary of State August 13, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The town of Allensworth, located in the central
portion of the San Joaquin Valley, in Tulare County, was
founded by an ex-slave, Colonel Allen Allensworth; and
   WHEREAS, Colonel Allensworth, born into slavery and sold
twice on the open slave market, fled the institution of slavery
and joined the Union forces during this country's bloodiest
war; and
  WHEREAS, He fought for his freeedom, and attained the
highest commissioned rank held by a black military official
during his time; and
  WHEREAS, Colonel Allensworth's dream was to establish a
black community somewhere in California—a place where his
3986               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Eeg   Qb. 310

people could live in peace and control and direct the course
of their lives; and
  WHEKEAS, After his retirement from the military he formed
a group called the California Home Improvement Association,
which in 1908 founded the town of AUensworth, so named in
honor of the colonel; and
   WHEREAS, The original townsite, containing approximately
80 acres, grew within a few years, under the leadership of the
colonel, to a few hundred families eking a bare subsistence out
of the harsh alkaline ground while struggling to maintain and
realize their dream; and
   WHEREAS, For Colonel AUensworth, whose life was claimed
in a tragic accident in mid-1914, the reality of his dream was
short lived, but others in the settlement came forward to as-
sume the roles of town leaders and the settlement continued to
exist through World War I and the great depression, at which
time it experienced its largest population; and
   WHEREAS, World War I I with its industrial manpower de-
mand sounded the death knell for AUensworth, which expe-
rienced a rapid population decrease continuing until the town
was virtually uninhabited and today only a few people occupy
the site of this noble pioneering experiment; and
   WHEREAS, Because land farming corporations are on the
verge of purchasing the original townsite, in a few short years
all traces of this historically significant contribution to the de-
velopment of our great state will be lost forever; and
   WHEREAS, The opportunity to preserve this history is con-
fronting us now and in preserving it we will be saying that
we see the futility that has borne the fruit of unrest in our
time; and
   WHEREAS, Recognizing those roots, we can now graft new
growth onto them and begin to cultivate a more peaceful
harvest—one of understanding and respect for the contribu-
tion that black pioneers have made to the development of
California and the West; and
   WHEREAS, Preliminary investigations throughout the Central
Valley have shown an enthusiastic attitude and great concern
over the preservation of AUensworth, and many federal, state
and local political figures have been involved in this town's
survival; and
   WHEREAS, Recognition of AUensworth's historical signifi-
cance can be a beginning step towards the creation of a much-
needed bridge that someday may span the chasm of distrust
and misunderstanding in our state; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved oy the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Legislature expresses its
support of the efforts of the State Department of Parks and
Recreation to preserve the townsite of AUensworth, in Tulare
 County, California.
Res. Ch. 312]            1969
                                REGULAR SESSION                    3987

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 311
         Assembly Joint Resolution No. 22-—Relative to
                 bilingual education programs.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Congress adopted the Bilingual Education Act
in 1967 to facilitate learning by students in their native tongue
as well as in English and to preserve the national resource of
bilingual speakers; and
   WHEREAS, The funding of this act for the 1969-1970 fiscal
year was $7,500,000 even though the act authorized an ex-
penditure of $30,000,000; and
   WHEREAS, For the 1969-1970 fiscal year 310 school systems
have applied for $40,373,580, which will be apportioned from
the $7,500,000 appropriation; and
   WHEREAS, One hundred two California school systems have
applied for $11,662,405 on behalf of 229,309 students in
California for the 1969-1970 fiscal year; and
   WHEREAS, Without adequate federal funds the school dis-
tricts cannot provide adequate or successful education to their
bilingual students; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the members urge the members of the
United States Senate and House of Representatives to aug-
ment the appropriation made for bilingual education pro-
grams for the 1969-1970 fiscal year sufficiently to raise t h e
appropriation to $30,000,000, the maximum amount author-
ized ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
 sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 312
    Assembly Joint Resolution No. 64—Relative to licensing
               of nursing home administrators.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Public Law 90-248 requires that as a condition
of Title X I X reimbursement, there must be a state p r o g r a m
for the licensing of nursing home administrators by J u l y 1,
1970; and
  WHEREAS, The Assembly Health and Welfare Committee
has evaluated the need for such licensure and as a result of
that evaluation has concluded that licensure of nursing home
3988               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Res. Ch. 313

administrators will not materially affect the standards or
quality of care provided in nursing homes; and
   WHEREAS, Public Law 90-248 has the effect of requiring
the Legislature of the State of California to surrender its
independent judgment in state matters to the federal govern-
ment; and
   WHEREAS, The alternative would be to pass a " p a p e r "
licensing act with few requirements so that all existing admin-
istrators could be licensed; and
   WHEREAS, The Assembly does not consider such a subter-
fuge in the public interest, nor does the Assembly feel that
licensure simply for the sake of licensure is a desirable public
policy; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly. That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to repeal the nursing home administrator
licensure requirement of Public Law 90-248 and to reevaluate
the entire area of quality of care in nursing homes in order to
develop realistic methods for insuring high quality based upon
the actual level of care provided rather than mere licensure of
the administrator; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and
to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States.


              RESOLUTION CHAPTER 313
Assembly   Concurrent Resolution No. 49—Relative to average
                      daily attendance.
           [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the De-
partment of Education to study the procedures for the count-
ing and computing of average daily attendance enacted by
Chapter 1660 of the Statutes of 1967, which became operative
on July 1, 1968, and to seek the assistance of the Department
of Finance and the Legislative Analyst in making the study;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Department of Education report the
results of its findings and its recommendations to the Legis-
lature not later than May 1,1969; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Department of Education, the
Department of Finance, and the Legislative Analyst,
                         1969
Res. Ch. 315]                   REGULAR SESSION                    g98S

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 314
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 97—Relative to the study
  of safety standards for campers designed to be mounted on
  motor vehicles.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The operation of an increasing number of campers
designed to be mounted on motor vehicles on California's high-
ways may be creating a safety problem in this state; and
   WHEREAS, There is a growing concern as to the safety stand-
ards applicable to such vehicles; and
   WHEREAS, To enable the Legislature to enact whatever leg-
islation may be necessary in order to cope with this problem,
it is necessary that a thorough study be made of safety stand-
ards in the construction, equipment and operation of such
vehicles; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Department of the Cali-
fornia Highway Patrol is hereby requested to study the fol-
lowing with respect to safety standards for campers designed
to be mounted on motor vehicles:
   (1) Existing laws in various states relating to such stand-
ards, and in that connection give special attention to the re-
search data developed by such states supporting the legislative
or administrative control of vehicle safety standards for
campers designed to be mounted on motor vehicles.
   (2) Available statistics relating to accidents involving
campers designed to be mounted on motor vehicles; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Department of the California Highway
Patrol is requested to conduct an in-depth study of accidents
or incidents involving campers mounted on motor vehicles;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Department of the California Highway
Patrol shall make its report of its studies of the above matters
no later than the fifth legislative day of the 1971 Regular Leg-
islative Session, and therein make any suggestions it deems
necessary and advisable with respect to safety standards for
campers designed to be mounted on motor vehicles.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 315
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 173—Relative to
                the study of the use of DDT.
                [Piled with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane chemical,
commonly known as DDT, is used extensively in this state for
crop control; and
3990                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [K es _ Qh. 316

   "WHEREAS, There is a question of its effect on human beings,
animals, and plants if it is used continuously; and
   WHEREAS, Eecognizing the possible dangers of the use of
DDT, Sweden has banned its use for two years, Michigan pro-
hibits the sale of DDT, and Arizona has instituted a one-year
ban on its use to allow for an intense study of its effects; and
   WHEREAS, Since California is the leading agricultural state
in the nation, it is imperative that an intense study be made
in this state to determine if there are any dangerous effects
from the use of DDT; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members recognize that a
study is necessary in order to determine if it is dangerous to
use DDT in this state and direct the State Department of
Public Health, in cooperation with the University of Califor-
nia, to collect and collate all pertinent scientific data on the
effects of the use of DDT and similar insecticides and pesti-
cides and report findings and recommendations to the Legis-
lature not later than January 1, 1970; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Public Health.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTEE 316
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 177—Relative to educa-
            tional objectives and requirements.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, We are living in a changing world, characterized
by rapid advances in technology, where the objectives of our
 educational system are inevitably intertwined with those of
business, industry, and government and where the educational
requirements of today may be obsolete tomorrow; and
   WHEREAS, The success or failure of our educational system
in training students to meet tomorrow's technological require-
ments depends on a high degree of cooperation and coordina-
tion between the public schools on one hand, and business,
industry, and government on the other; and
   WHEREAS, For many years education and the workaday
world have frequently operated independently of each other,
thus denying to large numbers of pupils in the public schools
relevant educational programs which are consistent with the
pupils' desires, abilities, and career objectives; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members encourage the
public schools, business, industry, and government to develop
formal and informal cooperative arrangements to coordinate
their resources, to improve the quality and effectiveness of
                      1969
Res. Ch. 317]                REGULAR SESSION                   3991

education, and to meet the manpower needs of the work world;
and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the State Board of Education and
to the California State Chamber of Commerce.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 317
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 194—Relating
                to landscaping state highways.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The dignity and distinction of the City of Sacra-
mento as the capital of the great State of California require
that this city and the seat of state government be approached
by way of appropriate thoroughfares; and
   WHEREAS, The development of major freeways leading into
and traversing the city as fully landscaped freeways will pro-
vide the distinction and beauty appropriate to our capital city;
and
   WHEREAS, The landscaping of these freeways will add im-
measurably to the well-deserved distinction not only of Sacra-
mento as the capital city but also of the State of California
itself; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature desires that the major entrances
to the Sacramento area be landscaped in order to preserve and
enhance the scenic setting of the state capital; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California,, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the California Highway Com-
mission and the Department of Public Works are hereby re-
quested to give full consideration to the above desire of the
Legislature and to take such action as is appropriate to ensure
the preservation and enhancement of the scenic setting of the
state capital, consistent with other highway needs; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the California Highway Commission and the
Department of Public Works seek additional sources of funds
for landscaping in general, and, in addition, give special at-
tention to landscaping the main approaches to the state capital,
both within the city limits of Sacramento and within an ap-
propriate distance therefrom; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Secretary of the California High-
way Commission and to the Director of Public Works,
3992               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Ch. 318

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 318
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 238—Relative
                     to public assistance.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Legislature has consistently encouraged and
supported the expansion of educational opportunities as a
primary means of breaking the cycle of poverty; and
   WHEREAS, For some years it has been possible for recipients
of aid to families with dependent children (AFDC), under
regulations of the State Department of Social Welfare, to
establish educational trust funds for their children's current
and future education out of outside income not required for
meeting the family's immediate needs; and
   WHEREAS, Recently, significant numbers of AFDC recipients
have learned of the aforesaid regulation and are seeking to
realize its benefits so that their children may be spared future
dependency on welfare; and
   WHEREAS, Concern has been expressed by many recipients
that the State Department of Social Welfare is considering
repeal of the educational trust fund regulation; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature finds and declares that the po-
tential value of the regulation in question appears to be suf-
ficiently great that its repeal should not be contemplated
without a careful weighing of the benefits and the costs of
said regulation in the perspective of the preventive and reha-
bilitative goals of the AFDC program; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the State
Department of Social Welfare not to repeal or otherwise sub-
stantially modify existing educational trust fund regulations
pending a legislative study of benefits, costs and other signifi-
cant effects of same; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Social Welfare.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 319
   Assembly   Concurrent Resolution No. 241—Relative             to
               "Keep California Green Month."
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 14, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Millions of acres of forest and range lands and
watersheds in California constitute resources that now pro-
vide and could provide many benefits in perpetuity; and
  WHEREAS, All residents of our great state share in this
wealth by virtue of many thousands of jobs which are created
by production processes related to foodstuffs and fibers; and
                      1969
Res. Ch. 320]                REGULAR SESSION                   3993
   WHEREAS, All residents and thousands of visitors share in
the enjoyment of great variety of scenery and recreational
facilities; and
   WHEREAS, Each year our economy suffers losses amounting
 to many millions of dollars because of the needless and waste-
ful destruction of these resources by man-caused wildfires;
and
   WHEKEAS, The support of established fire prevention pro-
grams and the practice of wildfire prevention methods, that
are known to all persons, can materially reduce this needless
waste; and
   WHEREAS, Our residents and visitors know that these
methods include the use of extreme caution with outdoor fires
and incinerators and the use of ashtrays and approved spark
arresters on power equipment that is used in the wild lands;
and
   WHEEEAS, Late summer and the fall months have histor-
ically been the most hazardous periods for loss from man-
caused wildfire in California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature requests the
Governor to proclaim the month of September 1969 as " K e e p
California Green M o n t h " ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Governor in his proclamation urge the
California residents and visitors to acknowledge their respon-
sibility to protect wildlife by sharing in these fire prevention
programs, not only during the hazardous months for wild-
fires, but on a sustained yearlong basis, in a common effort
to keep California green and ever productive; and be it fur-
ther
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Governor.


                EBSOLUTION C H A P T B E 320
          Assembly Joint Resolution No. 41—Relative
                   to cooperative federalism.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, Under existing federal law, tax incentives granted
by a state to encourage businesses to participate in certain
activities are diluted, if not made meaningless, by the fact
that funds expended by such businesses for such activities
result in higher federal taxes because of the lower state tax
paid; and
  WHEREAS, In the spirit of cooperative federalism, the fed-
eral government could permit deductions for business expendi-
tures made to obtain state tax incentives of this nature, which
would make state tax incentives meaningful and would benefit
3994                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [fteS. Q^   ^ 1

both the state and the nation in long-term growth; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to enact legislation permitting a business
the same federal tax deductions it would have received for
payment of state taxes had it not participated in a program
of this nature; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 321
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 130—Relative to a study
  of sabbatical leaves of absence for certificated employees.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislative Analyst, with
the cooperation of the Department of Education, the State
Board of Education, and the Department of Finance, is hereby
requested to conduct a study of sabbatical leaves of absences
granted to certificated employees in kindergarten and grades
1 to 12, inclusive; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Legislative Analyst submit his findings
and recommendations thereon to the Legislature not later than
the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session of the
Legislature; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Director of Education, the
State Board of Education, the Director of Finance, and the
Legislative Analyst.

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 322
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 190—Relative to
                       Higher Education.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The "Master Plan for Higher Education" recog-
nizes the California Community Colleges as an important part
of the total system of public higher education in California;
and
  WHEREAS, The basic quality of the instructional program of
California Community Colleges is assured by the Commission
                      1969
Res. Ch. 323]                REGULAR SESSION                   3995

for Accrediting Junior Colleges, Western Association of
Schools and Colleges; and
   WHEREAS, Students transferring from any California com-
munity or junior college to the University of California or to
a state college should be provided the same protection as stu-
dents pursuing their entire collegiate careers in the University
of California or in the state colleges in the matter of meeting
academic requirements for graduation; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the members request the Regents
of the University of California and the Trustees of the Cali-
fornia State Colleges to amend their rules and regulations to
include the statement that a student transferring from a com-
munity or junior college to the University of California or to
a state college in continuation of his regular attendance in
the college and making normal academic progress toward a
baccalaureate degree may elect, for purposes of meeting grad-
uation requirements, to meet the graduation requirements in
effect either at the time of his entering the community college
curriculum or at the time of his graduation or transfer to the
University of California or to the state college, except that
substitutions for discontinued courses may be authorized or
required by the proper authorities; and be it further
   Resolved, That the regents and the trustees report on their
action no later than December 1, 1969, to the Coordinating
Council for Higher Education, or, in the event they have not
taken such action, report by that date the reasons for their
lack of action; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Regents of the University of
California, the Trustees of the California State Colleges, the
Coordinating Council for Higher Education, and the Board of
Governors of the California Community Colleges.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 323
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 203—Relative to
          designating Blue Star Memorial Highways.
            [Piled with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Blue Star Memorial Highway project was
adopted in 1947 by the National Council of State Garden
Clubs, Inc.; and
   WHEREAS, The project is designed to erect highway mark-
ings at roadside rest areas on Blue Star Memorial Highways
to pay tribute to all those who have served or will serve in
the nation's armed forces; and
   WHEREAS, The system includes four Blue Star Memorial
Highways in California, U.S. Highways 97 and 99 and Inter-
state Routes 8 and 80; and
3996               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [EeS. Ch. 324

   WHEREAS, The California garden clubs are desirous of desig-
nating State Highway Route 58, from Santa Margarita to Bar-
stow, as a Blue Star Memorial Highway; now therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That State Highway Route 58, from
Santa Margarita to Barstow, is designated a Blue Star Me-
morial Highway; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Division of Highways is authorized to
cooperate with the California garden clubs in erecting and
maintaining appropriate memorial markings in California on
each of the Blue Star Memorial Highways; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a suitably prepared copy of this resolution to the National
Council of State Garden Clubs, Inc., and a copy to the Divi-
sion of Highways.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 324
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 239—Relative to com-
     mending the City of Lodi on its 100th anniversary.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

    "WHEREAS, August 25, 1969, will mark the 100th anniversary
 of the founding of the City of Lodi, which was named as
 Mokelumne Station until 1874; and
    WHEREAS, The early residents of the City of Lodi made a
valuable contribution to the growth and prosperity of that
 city and the surrounding area, by inspiring the Central Pa-
 cific Railroad to lay its tracks through Lodi; and
    WHEREAS, In its early years, the City of Lodi was the center
of an important grain production area and the first industrial
development of that community was a flour mill which was
built in 1876 by the Lodi Mill and Warehouse Company, a
forerunner of the flour industry which is still located in that
city; and
    WHEREAS, Subsequently, the Lodi area was renowned for
its watermelon production, and in 1880 more watermelons
were shipped from the City of Lodi than from the rest of
California combined; and
    WHEREAS, By 1907, the grape culture in that city had be-
come so significant that the first grape festival was held there
that year, and during this period the Lodi district had devel-
oped a virtual monopoly in the production of the famed Tokay
table grapes; and
    WHEREAS, Today, the Lodi district produces 98 percent of
the world's total production of Tokay table grapes due to the
unique combination of soil, temperature, and ocean breeze
which favor that area; and
    WHEREAS, The accomplishments of the City of Lodi are de-
serving of an official recognition on its 100th anniversary;
now, therefore, be it
                      1969
Res. Ch. 325]                REGULAR SESSION                   3997

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
City of Lodi on the 100th anniversary of its founding, and
wish the city, its officers, and its inhabitants success in the
future; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
suitably prepared copies of this resolution to the City of Lodi
and its mayor.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 325
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 6—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by amending Section
  12 of, and adding Section 12.1 to, Article IV thereof, re-
  lating to appropriations for the public schools.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-
thirds of the members elected to each of the two houses of the
Legislature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of
the State of California that the Constitution of the state be
amended, as follows:
   First—That Section 12 of Article I V be amended to read:
   SEC. 12. (a) Within the first 30 days of each regular ses-
sion, the Governor shall submit to the Legislature, with an
explanatory message, a budget for the ensuing fiscal year con-
taining itemized statements of recommended state expendi-
tures and estimated state revenues. If recommended expendi-
tures exceed estimated revenues, he shall recommend the
sources from which the additional revenues should be pro-
vided.
   (b) The Governor and the Governor-elect may require a
state agency, officer or employee to furnish him whatever
information he deems necessary to prepare the budget.
   (c) The budget shall be accompanied by a budget bill item-
izing recommended expenditures. The bill shall be introduced
immediately in each house by the chairmen of the committees
that consider appropriations. Until the budget bill has been
enacted, neither house may pass any other appropriation bill,
except emergency bills recommended by the Governor, or ap-
propriations for the salaries and expenses of the Legislature,
or the appropriation bill provided for by Section 12.1 of this
article.
   (d) No bill except the budget bill may contain more than
one item of appropriation, and that for one certain, expressed
purpose. Appropriations from the general fund of the State,
except appropriations for the public schools, are void unless
3998                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [KeS. Ch. 326

passed in each house by rolleall vote entered in the journal,
two-thirds of the membership concurring.
   Second—That Section 12.1 be added to Article IV, to read:
   SEC. 12.1. Within the first 30 calendar days of each regu-
lar session, the chairman of the committee of each house
charged with the responsibility of considering the subject of
education may introduce a bill, embodying the recommenda-
tions of the committee, making an appropriation to the State
School Fund and providing for the disbursement of such ap-
propriation. Neither of the bills may be passed by either
house until the budget bill is enacted, or until 130 calendar
days after the introduction of the budget bill. Where 130
days have elapsed after the introduction of the budget bill,
and the budget bill has not been enacted, either or both of
such bills may be passed by either or both houses prior to the
enactment of the budget bill upon concurrence of two-thirds
of the membership of each house. This section shall not affect
the power of the Legislature to pass pursuant to the recom-
mendations of the Governor any bill for the support of the
public elementary and secondary schools of the State as an
emergency bill in accordance with Section 12 of this article.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTEE 326
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 87—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by amending Section 1
  of Article XVI thereof, relating to state indebtedness.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-thirds
of the members elected to each of the two houses of the Legis-
lature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of the
State of California that the Constitution of the state be
amended by amending Section 1 of Article XVI thereof to
read:
   SECTION 1. The Legislature shall not, in any manner create
any debt or debts, liability or liabilities, which shall, singly or
in the aggregate with any previous debts or liabilities, exceed
the sum of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000), except
in case of war to repel invasion or suppress insurrection, un-
less the same shall be authorized by law for some single object
or work to be distinctly specified therein which law shall pro-
vide ways and means, exclusive of loans, for the payment of
the interest of such debt or liability as it falls due, and also
to pay and discharge the principal of such debt or liability
within 50 years of the time of the contracting thereof, and
                    1969
Res. Ch. 326]              REGtrLAR SESSION                 3999

shall be irrepealable until the principal and interest thereon
shall be paid and discharged, and such law may make provision
for a sinking fund to pay the principal of such debt or liability
to commence at a time after the incurring of such debt or lia-
bility of not more than a period of one-fourth of the time of
maturity of such debt or liability; but no such law shall take
effect unless it has been passed by a two-thirds vote of all the
members elected to each house of the Legislature and until, at
a general election or at a direct primary, it shall have been
submitted to the people and shall have received a majority of
all the votes cast for and against it at such election; and all
moneys raised by authority of such law shall be applied only
to the specific object therein stated or to the payment of the
debt thereby created. Full publicity as to matters to be voted
upon by the people is afforded by the setting out of the com-
plete text of the proposed laws, together with the arguments
for and against them, in the ballot pamphlet mailed to each
elector preceding the election at which they are submitted, and
the only requirement for publication of such law shall be that
it be set out at length in ballot pamphlets which the Secretary
of State shall cause to be printed. The Legislature may, at any
time after the approval of such law by the people, reduce the
amount of the indebtedness authorized by the law to an amount
not less than the amount contracted at the time of the reduc-
tion, or it may repeal the law if no debt shall have been con-
tracted in pursuance thereof.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution,
Members of the Legislature who are required to meet with the
State Allocation Board shall have equal rights and duties with
the nonlegislative members to vote and act upon matters pend-
ing or coming before such board for the allocation and appor-
tionment of funds to school districts for school construction
purposes or purposes related thereto.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this constitution, or
of any bond act to the contrary, if any general obligation
veterans' bonds of the state heretofore authorized by the ap-
proval of the Veterans Bond Act of 1968 by vote of the people
have been offered for sale and not sold, the Legislature may
raise the maximum rate of interest payable on all such general
obligation veterans' bonds authorized but not sold, whether
or not such bonds have been offered for sale, by a statute passed
by a two-thirds vote of all members elected to each house
thereof.
   The provisions of Assembly Bill No. 886 of the 1969 Regular
Session are hereby ratified.
   And he it further resolved, That Assembly Constitutional
Amendment No. 87 of the 1969 Eegular Session shall not be
submitted to the people if Senate Constitutional Amendment
No. 26 of the 1969 Eegular Session is passed by the two houses
of the Legislature and approved by the people.

   126—1954
4000               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [J> eS- Qh. 327

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER, 327
Assembly   Joint Resolution No. 55—Relative to             immigration.
           [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, On July 1, 1968, the new United States Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act, enacted in 1965, went into effect,
drastically cutting down on the number of Irish admitted to
the United States; and
   WHEREAS, Prom July 1, 1968, to December 31, 1968, only
72 preference and nonpreference visas were issued in Dublin
to Irish nationals and for the first eight months of the fiscal
year 1969 (beginning July 1, 1968) there was a total of 118
preference and nonpreference visas issued, and if the cate-
gories of "immediate relative" and "special immigrant" are
added, only 303 total visas were issued from Dublin for the
first eight months of the fiscal year 1969; and
   WHEREAS, The commendable purpose of the new immigration
law was to eliminate the discriminatory features of the old,
unwieldy, outdated, unfair law, which had been established
on the basis of a 40-year-old national origins quota system; and
   WHEREAS, The new immigration policy justly erased many
inequities and unfair treatment to certain countries under the
old law; however, no one realized at the time the new law was
being drafted that it would saddle other countries with serious
immigration problems; and
   WHEREAS, The new law, in attempting to cure the discrimi-
nation of the old law, has now set up impossible barriers to
Ireland and other countries; now therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to enaet legislation which would provide a
"floor" to be established for every nation, based on its aver-
age level of immigration to the United States during the
decade prior to the enactment of the 1965 act; and which
would provide a floor equivalent to 75 percent of the annual
average level of immigration during the 1956-65 base period,
or 10,000 individuals, whichever is less, and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 328
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 150—Relative to a study
 of the California Marine and Inland Fishing Industries.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 329]                REGULAR SESSION                   4001
   WHEREAS, the marine and inland fishing industries are
known to be major components of the recreation industry in
California, making important economic and sociological con-
tributions to the welfare of the state, but the exact size of the
industries and their socioeconomic effects on the economy of the
state have not been determined in any precise way; and.
   "WHEREAS, The increasing pressure and competition for ma-
rine resources makes it essential that a study of the marine and
inland fishing industries in California be undertaken in order
to provide the information necessary to determine the public
interest in these industries and to insure the best possible utili-
zation of our marine resources; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Secretary of the Resources
Agency is to prepare a study design for an in-depth survey of
the marine and inland fishing industries in California, which
study design shall provide information to the Legislature rela-
tive to the total cost of such in-depth survey and which would
recommend a source of funding for such in-depth survey; and
be it further
   Resolved, That it is the expectation of the Legislature that
an in-depth survey of these industries would provide informa-
tion on their economic and sociological effects on the state and
on the nature and amount of the total investment involved in
these industries both on a long-range and on an annual basis;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the study design be submitted to the Legisla-
ture no later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular
Session; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Secretary of the Resources
Agency.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 329
    Assembly    Concurrent Resolution No. 185—Relative         to
                     flood control projects.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, During the months of J a n u a r y and February,
1969, Fresno County experienced record rainfall which pro-
duced extremely severe foothill surface runoff into a number
of streams which ultimately run through the Fresno-Clovis
metropolitan area as well as other urban and farming areas
of the County of Fresno and urban and agricultural areas in
adjacent counties; and
   WHEREAS, Such streams are largely uncontrolled and do
not have the capacity to hold back the surface runoff generated
from a heavy rainfall, as the past winter has demonstrated;
and
4002              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 329

   "WHEREAS, The January and February floods resulting from
uncontrolled flow of floodwaters from the various foothill
streams and tributaries into the Fresno metropolitan area,
as well as many farming and urban communities of Fresno
County and adjacent counties, have resulted in millions of
dollars of damage to both public and private property; and
   WHEREAS, The nature of this flooding from the foothill sur-
face runoff cannot be handled by planned local drainage fa-
cilities of the Fresno Metropolitan Flood Control District
encompassing the Fresno-Clovis metropolitan area for the rea-
son that such facilities are designed strictly for local surface
runoff generated solely by urban development; and
   "WHEREAS, The President of the United States has declared
Fresno County a disaster area by reason of the severity of the
flooding and the resulting damage; and
   "WHEREAS, It is necessary that dams and other facilities be
constructed upon the various foothill streams and tributaries
running into the San Joaquin Valley in order to control such
floodwaters during periods of extreme rainfall and to prevent
floodwaters from damaging the rural, urban and metropolitan
areas through which these streams and tributaries r u n ; and
   WHEREAS, The construction of dams and other facilities upon
streams and tributaries, particularly Mill Ditch, Fancher
Creek, Dog Creek, Pup Creek, Dry Creek, Redbank Creek, Mud
Creek, Holland Creek and others, more particularly known
collectively as San Joaquin-Kings River Interstream Group,
will require coordination, administering and financing of
studies and the design and construction of dams and facilities
exceeding the financial and administrative capabilities of the
many rural, urban and metropolitan areas involved; and
   WHEREAS, It is necessary that an immediate study of this
problem and of the facilities which will be required in order
to prevent further disastrous floods in the future be under-
taken; and
   WHEREAS, It is desired that this study in particular be im-
mediately made with reference to the foothill area between the
San Joaquin River and the Kings River; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Di-
rector of Water Resources, in coordination with the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, to conduct a study on the need for flood
control facilities on Mill Ditch, Fancher Creek, Dog Creek,
Pup Creek, Dry Creek, Redbank Creek, Mud Creek, Holland
Creek and others, more particularly known collectively as the
San Joaquin-Kings River Interstream Group, the design cri-
teria, and the cost of these facilities, and to make initial rec-
ommendations thereon to the Legislature by the fifth day of
the 1970 session of the Legislature; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Governor, Director of Water
Resources, and the Secretary of the Resources Agency.
                      1969
Res. Ch. 331]                REGULAR SESSION                   4003

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 330
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 233—Relative to
                intermediate care facilities.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 15, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Over one hundred ninety-five million dollars is
 estimated to be expended for nursing home care under the
 California Medical Assistance Program (Medi-Cal) in 1969-
70; and
   WHEREAS, Many of those people receiving nursing home
care service could be provided needed services in facilities
which are not as costly as nursing homes; and
   WHEREAS, The 1967 Amendments to the Social Security Act
have provided for federal participation in the cost of facilities
that fall in a category between a boarding home and a nursing
home, commonly called an intermediate care facility; and
   WHEREAS, A thorough review and study of the cost and
possible savings which would result from the implementation
of an intermediate care facility program by California is
necessary; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee and Legislative Analyst, acting jointly, are hereby
requested to make a complete review and study of the poten-
tial cost and savings from implementing an intermediate care
facility program and to report their findings and recommen-
dations to the Legislature no later than the fifth legislative day
of the 1970 Regular Session of the Legislature; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Joint Legislative Budget Com-
mittee and Legislative Analyst.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 331
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 29—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by adding Section 7
  to Article II and by adding Article XI and by adding Sec-
  tions 37, 37.5, 38, 39, 40, and 41 to Article XIII and by
  adding Section 8 to Article XXII and by repealing Article
  XI, relating to partial revision of the Constitution of the
  State of California.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]
   Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-thirds
4004              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [|J eS- Qh. 331

of the members elected to each of the two houses of the
Legislature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of
the State of California that the Constitution of the state be
revised as follows:
   First—That Section 7 is added to Article I I to read:
   SEC. 7. All elective officers of counties, and of townships,
of road districts and of highway construction divisions therein
shall be nominated and elected in the manner provided by
general laws for the nomination and election of such officers.
   Second—That Article X I is repealed.
   Third—That Article X I is added to read:

                    XI.   Local Government
   SEC. 1. (a) The State is divided into counties which are
legal subdivisions of the State. The Legislature shall prescribe
uniform procedure for county formation, consolidation, and
boundary change. Formation or consolidation requires approval
by a majority of electors voting on the question in each affected
county. A boundary change requires approval by the governing
body of each affected county. No county seat shall be removed
unless two-thirds of the qualified electors of the county, voting
on the proposition at a general election, shall vote in favor of
such removal. A proposition of removal shall not be submitted
in the same county more than once in four years.
   (b) The Legislature shall provide for county powers and an
elected governing body in each county and prescribe compen-
sation of its members. The Legislature or the governing body
may provide for other officers whose compensation shall be
prescribed by the governing body. The governing body shall
provide for the number, compensation, tenure, and appoint-
ment of employees.
   SEC. 2. (a) The Legislature shall prescribe uniform pro-
cedure for city formation and provide for city powers.
   (b) Except with approval by a majority of its electors
voting on the question, a city may not be annexed to or con-
solidated into another.
   SEC. 3. (a) For its own government, a county or city may
adopt a charter by majority vote of its electors voting on the
question. The charter is effective if approved without change
by resolution of the Legislature, by rollcall vote entered in
the journal, a majority of the membership of each house con-
curring. County charters adopted pursuant to this section shall
supersede any existing charter and all laws inconsistent there-
with. A charter may be amended, revised, or repealed in the
same manner.
   (b) The governing body or charter commission of a county
or city may propose a charter or revision. Amendment or
repeal may be proposed by initiative or by the governing body.
   (c) An election to determine whether to draft or revise a
charter and elect a charter commission may be required by
initiative or by the governing body.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 3311              REGULAR SESSION                  4005
   (d) If provisions of 2 or more measures approved at the
same election conflict, those of the measure receiving the high-
est affirmative vote shall prevail.
   S E C 4. County charters shall provide for:
   (a) A governing body of 5 or more members, elected (1) by
district or, (2) at large, or (3) at large, with a requirement
that they reside in a district. Charter counties are subject to
statutes that relate to apportioning population of governing
body districts.
   (b) The compensation, terms, and removal of members of
the governing body.
   (c) Other officers, their election or appointment, compensa-
tion, terms and removal.
   (d) The performance of functions required by statute.
   (e) The powers and duties of governing bodies and all other
county officers, and for consolidation and segregation of county
officers, and for the manner of rilling all vacancies occurring
therein.
   (f) The fixing and regulation by governing bodies, by ordi-
nance, of the appointment and number of assistants, deputies,
clerks, attaches, and other persons to be employed, and for the
prescribing and regulating by such bodies of the powers, du-
ties, qualifications, and compensation of such persons, the times
at which, and terms for which they shall be appointed, and the
manner of their appointment and removal.
   (g) "Whenever any county has framed and adopted a char-
ter, and the same shall have been approved by the Legislature
as herein provided, the general laws adopted by the Legisla-
ture in pursuance of Section 1(b) of this article, shall, as to
such county, be superseded by said charter as to matters for
which, under this section it is competent to make provision in
such charter, and for which provision is made therein, except
as herein otherwise expressly provided.
   (h) Charter counties shall have all the powers that are pro-
vided by this Constitution or by statute for counties.
   SEC. 5. (a) I t shall be competent in any city charter to
provide that the city governed thereunder may make and en-
force all ordinances and regulations in respect to municipal
affairs, subject only to restrictions and limitations provided in
their several charters and in respect to other matters they shall
be subject to general laws. City charters adopted pursuant to
this Constitution shall supersede any existing charter, and with,
respect to municipal affairs shall supersede all laws incon-
sistent therewith.
   (b) It shall be competent in all city charters to provide, in
addition to those provisions allowable by this Constitution, and
by the laws of the State for: (1) the constitution, regulation,
and government of the city police force (2) subgovernment in
all or part of a city (3) conduct of city elections and
 (4) plenary authority is hereby granted, subject only to the re-
strictions of this article, to provide therein or by amend-
4006              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Oh. 331

ment thereto, the manner in which, the method by which, the
times at which, and the terms for which the several municipal
officers and employees whose compensation is paid by the city
shall be elected or appointed, and for their removal, and for
their compensation, and for the number of deputies, clerks and
other employees that each shall have, and for the compensa-
tion, method of appointment, qualifications, tenure of office
and removal of such deputies, clerks and other employees.
   SEC. 6. (a) A county and all cities within it may con-
solidate as a charter city and county as provided by statute.
   (b) A charter city and county is a charter city and a charter
county. Its charter city powers supersede conflicting charter
county powers.
   SEC. 7. A county or city may make and enforce within its
limits all local, police, sanitary, and other ordinances and reg-
ulations not in conflict with general laws.
   SEC. 8. (a) The Legislature may provide that counties per-
form municipal functions at the request of cities within them.
    (b) If provided by their respective charters, a county may
agree with a city within it to assume and discharge specified
municipal functions.
   SEC. 9. (a) A municipal corporation may establish, pur-
chase, and operate public works to furnish its inhabitants
with light, water, power, heat, transportation, or means of
communication. It may furnish those services outside its
boundaries, except within another municipal corporation which
furnishes the same service and does not consent.
   (b) Persons or corporations may establish and operate
works for supplying those services upon conditions and under
regulations that the city may prescribe under its organic law.
   SEC. 10. A local government body may not grant extra
compensation or extra allowance to a public officer, public
employee, or contractor after service has been rendered or a
contract has been entered into and performed in whole or in
part, or pay a claim under an agreement made without author-
ity of law.
   SEC. 11. The Legislature may not delegate to a private
person or body power to make, control, appropriate, supervise
or interfere with county or municipal corporation improve-
ments, money, or property, or to levy taxes or assessments, or
perform municipal functions.
   SEC. 12. The Legislature may prescribe procedure for pres-
entation, consideration, and enforcement of claims against
counties, cities, their officers, agents, or employees.
   SEC. 13. The provisions of Sections 1(b) (except for the
second sentence), 3(a), 4, and 5 of this Article relating to
matters affecting the distribution of powers between the Leg-
islature and cities and counties, including matters affecting
supersession, shall be construed as a restatement of all related
provisions of the Constitution in effect immediately prior to
the effective date of this amendment, and as making no sub-
stantive change.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 331]               REGULAR SESSION                 4007
    The terms general law, general laws, and laws, as used in
 this Article, shall be construed as a continuation and restate-
 ment of those terms as used in the Constitution in effect im-
 mediately prior to the effective date of this amendment, and
 not as effecting a change in meaning.
    Fourth—That former Section 12 of Article X I is added to
 Article X I I I as Section 37 to read:
    SEC. 37. Except as otherwise provided in this Constitu-
 tion, the Legislature shall have no power to impose taxes upon
 counties, cities, towns or other public or municipal corpora-
 tions, or upon the inhabitants or property thereof, for county,
city, town, or other municipal purposes, but may, by general
laws, vest in the corporate authorities thereof the power to
assess and collect taxes for such purposes.
    All property subject to taxation shall be assessed for taxa-
tion at its full cash value.
    Fifth—That former Section 13£ of Article X I is added to
Article X I I I as Section 37.5 to read:
    SEC. 37.5. Any county, city and county, city, town, munici-
pality, irrigation district, or other public corporation, issuing
bonds under the laws of the State, is hereby authorized and
empowered to make said bonds and the interest thereon pay-
able at any place or places within or outside of the United
States, and in any money, domestic or foreign, designated in
said bonds.
   Sixth—That former Section 16 of Article X I is added to
Article X I I I as Section 38 to read:
   SEC. 38. All moneys, assessments, and taxes belonging to
or collected for the use of any county, city, town, or other
public or municipal corporation, coming into the hands of any
officer thereof, shall immediately be deposited with the Treas-
urer, or other legal depositary, to the credit of such city,
town, or other corporation respectively, for the benefit of the
funds to which they respectively belong.
   Seventh—That former Section 16^ of Article X I is added
to Article X I I I as Section 39 to read:
   SEC. 39. All moneys belonging to, or in the custody of, the
State, or any county, city and county, city, town, municipality
or other public or municipal corporation, within this State
may be deposited in any national bank or banks within this
State, or in any bank or banks organized under the laws of this
State, in such manner and under such conditions as may be
provided by any law adopted by the people under the initia-
tive or by a two-thirds vote of each House of the Legislature
and approved by the Governor and subject to the referendum;
provided, that the laws now governing the deposit of such
moneys shall continue in force until such laws shall be
amended, changed or repealed as in this section authorized;
and provided, further, that the State or any county, city and
county, city, town, municipality or other public or municipal
corporation, issuing bonds under the laws of this State, may
deposit moneys in any bank or banks outside this State for the
4008               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA             [Res. Ch. 331

 payment of the principal or interest of such bonds at the place
 or places at which the same are payable.
    Eighth—That former Section 18 of Article X I is added to
 Article X I I I as Section 40 to read:
    SEC. 40. No county, city, town, township, board of educa-
 tion, or school district, shall incur any indebtedness or liability
 in any manner or for any purpose exceeding in any year the
 income and revenue provided for such year, without the as-
 sent of two-thirds of the qualified electors thereof, voting at an
 election to be held for that purpose, nor unless before or at
the time of incurring such indebtedness provision shall be
made for the collection of an annual tax sufficient to pay the
 interest on such indebtedness as it falls due, and also provision
to constitute a sinking fund for the payment of the principal
thereof, on or before maturity, which shall not exceed forty
years from the time of contracting the same; provided, how-
 ever, anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, when
 two or more propositions for incurring any indebtedness or
 liability are submitted at the same election, the votes cast for
 and against each proposition shall be counted separately, and
when two-thirds of the qualified electors, voting on any one of
 such propositions, vote in favor thereof, such proposition shall
 be deemed adopted.
    Ninth—That Section 41 is added to Article X I I I to read:
    SEC. 41. "Whenever under the laws of this State or under
its charter any city, county, city and county, parking author-
ity, district, or other public body is authorized to acquire or
construct public parking lots, garages, or other automotive
parking facilities, and for the payment of the cost of any
thereof, to issue any bonds or other securities payable in whole
 or in part from revenues of any such parking facilities, such
public body, and any other public body within the territorial
area of which such public parking facilities are or will be situ-
ated, is also authorized to pledge, place a charge upon, or
otherwise make available, as additional security for the pay-
ment of such securities, any or all revenues from any or all
street parking meters then owned or controlled or to be ac-
quired or controlled by it.
    Tenth—That Section 8 is added to Article X X I I to read:
    SEC. 8. It shall be competent, in all charters framed under
the authority given by Section 5 of Article XI, to provide, in
addition to those provisions allowable by this Constitution, and
by the laws of the state for the manner in which, the times at
which, and the terms for which the members of boards of
education shall be elected or appointed, for their qualifications,
compensation and removal, and for the number which shall
constitute any one of such boards.
   And he it further resolved, That Assembly Constitutional
Amendment No. 29 of the 1969 Regular Session shall not be
submitted to the people unless Assembly Bill No. 1094 of the
1969 Regular Session is enacted by the Legislature and depos-
ited in the office of the Secretary of State.
                      1969
Res. Ch. 332]                REGULAR SESSION                   4009

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 332
         Assembly Joint Resolution No. 24—Relative to
                vocational youth organizations.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, Historically the United States Office of Education
has cooperated and assisted in the promotion of vocational
youth organizations; and
   WHEREAS, The Future Farmers of America, the Future
Homemakers of America, the Distributive Education Clubs of
America and the Vocational Industrial Clubs of America
were organized with encouragement and assistance from the
staff of the United States Office of Education; and
   WHEREAS, These youth organizations have become an inte-
gral part of vocational education programs in secondary
schools through the influence of the United States Office of
Education staff members who serve as advisors; and
   WHEREAS, Through these organizations youth in rural, sub-
urban, and urban areas have had an opportunity to become
members of constructive organized groups; and
   WHEREAS, These organizations have helped youth to identify
with the world of work and to develop as civic and community
leaders; and
   WHEREAS, Membership in these organizations is open to all
students in vocational education regardless of race, creed or
national origin; and
   WHEREAS, A recent policy statement issued by the United
States Office of Education concerning the relationship between
the Office of Education and student organizations prohibits
its staff from directing the activities of student organizations
or participating in the administrative decisionmaking of stu-
dent organizations as officers; and
   WHEREAS, This policy will, in effect, greatly reduce assist-
ance to vocational youth organizations; and
   WHEREAS, In the ease of one youth organization, the Future
Farmers of America, this policy is in direct conflict with Pub-
lic Law 740, Chapter 823, Section 18, which specifically author-
izes the United States Commissioner of Education, with the
approval of the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
to make available personnel, services and facilities of the Office
of Education; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of
 California, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of Cali-
fornia respectfully memorializes the President, the Congress
of the United States, and the United States Department of
Health, Education, and Welfare not to implement its policy
until there has been sufficient time to permit full congressional
review and hearings to determine whether or not this adminis-
trative order carries out the intent of the law; $nd be it
further
4010                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Res. Ch. 333

  Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
encourages the United States Office of Education to take im-
mediate action to strengthen these youth organizations that
have become such an integral part of the vocational education
program in the United States; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, to each Senator and Representative from California
in the Congress of the United States, and to the United States
Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 333
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 180—Relative to the
     Joint Committee on Atomic Development and Space.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The State of California remains number one in
 population and economic growth rate; and
   WHKREAS, Its superior educational facilities continue to sup-
 port an increasingly sophisticated industrial potential; and
   "WHEREAS, The Joint Committee on Atomic Development and
 Space was created by Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 154
 (Resolution Chapter 262) of the 1968 Regular Session on
August 12, 1968, to study the subject of atomic energy and
space and its beneficial applications to the economy and best
interests of all the people of California, but the committee did
not become operative until March 12,1969, resulting in a seven-
month loss of operation; and
   WHEEEAS, Both private industry and government officials
have expressed intense interest in the activities of the commit-
tee; and
   WHEEEAS, Preliminary studies indicate that an additional
12 months is required to complete the comprehensive study
and report to the Legislature; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That notwithstanding the provisions of
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 154 (Resolution Chapter
262) of the 1968 Regular Session, the Joint Committee on
Atomic Development and Space created thereby shall not cease
to exist on the commencement of the 1970 Regular Session, and
is hereby authorized to act until June 30, 1970, and shall file
its final report of its findings and recommendations during the
1970 Regular Session; and be it further
   Resolved, That in addition to any money heretofore made
available, the sum of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000) or so
much thereof as may be necessary is hereby made available
from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for
                      l969
Res. Ch. 3341                REGULAR SESSION                   4011

the expenses of the committee and its members and for any
charges, expenses, or claims it may incur, to be paid from such
fund after certification by the chairman of the committee,
upon warrants drawn by the State Controller upon the State
Treasurer.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 334
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 193—Relative to
                  conservation education.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The conservation of our basic natural resources
 and the protection of our natural environment are a critical
issue in California as this state continues to grow at a remark-
able rate; and
   WHEREAS, Conservation means the wisest use and the most
efficient management of all our resources and of our environ-
ment for the benefit of the most people for the longest possible
time; and
   WHEREAS, The initiation and continuation of programs of
wise use and efficient management of natural resources and the
protection of our environment must, in the long run, depend
upon an informed and educated citizenry; and
   WHEREAS, The term "conservation education" refers to
those techniques which, if used correctly in the school pro-
gram, develop in pupils the proper knowledge, skills and atti-
tudes necessary to enable them to make wise decisions as citi-
zens with regard to the management and protection of our
resources and environment; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature and the Governor, through the
passage of Senate Bill No. 1, 1968 session, has required that
adopted courses of study shall provide for instruction in con-
servation and protection of resources and in man's relations
to his human and natural environment; and
   WHEREAS, Teachers and teacher trainees must be provided
with the factual background and instructed in the techniques
of conservation teaching if they are to meet these legal require-
ments ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their
strong support for a program of conservation education in the
schools of California, and urge all institutions of higher edu-
cation certified for teacher training in California, junior col-
leges, state colleges, the University of California and all private
colleges and universities, to provide prospective teachers with
adequate instruction in factual knowledge and in the teaching
techniques necessary to enable them to discharge this legal
and moral obligation throughout their teaching careers; and
be it further
4012                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ R e S - C h . 335

   Resolved, That these institutions of higher learning, certified
for teacher training, are urged to provide assistance and lead-
ership in the field of in-service training for teachers in the
field of conservation education; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the State Board of Education, the
Regents of the University of California, Trustees of the Cali-
fornia State Colleges, the Association of Independent Colleges
and Universities, the State Superintendent of Public Instruc-
tion, and the Secretary of the Resources Agency.


                  RESOLUTION CHAPTER 335
       Assembly    Concurrent Resolution No. 195—Relative
                  to an educational evaluation study.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Education of California youth is a most im-
portant responsibility of government in this state; and
   WHEREAS, People of this state should be assured that their
children are receiving quality education; and
   WHEREAS, The goals and objectives of public education in
California are at present inadequately denned; and
   WHEREAS, Such goals and objectives of public education in
California should be defined to the extent possible in evaluable
terms; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature desires accountability in meeting
such goals and objectives; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature wishes to identify and support
successful educational programs in this state; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature intends to evaluate the problem
of bilingual education in California's public schools; and
   WHEREAS, The State Board of Education seeks the support
and assistance of the Legislature in assessing the quality of
schools of the state; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members authorize a study
to determine and recommend an appropriate method to develop
broad educational goals and specific behavioral objectives be-
fitting the public schools; and be it further
   Resolved, That the study determine the most appropriate
means to develop a comprehensive statewide system of assess-
ment and evaluation designed to measure the degree to which
the public school system is achieving such goals and objectives;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Assembly and Senate Education Com-
mittees, acting as and constituting a joint committee, and in
cooperation with a three-member committee of the State Board
of Education, shall undertake this study and submit a final
                      1969
Res. Ch. 336]                REGULAR SESSION                     4013
report to the Legislature during the 1970 Regular Session; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the sum of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000)
is allocated from the Contingent Funds of the Senate and As-
sembly to said joint committee for such study, it being the
intent of the Legislature that one-half of the costs of the study
be assumed by the Legislature and that one-half of such costs
shall come from funds allocated for such purposes under Title
V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act or any
other source by the State Board of Education; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Assembly and Senate Education
Committees, the State Board of Education, and the Assembly
Office of Research.

                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 336
Assembly   Concurrent Resolution No. 221—Relative              to San
                    Dieguito River Basin.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Department of Water Resources is authorized
by Water Code Section 12616 to conduct investigations of the
water resources of the state, to formulate plans for the control,
conservation, protection, and utilization of such water re-
sources, and to render reports thereon; and
   WHEREAS, With the growing population in San Diego
County, it is imperative that local water resources be reevalu-
ated to determine the feasibility and justification of their de-
velopment to supplement existing and imported water sup-
plies ; and
   WHEREAS, The San Dieguito River is one of the relatively
undeveloped streams in San Diego County that has a potential
for multipurpose development for water supply and other pur-
poses ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the De-
partment of Water Resources, in cooperation with the City of
San Diego on a 50-50 matching basis, to formulate a basin-
wide water resources development plan for San Dieguito River
Basin, considering surface and subsurface waters for multi-
purpose use such as water supply, recreation, fish and wildlife
enhancement, and water quality control; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Director, Department of Water
Resources.
4014                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [Res.   C h . 337

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 337
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 223—Relative to
                  undergraduate     instruction.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Current events in higher education show the im-
portance of a strong but responsive undergraduate curricu-
lum; and
   "WHEREAS, I t has been felt by some that graduate instruction,
research, and outside activities by the staff of the University
of California and the California State Colleges have sup-
planted to some degree the importance of undergraduate in-
struction; and
   "WHEREAS, There exists a diversity of opinion as to the pro-
priety of many of the outside commitments of the staff of
these institutions; and
   "WHEREAS, The Report of the Select Committee on Campus
Disturbances has recognized this problem and recommended
appropriate administrative action in this area; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Board of Regents of the
University of California and the Trustees of the California
State Colleges are hereby requested to make a concentrated
effort to strengthen the importance and the quality of under-
graduate instruction on each campus of the University of
California and the California State Colleges; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Board of Regents of the Uni-
versity of California and to the Trustees of the California
State Colleges.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 338
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 246-—Relative
            to homeowners' property tax exemption.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The homeowners' property tax exemption, con-
tained in Section Id of Article X I I I of the California Consti-
tution and Section 218 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, was
intended to give property tax relief to as many California
homeowners as possible; and
  "WHEREAS, Homeowners were required for the first time in
1969 to file an application to receive the homeowners' prop-
erty tax exemption; and
  WHEREAS, Many persons who timely filed an application for
the exemption have not received the exemption because the new
procedures may have resulted in the application's being lost
                      1969
Kes. Ch. 339]                REGULAR SESSION                   4015
or misplaced in the offices of county assessors; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the Legislature finds and declares
its intent that Section 166 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
be applied with respect to applications for the homeowners'
property tax exemption and that satisfactory proof to an as-
sessor that an application was mailed on a specified date, as
provided for in Section 166, includes a notarized statement by
an applicant for the exemption that his application was filed
on such date; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the county assessor of each county in
California.

                 EESOLUTION CHAPTER 339
                Assembly Joint Resolution No. 56—
                    Relative to public assistance.
            [Piled with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Legislature of the State of California ap-
proves in principle of the concept of administrative separation
of the provision of social services from the provision of finan-
cial aid in public assistance programs; and
   WHEREAS, This principle is presently being employed with
relative success in the Old Age Security program in all Cali-
fornia counties, and in all categorical aid programs in selected
test counties; and
   WHEREAS, The experience with said separation of services
and financial aid functions has been related to the use of a
simplified method of eligibility determination in the financial
assistance programs; and
   WHEREAS, Insufficient experience has been gained in the
testing of simplified eligibility determination procedures with
respect to the program of Aid to Families with Dependent
Children, a program which includes more than three of every
five welfare recipients in the State of California; and
   WHEREAS, Present plans for separation include the use of
eligibility technicians for the determination of eligibility for
AFDC, but do not contemplate mandatory introduction of a
simplified method of eligibility determination coincident with
the initiation of separation; and
   WHEREAS, The promulgation of regulations by the United
States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare which
fail to assure counties that financial disincentives will not be
imposed on counties which do not separate service functions
from financial aid functions immediately is inducing counties
to plan the implementation of separation immediately although
they are not fully staffed with eligibility technicians properly
4016               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Ch. 340

trained to administer the complicated eligibility determination
procedures now in effect, especially in A F D C ; and
   WHEREAS, Separation under such circumstances appears
likely to result in an intolerably high rate of error, delay, and
hardship, to recipients and welfare staff alike, and to create
 unnecessary expense to the county taxpayers because of admin-
istrative error and inefficiency; and
   WHEREAS, Failure to assure that there will be no imposition
of a fiscal disincentive to nonseparation pursuant to the afore-
said H E W regulation creates a dilemma for the county tax-
payer whereby administrative costs will rise regardless of a
county's decision to separate or not to separate immediately;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully urges the Secretary of the United States Depart-
ment of Health, Education, and Welfare to provide assurances
that no fiscal disincentives for nonseparation will be imposed
pursuant to the regulation addressed in this resolution, so that
separation can be initiated in each county after proper prep-
aration has been made to insure maximum regard for efficient
and effective administration in the best interests of recipients,
taxpayers and county welfare staff alike, and can include, if
feasible, a simplified method of eligibility determination in all
categories; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to Secretary of Health, Education,
and Welfare; the Director, Bureau of the Budget; and to each
Senator and Representative from California in the Congress
of the United States.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 340
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 28—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by amending subdivi-
  sion (a) of Section 24 of Article IV, by adding an Article
  XVIII,   by adding Article XXIV, by repealing Article
  XVIII, and by repealing Article XXIV thereof, relating to
  partial revision of the Constitution of the State of Cali-
  fornia.
           [Filed with Secretary of State August IS, 1969.]
   Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-thirds
of the members elected to each of the two houses of the Legis-
lature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of the
State of California that the Constitution of the state be revised
as follows:
                    1969
Res. Ch. 340]              REGULAR SESSION                 4017

  First—That subdivision (a) of Section 24 of Article IV is
amended to read:
   SEC. 24. (a) An initiative statute or referendum approved
by a majority of votes thereon takes effect the day after the
election unless the measure provides otherwise. If a referendum
petition is filed against part of a statute the remainder shall
not be delayed from going into effect.
   Second—That Article X V I I I is repealed.
  Third—That Article X V I I I is added, to read:

                      ARTICLE X V I I I
          AMENDING AND KEVISING THE CONSTITUTION

   SEC. I. The Legislature by rollcall vote entered in the jour-
nal, two-thirds of the membership of each house concurring,
may propose an amendment or revision of the Constitution and
in the same manner may amend or withdraw its proposal. Bach
amendment shall be so prepared and submitted that it can be
voted on separately.
   SEC. 2. The Legislature by rollcall vote entered in the jour-
nal, two-thirds of the membership of each house concurring,
may submit at a general election the question whether to call
a convention to revise the Constitution. If the majority vote
yes on that question, within 6 months the Legislature shall pro-
vide for the convention. Delegates to a constitutional conven-
tion shall be voters elected from districts as nearly equal in
population as may be practicable.
   SEC. 3. The electors may amend the Constitution by ini-
tiative.
   SEC. 4. A proposed amendment or revision shall be sub-
mitted to the electors and if approved by a majority of votes
thereon takes effect the day after the election unless the meas-
ure provides otherwise. If provisions of 2 or more measures
approved at the same election conflict, those of the measure
receiving the highest affirmative vote shall prevail.
   Fourth—That Article X X I V is repealed.
   Fifth—That Article X X I V is added, to read:

                      ARTICLE X X I V
                     STATE CIVIL SERVICE

   SEC. 1. (a) The civil service includes every officer and
employee of the state except as otherwise provided in this Con-
stitution.
   (b) In the civil service permanent appointment and pro-
motion shall be made under a general system based on merit
ascertained by competitive examination.
   SEC. 2. (a) There is a Personnel Board of 5 members ap-
pointed by the Governor and approved by the Senate, a major-
ity of the membership concurring, for 10-year terms and until
4018              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 340

their successors are appointed and qualified. Appointment to
fill a vacancy is for the unexpired portion of the term. A mem-
ber may be removed by concurrent resolution adopted by each
house, two-thirds of the membership of each house concurring.
    (b) The board annually shall elect one of its members chair-
man.
    (c) The board shall appoint and prescribe compensation for
an executive officer who shall be a member of the civil service
but not a member of the board.
    SEC. 3. (a) The board shall enforce the civil service stat-
utes and, by majority vote of all its members, shall prescribe
probationary periods and classifications, adopt other rules au-
thorized by statute, and review disciplinary actions.
    (b) The executive officer shall administer the civil service
statutes under rules of the board.
    SEC. 4. The following are exempt from civil service:
    (a) Officers and employees appointed or employed by the
Legislature, either house, or legislative committees.
    (b) Officers and employees appointed or employed by coun-
cils, commissions or public corporations in the judicial branch
or by a court of record or officer thereof.
    (c) Officers elected by the people and a deputy and an em-
ployee selected by each elected officer.
    (d) Members of boards and commissions.
    (e) A deputy or employee selected by each board or com-
mission either appointed by the Governor or authorized by
statute.
    (f) State officers directly appointed by the Governor with
or without the consent or confirmation of the Senate and the
employees of the Governor's office, and the employees of the
Lieutenant Governor's office directly appointed or employed
by the Lieutenant Governor.
    (g) A deputy or employee selected by each officer, except
members of boards and commissions, exempted under Section
4(f).
    (h) Officers and employees of the University of California
and the California State Colleges.
    (i) The teaching staff of schools under the jurisdiction of
the Department of Education or the Superintendent of Public
Instruction.
    (j) Member, inmate, and patient help in state homes, chari-
table or correctional institutions, and state facilities for men-
tally ill or retarded persons.
    (k) Members of the militia while engaged in military serv-
ice.
    (I) Officers and employees of district agricultural associa-
tions employed less than 6 months in a calendar year.
    (m) In addition to positions exempted by other provisions
of this section, the Attorney General may appoint or employ
six deputies or employees, the Public Utilities Commission may
Res. Ch. 341]         «69 REGULAR SESSION                      4019

 appoint or employ one deputy or employee, and the Legislative
Counsel may appoint or employ two deputies or employees.
   SEC. 5. A temporary appointment may be made to a posi-
tion for which there is no employment list. No person may
serve in one or more positions under temporary appointment
longer than 9 months in 12 consecutive months.
   SEC. 6. (a) The Legislature may provide preferences for
veterans and their widows.
   (b) The board by special rule may permit persons in ex-
empt positions, brought under civil service by constitutional
provision, to qualify to continue in their positions.
   (c) When the state undertakes work previously performed
by a county, city, public district of this state or by a federal
department or agency, the board by special rule shall provide
for persons who previously performed this work to qualify
to continue in their positions in the state civil service subject
to such minimum standards as may be established by statute.
   And be it further resolved, That Assembly Constitutional
 Amendment No. 28 of the 1969 Regular Session shall not be
submitted to the people unless Assembly Bill 1092 of the
 L969 Regular Session is enacted by the Legislature and de-
posited in the office of the Secretary of State.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 341
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 75—
                 Relative to higher education.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, There is a growing dissatisfaction with the im-
personal nature of education in many of our colleges and
universities and with the deterioration of teaching, which may
be caused, in part, by the extremely large size of these in-
stitutions ; and
   WHEREAS, There is currently a strong need to study the
effect of size of educational institution on the quality of educa-
tion; and
   WHEREAS, If California hopes to develop a better and
more individualized approach to higher education, it must
begin by initiating studies and considering proposals to bring
about these results; and
   WHEREAS, California cannot know the real advantages
which would be available through small or decentralized cam-
puses or through such facilities as "cluster colleges" on larger
campuses, satellite campuses, or off-campus centers which may
be located either in isolated rural areas or in urban areas
throughout the state unless such a study is undertaken; and
   WHEREAS, The costs of developing and maintaining such
facilities and programs, and the quality of instruction and
other higher educational services available to students are of
4020               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ReS. Ch. 342

substantial concern to the taxpayers of the state; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members express their
support for a study to determine the feasibility and desir-
ability of developing a number of smaller centers for higher
education in connection either with existing and planned col-
lege and university campuses or as independent centers; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Joint Committee on Higher Education,
in cooperation with the Legislative Analyst, undertake a study
of the subject and to submit its report to the Legislature
not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Ses-
sion ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Regents of the University of California,
the Trustees of the California State Colleges and the Board
of Governors of the Community Colleges cooperate in fur-
nishing information for the study; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Joint Committee on Higher
Education, the Regents of the University of California, the
Trustees of the California State Colleges, and the Board of
Governors of the California Community Colleges.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 342
Assembly    Concurrent Resolution No. 86—Relative to investi-
           gating telephone campaigns urging genocide.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature hereby re-
quests that the Attorney General of the State of California
and the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California,
separately, conduct investigations of telephone campaigns urg-
ing and advocating genocide and to report, separately, their
findings and recommendations to the Legislature within 15
days of the conclusion of their respective investigations, but
not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular
Session of the Legislature; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Attorney General of the State of
California and to the Public Utilities Commission of the State
pf California.
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 344]                REGULAR SESSION                   4021

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 343
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 168—
               Relative to legislative proceedings.
            [Piled with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Constitution of the State of California re-
quires that the proceedings of the Assembly and Senate be
public, except on occasions that in the opinion of the house re-
quire secrecy; and
   WHEREAS, The open conduct of legislative proceedings serves
to insure full and candid discussion of every measure on its
merits; and
   WHEREAS, Such open meetings serve to assure an informed
and educated citizenry upon which the functioning of a viable
democracy is dependent; and
  WHEREAS, The Legislature in its committees and in each
house has long observed such an open meeting policy in both
spirit and deed, reaching decisions in full public view except
where a higher responsibility to the people dictates private
discussion; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the Sen-
ate thereof concurring, That the Members of the Legislature—
believing that such a policy best serves the interests of the
people, their representatives, and democracy itself—do hereby
recommit themselves to a policy of open and public conduct of
legislative proceedings.

                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 344
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 227—Relative to
               the Prado Dam and Reservoir.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 18, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Prado Dam and Reservoir is a flood con-
trol feature constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
in 1941 on the Santa Ana River in the Santa Ana River
Basin, which includes the metropolitan areas of Orange, San
Bernardino and Riverside Counties; and
  WHEREAS, The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is currently
undertaking a comprehensive review investigation of the Santa
Ana River Basin for flood control and allied purposes and has
scheduled an interim report on Prado Dam and Reservoir for
completion in July 1971 as part of its comprehensive investi-
gation; and
  WHEREAS, There is a need for optimum development of the
water resources of the Santa Ana River Basin, and the de-
velopment of Prado Dam and Reservoir as a multiple-purpose
project would help fulfill this need; and
4022               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ReS. Ch. 345

   WHEREAS, To provide interim input into the Corps of Engi-
neers ' investigation of the Santa Ana River Basin, particularly
its interim report on Prado Dam and Reservoir, result of
studies of the potential multiple uses of Prado Dam and
Reservoir must be provided through the Corps of Engineers
within the first six months of fiscal year 1970-71; and
   WHEREAS, The Orange County Water District recognizes
the need for the development of Prado Dam and Reservoir
as a multiple-purpose project and is willing to participate in
studies of the multiple-purpose aspects of Prado Dam and
Reservoir, and is willing to contribute on a matching basis
with the Department o£ Water Resources in such a study pro-
gram in fiscal year 1969-70; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the De-
partment of Water Resources, in cooperation with all appro-
priate agencies, to assist the Corps of Engineers by coordi-
nating the efforts of state and local interests in the study of a
multiple-purpose development of Prado Dam and Reservoir
with consideration of flood control, water storage, water con-
servation, water quality, recreation, fish and wildlife enhance-
ment, and other related purposes; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Department of Water Resources initiate
such cooperation and study in fiscal year 1969-1970 with funds
contributed by the Orange County Water District and other
agencies and continue such efforts in fiscal year 1970-1971
with matching state funds in order to provide a timely con-
tribution to the Corps of Engineers' study; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Water Resources.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 345
   Assembly   Concurrent Resolution No. 186—Relative            to
                flood control on the Eel River.
           [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Governor has directed the Department of
 Water Resources, in cooperation with the U.S. Corps of Engi-
neers, to make further analyses of possible water development
plans in the Eel River watershed alternative to the current
proposal of the U.S. Corps of Engineers to construct a 730-
foot-high dam on the Middle Pork Eel River near Dos Rios
which would result in the flooding of Round Valley; and
   WHEREAS, I t has been questioned that the proposed Dos Rios
Project would provide the needed flood control benefits for the
Eel River Basin, which all too often is subject to devastating
floods causing millions of dollars in property damage and the
tragic and needless loss of life; and
                     1969
Res. Ch. 345]               REGULAR SESSION                  4023
    "WHEREAS, The Eel River Delta Levee Project has been au-
thorized by Congress for construction by the U.S. Corps of
 Engineers, but the construction of such levees in the Eel River
 Delta will not alone be sufficient to provide effective flood con-
trol for the basin; and
    "WHEREAS, The proposed Dos Rios Dam and Reservoir
Project, in conjunction with the Eel River Delta Levee Project
and the proposed English Ridge Dam and Reservoir Project
of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, could have resulted in an
effective flood control system for the Eel River; and
    WHEREAS, A reevaluation of all possible means of providing
necessary flood control benefits, as part of the Department of
Water Resources' further studies of alternatives to the Dos
Rios Project, is urgently needed to insure that the presently
authorized Eel River Delta Levee Project will provide an ef-
fective flood control system for the Eel River; and
   WHEREAS, The United States Bureau of Reclamation and
the Kaiser Engineers of Oakland have submitted proposals
which may provide flood control benefits by means other than
the construction of a dam at Dos Rios; and
   WHEREAS, Proposals which may provide additional flood
control benefits for the Eel River Basin include the construc-
tion of a low dam at Dos Rios and the diversion of water to
Clear Lake which would not result in the flooding of Round
Valley, or the possibility of constructing an enlarged English
Ridge Dam and Reservoir, or the construction of a series of
smaller dams at various locations within the Eel River Basin
to provide the flood control that the dam at Dos Rios would
have; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the De-
partment of Water Resources to immediately reevaluate all
alternative proposals for providing sufficient flood control bene-
fits for the Eel River Basin to insure that the presently au-
thorized Eel River Delta Levee Project will result in an
effective flood control system, including a reevaluation of the
proposals submitted by the Kaiser Engineers, the proposals of
the United States Bureau of Reclamation, proposals for the
construction of a low dam at Dos Rios, proposals for the con-
struction of any other dam on the Eel River or any tributary
thereof which would provide the necessary flood control bene-
fits, and to report thereon to the Legislature not later than the
fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Water Resources.
4024                STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA                [ReS. Ch. 346

                KB SOLUTION CHAPTER 346
Assembly Concurrent "Resolution No. 209—Relative to con-
  tinuance of the Joint Committee on Bay Area Regional
  Organization.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Joint Committee on Bay
Area Regional Organization created by Resolution Chapter 144
(S.C.R. 41) of the Statutes of 1967 is continued in existence,
with authority to act, including any recess, until the final
adjournment of the 1970 Regular Session of the Legislature.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 347
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 228—
                 Relative to child care services.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, The California Legislature has recognized the
 need for child care services for children of mothers who must
 of necessity work out of their homes; and
    WHEREAS, These services assist low-income families and
 families receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children;
 and
    WHEREAS, The financing of these services is borne by the
 state, parents' fees, district taxes, and the federal government;
 and
   WHEREAS, The support for this program is maintained by
the Children Centers Fund in the county treasuries for school
districts that administer child care centers; and
   WHEREAS, The Department of Social Welfare is responsible
for initiating a program to obtain federal matching dollars
for those families in the AFDC program; and
   WHEREAS, It is possible that federal dollars may be lost be-
cause of the lack of a coordinated program; and
   WHEREAS, There is question of the procedures of establish-
ing eligibility requirements by a " means test''; and
   WHEREAS, There has been no statewide study to determine
the cost benefit of the children centers program; now, there-
fore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature requests that
an objective analysis of financing and costs of children centers
programs in school districts be conducted by the Office of the
Auditor General, Joint Legislative Audit Committee, Legis-
lative Analyst, Joint Legislative Budget Committee, the De-
partment of Education, the Department of Social Welfare, and
                      1969
Res. Ch. 349]                REGULAR SESSION                       4025

other departments or agencies deemed advisable by the Auditor
General, to develop an accurate and uniform cost reporting
system by all school districts; and be it further
   Resolved, That such study shall include, but not be limited
to, a determination if moneys are recoverable by the General
F u n d ; an analysis of the identity of all fund balances; infor-
mation on the administration of child care centers; comparable
program cost data of other representative states in the United
States; an analysis of the elements of the state-supported
rates; and other pertinent information the Auditor General
uncovers in his study; and be it further
   Resolved, That a report of the study findings be transmitted
by the Auditor General, Joint Legislative Audit Committee,
and Joint Legislative Budget Committee to the Legislature on
or before the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Auditor General, Legislative
Analyst, Joint Legislative Audit Committee, Joint Legislative
Budget Committee, Superintendent of Public Instruction, and
Director of Social Welfare.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 348
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 245—Relative to the
      Joint Legislative Committee on Higher Education.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Joint Committee on
Higher Education, created by Resolution Chapter 56, Statutes
of 1969, is authorized to act during this session of the Legis-
lature, including any recess, and after final adjournment until
June 30,1970.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 349
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 64—Relative               to directing
  the Department of Rehabilitation to study                rehabilitative
  services for the disabled.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

  WHEKEAS, The Legislature is interested in rehabilitative
services for disabled persons; and
  WHEKEAS, The Legislature is interested in facilitating the
use of these services by disabled persons; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members direct the De-
partment of Rehabilitation to study the feasibility of issuing
4026               STATUTES OB» CALIFORNIA                [ R e s . <jh. 350

an identification card authorizing rehabilitative services any-
where in the state to each eligible disabled person registered
with the department, and to submit a comprehensive report
on all its findings and recommendations to the Legislature not
later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session
of the Legislature; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Department of Rehabilitation.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 350
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 82—Relative to the estab-
  lishment of a plan to provide a general mental retardation
  facility at Agnews State Hospital.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, The Legislature is cognizant of the problems of
the mentally retarded in the State of California, and particu-
larly in Santa Clara County; and
   WHEEEAS, There are currently 698 mentally retarded per-
sons from Santa Clara County in state hospitals for the men-
tally retarded, but only 62 persons are now cared for at Ag-
news State Hospital which is near their families, while 463 are
cared for at Porterville State Hospital located a great distance
from their homes; and
   WHEBEAS, The members are concerned regarding the fur-
ther transfer of any mentally retarded persons from Santa
Clara County from existing facilities to Agnews State Hospi-
tal, in that the present facilities and programs are inadequate
to provide proper care and training for those 62 residents of
Santa Clara County presently assigned at Agnews State Hos-
pital; and
   WHEREAS, Since some 250 additional persons from Santa
Clara County are waiting for admission to state hospitals for
the mentally retarded, there exists in the Santa Clara County
region a service population of sufficient size to operate a men-
tal retardation facility; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Department of Mental
Hygiene is hereby requested to submit a plan to the Senate Pi-
nance Committee and the Assembly Committee on Ways and
Means to provide a general facility at Agnews State Hospital
to serve mentally retarded persons, which services will be avail-
able for families residing in the local service area; and be it
further
   Resolved, That until a plan has been submitted and ap-
proved, the Department of Mental Hygiene should not estab-
lish any new program at Agnews State Hospital designed for
the care of a specific category of mentally retarded persons,
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 351]                REGULAR SESSION                   4027

or transfer to Agnews State Hospital a specific category of
mentally retarded persons, or remodel existing buildings at
Agnews State Hospital for use of additional mentally re-
tarded persons; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Mental Hygiene.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 351
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 86—Relative
                   to commercial vehicles.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, The United States Congress has established a De-
partment of Transportation that has as one of its assignments
the development of highway safety program standards; and
   WHEREAS, One of the standards being developed relates to
motor vehicle registration and includes the provision that the
declared gross laden weight of commercial vehicles be in the
records of the state agency; and
   "WHEREAS, The State of California uses the unladen vehicle
weight method for its motor vehicle records and method, of
assessment of fees, and it is probable that this state, in order
to comply with the federal standards, may be required to in-
clude in its vehicle records the vehicle gross weight, and. in-
formation is needed to determine the implications of such a
proposal; and
   WHEREAS, Up-to-date information on the use of the California
highways by commercial vehicles and the extent of the prob-
lems and challenges occasioned by commercial vehicles on the
economy of California is needed; and
   WHEREAS, Such information is important for determining
the validity of current vehicle registration, licensing, identifi-
cation, and fee payment requirements in relation to current
industry practices, operations, and compliance; and
   WHEREAS, Problems arising from the uses of and proper
licensing of the pickup truck type vehicles occasion confusion
and require study and clarification; and
   WHEREAS, Information and specific current data are needed
of the movement of intrastate and interstate commercial ve-
 hicles on the highways and streets of California; now, there-
fore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
 sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the De-
 partment of Motor Vehicles to make a study of the commer-
 cial vehicle population registered and operating in California,
 including, but not limited to, determining registration status of
 commercial vehicles, types of commodities carried, laden a n d
 unladen weights of vehicles, and origin and destination of com-
 mercial vehicles on highways; and be it further
4028              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [Res. Ch. 352

   Resolved, That all state agencies related to the transporta-
tion field are requested to assist the department in accomplish-
ing this study; and be it further
   Resolved, That the department is requested to arrange with
any governmental research or study agency to assist in pre-
paring all or such portion of this study as desired; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the department is authorized, subject to
approval of the Department of Finance, to use funds from
current appropriations supplemental to any federal research
funds that may be available; and be it further
   Resolved, That the department report its findings to the
Legislature not later than June 30, 1970; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Motor Vehicles.


              RESOLUTION CHAPTER 352
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 136—Relative to adoption
       of the Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly.
           [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the following rules be
adopted as the Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly for the
1969 Regular Session:
                     Standing Committees
  1. Each house shall appoint such standing committees as
the business of the house may require, the committees, the
number of members and the manner of selection to be deter-
mined by the rules of each house.
                  Joint Meeting of Committees
  3. "Whenever any bill has been referred by the Senate to
one of its committees, and the same or a like bill has been
referred by the Assembly to one of its committees, the chair-
men of the respective committees, when in their judgment the
interests of legislation or the expedition of business will be
better served thereby, shall arrange for a joint meeting of
their committees for the consideration of such bill.
                Effect of Adoption of Joint Rules
   3.5. The adoption of the Joint Rules for any extraordinary
session shall not be construed as modifying or rescinding the
Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly for any previous ses-
sion, nor as affecting in any way the status or powers of the
interim committees created by those rules.
Res. Ch. 352]        ««» REGULAR SESSION                      402§

                     BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

                     Definition of Word Bill
  4. Whenever the word " b i l l " is used in these rules, it shall
include constitutional amendments, concurrent and joint reso-
lutions.
               Concurrent and Joint Resolutions
  5. Concurrent resolutions relate to matters to be treated by
both houses of the Legislature.
  Joint resolutions are those which relate to matters con-
nected with the federal government.

                 Resolutions Treated as Bills
   6. Constitutional amendments, concurrent and joint resolu-
tions shall be treated in all respects as bills; except that they
shall be given only one formal reading in each house and that
they shall not be deemed bills within the meaning of sub-
division (a) of Section 8 of Article I V of the Constitution, and
shall not be referred to the Committee on Introduction of Bills,
and except as provided in Rule 24. As in the case of bills, they
shall be engrossed in the house in which they originate before
being voted upon.

          PKEPARATION AND INTKODUCTION OF BILLS

                          Title of Bill
  7. The title of every bill introduced shall convey an accurate
idea of the contents of the bill and shall be indicative of the
scope of the act and the object to be accomplished. In amend-
ing a code section, the mere reference to the section by number
shall not be deemed sufficient.

                 Division of Bill Into Sections
  8. A bill amending more than one section of an existing
law shall contain a separate section for each section amended.
  Bills which are not amendatory of existing laws shall be
divided into short sections, where this can be done without
destroying the sense of any particular section, to the end that
future amendments may be made without the necessity of
setting forth and repeating sections of unnecessary length.

                     Introduction of Bills
   8.3. No bill shall be introduced after the 90th calendar day
of a regular session except as follows:
   (a) A written notice of intention to introduce a bill, a copy
of the bill and a digest prepared pursuant to Rule 8.5 shall
be filed with the Chief Clerk of the Assembly or the Secretary
of the Senate, as the case may be, and shall be transmitted to
4030               STA-MES O F CALtootiNiA          [R e s . ch. 352

the Rules Committee of the appropriate house. The notice and
digest shall be printed in the Journal of that house.
   (b) The Rules Committee of the Assembly or Senate, as the
case may be, shall determine whether there exists an urgent
need for the introduction of the proposed bill.
   (c) If the Rules Committee recommends that introduction
of the proposed bill be permitted, the member may offer a
resolution, without further reference thereof to committee,
granting permission to introduce the bill. The adoption of the
resolution granting such permission shall require an affirma-
tive recorded vote of two-thirds of the elected members of the
house in which the request is made.
   As used in this rule " b i l l " includes constitutional amend-
ments but does not include joint or concurrent resolutions.

                   Digest of Bills Introduced
   8.5. No bill shall be introduced unless it is contained in a
cover attached by the Legislative Counsel and unless it is ac-
companied by a digest, prepared and attached to the bill by
the Legislative Counsel, showing the changes in the existing
law which are proposed by the bill. If any bill is presented
to the Secretary of the Senate or Chief Clerk of the Assembly
for introduction which does not comply with the foregoing
requirements of this rule the Secretary or Chief Clerk shall
return it to the member who presented it. The digest shall
be printed on the bill as introduced upon the lower part of
the first page thereof.

                     Digest of Bills Amended
   8.6. Whenever a bill is amended in either house, the Secre-
tary of the Senate or the Chief Clerk of the Assembly, as
the case may be, shall request the Legislative Counsel to pre-
pare an amended digest and cause it to be printed on the
first page of the bill as amended. The digest shall be amended
to show changes in the existing law which are proposed by
the bill as amended with any material changes in the digest
indicated by the use of appropriate type.

                        Errors in Digest
   8.7. If a material error in a printed digest referred to in
Joint Rule 8.5 or 8.6 is brought to the attention of the Legisla-
tive Counsel, he shall prepare a corrected digest which shall
show the changes made in the digest as provided in Joint Rule
10 for amendments to bills. He shall deliver the corrected
digest to the Secretary or the Chief Clerk, as the case may be.
If the correction warrants it in the opinion of the President
pro Tempore of the Senate or the Speaker of the Assembly, a
corrected print of the bill as introduced shall be ordered with
the corrected digest printed thereon.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 352]               REGULAR SESSION                  4031
                Restrictions as to Amendments
   9. A substitute or amendment must relate to the same sub-
ject as the original bill, constitutional amendment or resolu-
tion under consideration.

       Changes in Existing Law to Be Marked by Author
   10. I n a bill amending or repealing a code section or a gen-
eral law, any new matter shall be underlined and any matter
to be omitted shall be in type bearing a horizontal line through
the center and commonly known as "strikeout" type. When
printed the new matter shall be printed in italics, and the mat-
ter to be omitted shall be printed in "strikeout" type.
   In any amendment to a bill which sets out for the first time
a section being amended or repealed, any new matter to be
added and any matter to be omitted shall be indicated by the
author and shall be printed in the same manner as though the
section as amended or repealed were a part of the original bill
and was being printed for the first time.
   When an entire code is repealed as part of a codification
or recodification or when an entire title, part, division, chap-
ter or article of a code is repealed, the sections comprising
such code, title, part, division, chapter, or article shall not be
set forth in the bill or amendment in strikeout type.

                        Heading of Bills
   10.7. No bill shall indicate in its heading or elsewhere that
it was introduced at the request of a state agency or officer or
any other person. No bill shall contain the words " B y re-
quest" or words of similar import.

                     Consideration of Bills
  10.8. At a regular session, no bill shall be heard by any
committee or acted upon by either house until 30 calendar
days have elapsed following the date the bill was first intro-
duced except this provision and the limitation contained in
subdivision (a) of Section 8 of Article IV of the Constitution
may be dispensed with as follows:
   (a) A written request for such dispensation entitled " R e -
quest to Consider and Act on Bill Within 30 Calendar D a y s "
shall be filed with the Chief Clerk of the Assembly or the Sec-
retary of the Senate, as the case may be, printed in the Jour-
nal and transmitted to the Rules Committee of the appropriate
house.
   (b) The Rules Committee of the Assembly or Senate, as the
case may be, shall determine whether there exists an urgent
need for dispensing with the 30-calendar-day waiting period
following the bill's introduction.
   (c) If the Rules Committee recommends that said waiting
period be dispensed with, the member may offer a resolution,
    127—1954
40c52              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA             [fteS. ( j k 352

without further reference thereof to committee, authorizing
hearing and action upon the bill before the 30 calendar days
have elapsed. The adoption of the resolution shall require an
affirmative recorded vote of three-fourths of the elected mem-
bers of the house in which the resolution is presented.
  As used in this rule " b i l l " includes constitutional amend-
ments but does not include joint or concurrent resolutions.

                         Hearing of Bills
   10.9. Bach bill shall be set for hearing and heard by the
committee to which it has been first assigned in the house of
origin within 60 calendar days after introduction. If a bill is
not so heard by such committee, the committee shall return
the bill to the house and the bill shall not be acted upon by
either house. If an author so requests in writing, a bill shall
not be set for hearing and shall be returned to the house and
not acted upon by either house.
   As used in this rule, " b i l l " includes constitutional amend-
ments but does not include joint or concurrent resolutions.
   This rule does not apply to bills first assigned to the Com-
mittee on Finance or the Committee on "Ways and Means.

                    Printing of Amendments
  11. All bills amended by either house shall be immediately
reprinted; in case new matter is added by the amendment
such new matter shall be printed in italics in the printed bill,
and in the case of matter being omitted, the matter to be
omitted shall be printed in strikeout type. When a bill is
amended in either house, the first or previous markings shall
be omitted.

 Printing and Distribution of Bills—Manner of Printing Bills
   12. The State Printer shall observe the following directions
in printing all bills, constitutional amendments, concurrent
and joint resolutions:
   (a) The body of such bills shall be printed in solid unspaced
form in 10-point roman type so that the same type shall be
used both before and after enrollment. Concurrent resolutions
approving city or county charters or amendments thereto may
be set in smaller type.
   (b) All titles of bills shall be set in italics, statute form and
the length of the lines used in the titles shall not exceed that
of the body of the bill.
   (c) The lines of all printed bills shall be numbered by page
and not by sections, and amendments shall be identified by
reference to title, page and line only.

            Distribution of Legislative Publications
  13. All requests by members for mailing or distribution of
copies of the Weekly Histories and the Legislative Index shall
                       1969
Kes. Ch. 3521                 REGULAR SESSION                 4033
be filed with the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Clerk of
the Assembly. Except as otherwise provided by either the
Assembly or Senate, each Member of the Senate and Assembly
shall be permitted to submit a list of 10 organizations or indi-
viduals. The Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Clerk of
the Assembly shall order a sufficient number of copies of the
Weekly Histories and the Legislative Index to supply this
list together with such number of bills and legislative publica-
tions as may be necessary for legislative requirements.
   No complete list of bills shall be delivered except upon pay-
ment therefor of the sum of two hundred twenty-five dollars
 ($225) at a regular session or such sum as may be fixed by the
Joint Committee on Legislative Organization at an extraordi-
nary session. No more than two copies of any bill or other legis-
lative publication, nor more than a total of 100 bills or other
legislative publications during a session, shall be distributed
free to any person, office, or organization. The limitations im-
posed by this paragraph do not apply to Members of the
Legislature, the President of the Senate, the Secretary of the
Senate and the Chief Clerk of the Assembly for the proper
functioning of their respective houses; the Legislative Coun-
sel Bureau; Attorney General's office; Secretary of State's
office; Controller's office, Governor's office; the Clerk of the Su-
preme Court; the clerk of the court of appeal for each dis-
trict ; the Judicial Council; the California Law Revision Com-
mission; the State Library; the Library of Congress and to
libraries of the University of California at Berkeley and at Los
Angeles; and accredited, members of the press. The State
Printer shall fix the cost of such bills and publications, includ-
ing postage, and such moneys as may be received by him
shall, after deducting the cost of handling and mailing, be
remitted on the first day of each month, one-half each to the
Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Clerk of the Assembly
for credit to legislative printing. Legislative publications here-
tofore distributed through the Bureau of Documents shall be
distributed through the Bill Room. Unless otherwise provided
for, the total number of each bill to be printed shall be not
more than 2,500.

                Summary Digest and Legislative Index
   13.1. The Legislative Counsel shall provide for the periodic
publication of a cumulative Legislative Index which shall in-
clude tables of sections affected by pending legislation. The
State Printer shall print the Legislative Index in such quanti-
ties, and at such times, as are determined by the Secretary of
the Senate and the Chief Clerk of the Assembly. The costs
of such printing shall be paid from the legislative printing
appropriation.
   13.3. The Legislative Counsel shall compile and prepare
for publication a summary digest of legislation passed at each
4034              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Ch. 352

regular and extraordinary session, which digest shall be pre-
pared in a form suitable for inclusion in the publication of
statutes. The digest shall be printed as a separate legislative
publication on the order of the Joint Committee on Legisla-
tive Organization and may be made available to the public
in such quantities and at such prices as the Joint Committee
on Legislative Organization may determine.
   13.5. The Legislative Counsel shall prepare for publication
from time to time a cumulative statutory record. The statutory
record shall be printed as a legislative publication on the order
of the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Clerk of the As-
sembly.
                 OTHER LEGISLATIVE PRINTING

                 Printing of the Daily Journal
  14. The State Printer shall print in such quantity as di-
rected by the Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Clerk of
the Assembly, copies of the journal of each day's proceedings
of each house. At the end of the session he shall also print, as
directed by the Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Clerk
of the Assembly a sufficient number of copies properly paged
after being corrected and indexed by the Secretary of the
Senate and the Chief Clerk of the Assembly, to bind in book
form as the journal of the respective houses of the Legislature.

             "What Shall Be Printed in the Journal
   15. The following shall always be printed in the journal of
each house:
   (a) Messages from the Governor and messages from the
other house, and the titles of all bills, joint and concurrent
resolutions and constitutional amendments when introduced
in, offered to, or acted upon by the house.
   (b) Every vote taken in the house, and a statement of the
contents of each petition, memorial or paper presented to
the house.
   (e) A true and accurate account of the proceedings of the
house, when not acting as a Committee of the Whole.

                   Printing of the Daily File
  16. A daily file of bills ready for consideration shall be
printed each legislative day for each house.
  The material to be printed in the file and the form and
arrangement shall be determined by the respective houses.

                       Printing of History
   17. Each house shall cause to be printed, once each week,
during the session, a complete history of all bills, constitu-
tional amendments, concurrent, joint and house resolutions
originating in or acted upon by the respective houses. A regu-
                    1969
Res. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                 4035
lar form shall be prescribed by the Secretary of the Senate
and the Chief Clerk of the Assembly. Such history shall show
the action taken upon each measure up to and including the
legislative day preceding its issuance. For each legislative day
intervening there shall be printed a supplementary history
showing the action taken upon any measure since the issuance
of the complete history.

                 Authority for Printing Orders
   18. The State Printer shall not print for use of either house
nor charge to legislative printing any matter other than pro-
vided by law or by the rules, except upon a written order
signed by the Secretary of the Senate, on behalf of the Senate,
or the Chief Clerk of the Assembly or other person authorized
by the Assembly, on behalf of the Assembly. Persons author-
ized to order printing under this rule may, when necessity
requires it, order certain matter printed in advance of the
regular order, by the issuance of a rush order.
   The Secretary of the Senate, on behalf of the Senate, and
the Chief Clerk of the Assembly or other person authorized by
the Assembly, on behalf of the Assembly, are hereby authorized
and directed between sessions to order and distribute for the
members stationery and legislative publications for which there
is a demand, and, subject to the rules of their respective
houses, to approve the bills covering such orders. All bills for
printing must be presented by the State Printer within 30
days after the completion of said printing.

                           RECORD OF BILLS

           Secretary and Chief Clerk to Keep Records
  19. The Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Clerk of the
Assembly shall keep a complete and accurate record of every
action taken by the Senate and Assembly on every bill.

          Secretary and Chief Clerk Shall Endorse Bills
   20. The Secretary of the Senate and the Chief Clerk of the
Assembly shall endorse on every original or engrossed bill a
statement of any action taken by the Senate or Assembly con-
cerning such bill.
          ACTION IN ONE HOUSE ON B I L L TRANSMITTED
                      FROM THE OTHER,

   After a Bill Has Been Passed by the Senate or Assembly
    21. When a bill has been passed by either house it shall be
 transmitted promptly to the other unless a motion to recon-
 sider or a notice of motion to reconsider has been made or it is
 held pursuant to some rule or order of the house.
    The procedure of referring bills to committees shall be de-
 termined by the respective houses.
4036              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ f t e s Ch. 352

       Messages to Be in Writing Under Proper Signatures
   22. Notice of the action of either house to the other shall be
in writing and under the signature of the Secretary of the
Senate or the Chief Clerk of the Assembly from which such
message is to be conveyed. A receipt shall be taken from the
officer to whom such message is delivered.

                       Uncontested Bills
   22.1. Each standing committee may report an uncontested
bill out of committee with the recommendation that it be placed
on the consent calendar. The Secretary of the Senate and the
Chief Clerk of the Assembly shall provide to each committee
chairman appropriate forms for such report. As used in this
rule, "uncontested bill" means a bill, except a revenue meas-
ure or a measure as to which the 30-day limitation prescribed
by subdivision (a) of Section 8 of Article IV of the Constitu-
tion has been dispensed, which: (a) receives a do-pass or do-
pass-as-amended recommendation from the committee to which
it is referred, by unanimous vote of the members present pro-
vided a quorum is present; and (b) has no opposition ex-
pressed by any person present at the committee meeting with
respect to the final version of the bill as approved by the
committee; and (c) prior to final action by the committee has
been requested, by the author, to be placed on the consent
calendar.
                       Consent Calendar
    22.2. Following their second reading and the adoption of
any committee amendments thereto, if any, all bills certified
by the committee chairman as uncontested bills shall be placed
by the Secretary of the Senate or the Chief Clerk of the
Assembly on the consent calendar, and shall be known as
"consent calendar bills." Any consent calendar bill which is
amended from the floor shall cease to be a consent calendar
bill and shall be replaced on the second reading file. Upon
objection of any member to the placement or retention of any
bill on the consent calendar, such bill shall cease to be a con-
sent calendar bill and shall be replaced on the second reading
file. No consent calendar bill shall be considered for adoption
until the second legislative day following the day of its place-
ment on the consent calendar.

           Consideration of Bills on Consent Calendar
   22.3. Bills on the consent calendar are not debatable, ex-
cept that the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the
Assembly shall allow a reasonable time for questions from the
floor and shall permit the proponents of such bills to answer
such questions. Immediately prior to voting on the first bill
on the consent calendar, the President of the Senate or the
                      1969
Res. Ch. 352]                REGULAR SESSION                 4037
Speaker of the Assembly shall call to the attention of the mem-
bers the fact that the next rollcall will be the rollcall on the
first bill on the consent calendar.
   The consent calendar shall be considered as the last order
of business on the daily file.

                 PASSAGE AND ENROLLING OF BILLS

                Passage of Bills Preceding the Recess
   23. No Senate bill shall be passed by the Senate within 15
days, and no Assembly bill shall be passed by the Assembly
within 10 days, prior to the commencement of the 30-day re-
cess of the two houses of the Legislature at a regular session
required by Section 3 of Article IV of the Constitution, un-
less permission to vote on such bill shall be granted by a three-
fourths vote of the house of its origin after being recommended
by the Committee on Rules (if it be a Senate bill) or by the
Speaker of the Assembly (if it be an Assembly bill). As used
in this rule, " b i l l " does not include concurrent resolutions.

                  Enrollment of Bill After Passage
   24. After a bill has passed both houses it shall be printed
in enrolled form, omitting symbols indicating amendments, and
shall be compared by the Engrossing and Enrolling Clerk
and the proper committee of the house where it originated to
determine that it is in the form approved by the houses. The
enrolled bill shall thereupon be signed by the presiding officers
of both houses and the Secretary of the Senate and Chief Clerk
of the Assembly and presented without delay to the Gover-
nor. The committee shall report the time of presentation of the
bill to the Governor to the house and the record shall be en-
tered in the journal. After enrollment and signature by the
officers of the Legislature, constitutional amendments, con-
current and joint resolutions shall be filed without delay in
the office of the Secretary of State and the time of filing shall
be reported to the house and the record entered in the journal.

                  AMENDMENTS AND CONFERENCES

       Amendments to Amended Bills Must Be Attached
  25. Whenever a bill or resolution which shall have been
passed in one house shall be amended in the other, it shall
immediately be reprinted as amended by the house making
such amendment or amendments. Two copies of such amend-
ment or amendments shall be attached to the bill or resolution
so amended, and endorsed " a d o p t e d " and such amendment or
amendments, if concurred in by the house in which such bill
or resolution originated, shall be endorsed "concurred i n , "
and such endorsement shall be signed by the Secretary or
Assistant Secretary of the Senate, or the Chief Clerk or As-
4038               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. Ch. 352

sistant Clerk of the Assembly as the case may be; provided,
however, that an amendment to the title of a bill adopted after
the passage of such bill shall not necessitate reprinting, but
such amendment must be concurred in by the house in which
such bill originated.

         To Concur or Refuse to Concur in Amendments
  26. In case the Senate amend and pass an Assembly bill, or
the Assembly amend and pass a Senate bill, the Senate (if it
be a Senate bill) or the Assembly (if it be an Assembly bill)
must either " c o n c u r " or "refuse to concur" in the amend-
ments. If the Senate concur (if it be a Senate bill), or the
Assembly concur (if it be an Assembly bill), the Secretary or
Chief Clerk shall notify the house making the amendments and
the bill shall be ordered to enrollment.

       Concurring in Amendments Adding Urgency Section
   27. When a bill which has been passed in one house is
amended in the other by the addition of a section providing
that the act shall take effect immediately as an urgency statute
and is returned to the house in which it originated for
concurrence in the amendment or amendments thereto, the
procedure and vote thereon shall be as follows:
   The presiding officer shall first direct that the urgency sec-
tion be read and put to a vote. If two-thirds of the members
elected to the house vote in the affirmative the presiding officer
shall then direct that the question of whether the house shall
concur in the amendment or amendments shall be put to a
vote. If two-thirds of all the members elected to the house vote
in the affirmative, concurrence in the amendments shall be
effective.
   If the affirmative vote on either of such questions is less than
two-thirds of all the members elected to such house, the effect
is a refusal to concur in the amendment or amendments, and
the procedure thereupon shall be as provided in Joint Rule
No. 28.

          "When Senate or Assembly Refuse to Concur
   28. If the Senate (if it be a Senate bill) or the Assembly
(if it be an Assembly bill) refuse to concur in amendments
to the bill made by the other house, and when the other house
has been notified of such refusal to concur, a conference com-
mittee shall be appointed for each house in the manner pre-
scribed by these rules. The Committee on Rules in the case
of the Senate and the Speaker in the case of the Assembly
shall each appoint a committee of three (3) on conference,
and the Secretary or the Chief Clerk shall immediately notify
the other house of the action taken.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                  4039

                   Committee on Conference
  28.1. The Committee on Eules and the Speaker, in appoint-
ing a committee on conference, shall each select two mem-
bers from those voting with the majority on the point about
which the difference has arisen, and the other member from
the minority, in the event there is a minority vote.
   Whether a member has voted with the majority or minority
on the point about which the difference has arisen is deter-
mined by his vote on the appropriate rollcall, as follows:
   (1) I n the Assembly—
   (a) The rollcall on the question of final passage of a Sen-
ate bill amended in the Assembly when the Senate has refused
to concur with the Assembly amendments;
   (b) The rollcall on the question of concurrence with Sen-
ate amendments to an Assembly bill.
   (2) In the Senate—
   (a) The rollcall on the question of final passage of an
Assembly bill amended in the Senate when the Assembly has
refused to concur with the Senate amendments.
   (b) The rollcall on the question of concurrence with As-
sembly amendments to a Senate bill.

      Meetings and Reports of Committees on Conference

   29. The first Senator named on the conference committee
shall act as chairman of the committee from the Senate, and
the first Assemblyman named on such committee shall act as
chairman of the committee from the Assembly. The chairman
of the committee on conference for the house of origin of the
bill shall arrange the time and place of meeting of the con-
ference committee and shall prepare or direct the preparation
of reports. I t shall require an affirmative vote of not less
than two of the Assembly Members and two of the Senate
Members constituting the committee on conference to agree
upon a report, and the report shall be submitted to both the
Senate and the Assembly. The committee on conference shall
report to both the Senate and Assembly. Such report is not
subject to amendment, and if either house refuses to adopt
such report, the conferees shall be discharged and other con-
ferees appointed; provided, however, that no more than three
 different conference committees shall be appointed on any one
bill. No member who has served on a committee on conference
shall be appointed a member of another committee on confer-
 ence on the same bill. I t shall require the same affirmative re-
 corded vote to adopt any conference report as required by
the Constitution upon the final passage of the bill affected by
such report. It shall require an affirmative recorded vote of
two-thirds of the entire elected membership of each house
to adopt any conference report affecting any bill which con-
 tains an item or items of appropriation which are subject to
4040              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 352

subdivision (d) of Section 12 of Article IV of the Constitu-
tion. The report of a conference committee shall be in writ-
ing, and a copy of any amendments proposed in the report
shall be placed on the desk of each member of the house be-
fore it is acted upon by the house.
   The vote on concurrence or upon the adoption of such con-
ference report shall be deemed the vote upon final passage
of such bill.

        When Conference Committee Report Is in Order
   30. The presentation of the report of a committee on con-
ference shall always be in order, except when a question of
order or a motion to adjourn is pending, or during rollcall,
and, when received, the question of proceeding to the con-
sideration of the report, if raised, shall be immediately passed
upon, and shall be determined without debate.

       Conference Committee Reports on Urgency Statutes
    30.5. When the report of a committee on conference rec-
ommends the amendment of a bill by the addition of a sec-
tion providing that the act shall take effect immediately as an
urgency statute, the procedure and the vote thereon shall be
as follows:
   The presiding officer shall first direct that the urgency sec-
tion be read and put to a vote. If two-thirds of the members
elected to the house vote in the affirmative the presiding offi-
cer shall then direct that the question of whether the house
shall adopt the report of the committee on conference shall
be put to a vote. If two-thirds of all the members elected to
the house vote in the affirmative, the adoption of the report
and the amendments proposed thereby shall be effective.
   If the affirmative vote on either of such questions is less
than two-thirds of all the members elected to such house, the
effect is a refusal to adopt the report of the committee on
conference.
                  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

            Authority When Rules Do Not Govern
  31. All relations between the houses which are not covered
by these rules shall be governed by Mason's Manual.
                          Press Rules
   32. (a) Persons desiring privileges of accredited press rep-
resentatives shall make application to the Speaker of the
Assembly, as required by Rule 26 (k) of Assembly Rules, and
to the Committee on Rules of the Senate, as required by Rule
13 of Senate Rules; and shall state in writing the names of
the daily newspapers, news associations, or radio or tele-
vision stations by which they are employed, and what other
                     1969
Res. Ch. 352]               REGULAR SESSION                   4041

occupations or employment they may have, if any; and they
shall further declare that they are not employed, directly or
indirectly, to assist in the prosecution of the legislative busi-
ness of any person, corporation or association, and will not
become so employed while retaining the privilege of accredited
press representatives.
   (b) The applications required by the above rule shall be
authenticated in a manner that shall be satisfactory to the
Standing Committee of the Capitol Correspondents Associa-
tion which shall see that occupation of seats and desks in the
Senate and the Assembly chambers is confined to bona fide
correspondents of reputable standing in their business, who
represent daily newspapers requiring a daily file of legislative
news, or who represent news associations requiring daily tele-
graphic or radio or television service on legislative news. It
shall be the duty of the standing committee at their discretion,
to report violation of accredited press privileges to the Speaker
of the Assembly, or to the Senate Committee on Rules, and
pending action thereon the offending correspondent may be
suspended by the standing committee.
    (c) Persons engaged in other occupations whose chief atten-
tion is not given to newspaper correspondence or to news as-
sociations requiring telegraphic or radio or television service
shall not be entitled to the privileges accorded accredited press
representatives; and the press list in the Handbook of the Cali-
fornia Legislature and the Senate and Assembly Histories shall
be a list only of persons authenticated by the standing com-
mittee of correspondents.
    (d) The press seats and desks in the Senate and Assembly
chambers shall be under the control of the standing committee
of correspondents, subject to the approval and supervision of
the Speaker of the Assembly and the Senate Committee on
Rules. Press cards shall be issued by the President of the
Senate and the Speaker of the Assembly only to correspond-
 ents properly accredited in accordance with the provisions of
this rule.
    (e) One or more rooms shall be assigned for the exclusive
use of correspondents during the legislative session, which
rooms shall be known as the Press Room. The Press Room shall
be under the control of the Chief of the Bureau of Buildings
and Grounds; provided, that all rules and regulations shall
be approved by the Senate Committee on Rules and the
Speaker of the Assembly.
    (f) No accredited member of the Capitol Correspondents
Association shall, for compensation, perform any service for
 state constitutional officers or members of their staffs, for state
 agencies, for the Legislature, for candidates for state office,
 or for a state officeholder, or for any person registered or per-
 forming as a legislative advocate.
4042               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Ch. 352

                  Dispensing With Joint Kules
  33. No joint rule shall be dispensed with except by a vote
of two-thirds of each house; and Joint Kule No. 23 can be
dispensed with only in the manner provided for in that joint
rule. If either house shall violate a joint rule a question of
order may be raised in the other house and decided in the same
manner as in the case of the violation of the rules of such
house; and if it shall be decided that the joint rules have been
violated, the bill involving such violations shall be returned to
the house in which it originated, and such disputed matter be
considered in like manner as in conference committee.

                 Opinions of Legislative Counsel
   34. Whenever the Legislative Counsel issues an opinion to
any person other than the first-named author analyzing the
constitutionality, operation or effect of a bill or other legisla-
tive measure which is then pending before the Legislature or
of any amendment made or proposed to be made to such bill or
measure, he is authorized and instructed to deliver two copies
of the opinion to the first-named author as promptly as feasible
after the delivery of the original opinion and also to deliver a
copy to any other author of the bill or measure who so requests.
A copy of any letter prepared by the Legislative Counsel for
the sole purpose of advising a Member of a conflict between
two or more bills as to the sections of law being amended, re-
pealed, or added shall be submitted to the chairman of the
 committee to which each such bill has been referred.

           Resolutions Prepared by Legislative Counsel
   34.1. Whenever the Legislative Counsel has been requested
to draft a resolution commemorating or taking note of any
event, or a resolution congratulating or expressing sympathy
toward any person, and subsequently receives a similar request
from another Member of the Legislature, he shall inform that
requester and each subsequent requester that such a resolution
is being, or has been, prepared, and he shall inform them of
the name of the member for whom the resolution was, or is
being, prepared.

       Memorial Resolutions Regarding Members and Former
                   Members of the Legislature
   34.2. Whenever the death of a Member of the Legislature
or a former member whose service was particularly notable, or
any other person who has rendered exceptional service to
society or has been unusually prominent in public life occurs,
a concurrent resolution may be used as a memorial resolution
in respect thereto. I n all other instances a Senate resolution or
a House resolution, or both, shall be used as a memorial resolu-
tion with respect to the deaths of other persons. I n all cases a
                    1969
Res. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                 4043
Senate resolution or a House resolution, or both, shall be used
to congratulate any person or organization upon the occur-
rence of any significant event or achievement.

                 Identical Drafting Requests

   34.5. Whenever it shall come to the attention of the Legis-
lative Counsel that a member has requested the drafting of a
bill which will be substantially identical to one already intro-
duced he shall inform such member of that fact.

                     Expense of Members

   35. As provided in Section 8902 of the Government Code,
each Member of the Legislature is entitled to reimbursement
for living expenses while in attendance at sessions of the
Legislature, or while traveling to and from or in attendance
at a committee meeting, or while attending to any legislative
function or responsibility as authorized or directed by legisla-
tive rules or the rules committee of the house of which he is a
member at the same rate as may be established by the State
Board of Control for other elected state officers. Bach member
shall be reimbursed for travel expenses incurred in traveling
to and from a session of the Legislature, or when traveling to
and from a meeting of a committee of which he is a member,
or when traveling pursuant to any other legislative function
or responsibility as authorized or directed by legislative rules
or the rules committee of the house of which he is a member at
the rate prescribed by Section 8903 of the Government Code.
   As provided in Section 4 of Article I V of the Constitution,
members shall receive five cents ($0.05) per mile for traveling
to and from their homes in order to attend reconvening follow-
ing the 30-day recess after a regular session.
   Expense allowances for Members of the Senate and As-
sembly shall be approved and certified to the Controller by the
Secretary of the Senate, on behalf of the Senate, and the Chief
Clerk of the Assembly or other person authorized by the As-
sembly Committee on Rules, on behalf of the Assembly, weekly
or as otherwise directed by either house, and upon such cer-
tification the Controller shall draw his warrants in payment of
the allowances to the respective members.

                   Investigating Committees
   36. I n order to expedite the work of the Legislature either
house, or both houses jointly, may by resolution or statute pro-
vide for the appointment of committees to ascertain facts and
to make recommendations as to any subject within the scope
of legislative regulation or control.
   The resolution providing for the appointment of a commit-
tee shall state the purpose of the committee, and the scope of
4044              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [J{,eS- (jh. 352

the subject concerning which it is to act and may authorize it
to act either during sessions of the Legislature or, when such
authorization may lawfully be made, after final adjournment.
   I n the exercise of the power granted by this rule, each com-
mittee may appoint a secretary and adopt and amend such
rules governing its procedure (including the fixing of its own
quorum and the number of votes necessary to take action on
any matter) as may appear necessary and proper to carry out
the powers granted and duties imposed under this rule. It may
employ such clerical, legal and technical assistants as may
appear necessary.
   Each such committee is authorized and empowered to sum-
mon and subpoena witnesses, require the production of papers,
books, accounts, reports, documents, records and papers of
every kind and description, to issue subpoenas and to take all
necessary means to compel the attendance of witnesses and to
procure testimony, oral and documentary.
   Bach member of such committees is authorized and empow-
ered to administer oaths, and all of the provisions of Chapter
4 (commencing with Section 9400), P a r t 1, Division 2, Title
2 of the Government Code, relating to the attendance and
examination of witnesses before the Legislature and the com-
mittees thereof, shall apply to such committees.
   The Sergeant at Arms of the Senate or Assembly, or such
other person as may be designated by the chairman of the
committee, shall serve any and all subpoenas, orders and other
process that may be issued by the committee, when directed to
do so by the chairman or by a majority of the membership of
the committee.
   Every department, commission, board, agency, officer and
employee of the state government, including the Legislative
Counsel and the Attorney General and their subordinates, and
of every political subdivision, county, city, or public district
of or in this state, shall give and furnish to these committees
and to their subcommittees upon request such information,
records and documents as the committees deem necessary or
proper for the achievement of the purposes for which each
such committee was created.
   Each such committee may meet at any time during the
period in which it is authorized to act, even though the Legis-
lature is in session, either, at the State Capitol or at any other
place in the State of California, in public or executive session,
and do any and all things necessary or convenient to enable
it to exercise the powers and perform the duties herein granted
to it or accomplish the objects and purposes of the resolution
creating it. Each such committee may expend such money as
may be made available to it for such purpose but no committee
shall incur any indebtedness unless money shall have been first
made available therefor.
   No living expenses shall be allowed in connection with
service upon a legislative committee for a day where the mem-
                    1969
Res. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                  4045
ber is entitled to reimbursement for expenses due to attend-
ance at a session of the Legislature. The chairman of each
committee shall audit and approve the expense claims of the
members of the committee including claims for mileage in
connection with attendance on committee business, or in con-
nection with specific assignments by the committee chairman,
but excluding other types of mileage, and shall certify the
amount approved to the Controller, and the Controller shall
draw his warrants upon the certification of the chairman.
   The chairman of any such committee may appoint subcom-
mittees and chairmen thereof for the purpose of more expedi-
tiously handling and considering matters referred to it, and
such subcommittees and the chairmen thereof shall have all
the powers and authority herein conferred upon the committee
and its chairman. The chairman of such subcommittee shall
audit the expense claims of the members of such subcommittees
and other claims and the expenses incurred by it and shall
certify the amount thereof to the chairman of the committee
who shall, if he approves the same, certify the amount thereof
to the Controller, and the Controller shall draw his warrant
therefor upon such certification, and the Treasurer shall pay
the same. Whenever such committee or any subcommittee
thereof is authorized to leave the State of California in the
performance of its duties, then such committee or subcommittee
shall, while out of the state, have the same authority as if it
were acting and functioning within the state, and the members
thereof shall be entitled to receive the same expense allowances
as if the committee were functioning within the state.
   Notwithstanding any provision of this rule, if the standing
rules of either house require that expense claims of members
of committees be audited or approved, after approval of the
committee chairman, by another agency of either house, the
Controller shall draw his warrants only upon the certification
of such other agency.
   Except salary claims of employees clearly subject to federal
withheld tax and the requirement as to loyalty oaths, claims
presented for services or pursuant to contract shall refer to
the agreement, the terms of which shall be made available to
the Controller.

           Expenses of Interim Committee Employees
   36.1. Unless otherwise provided by respective house or com-
mittee rule or resolution, employees of legislative committees
shall, when entitled to traveling expenses, be entitled to allow-
ances in lieu of actual expenses for hotel accommodations,
breakfast, lunch, and dinner, at the rates fixed by the Board of
Control from time to time in limitation of reimbursement of
expenses of state employees generally; provided, that if an
allowance for hotel accommodations, breakfast, lunch and
dinner is made by a committee at a rate in excess of those fixed
4046              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [Res. Ch. 352

by the Board of Control the chairman of the committee shall
notify the Controller of that fact in writing.

                  Appointment of Committees
   36.5. The provisions of this rule shall apply whenever a
joint interim committee is created by a statute or resolution
which either provides that appointments be made and vacan-
cies be filled in the manner provided for in the Joint Rules, or
which makes no provision for the appointment of members or
the filling of vacancies.
   The Senate members of the committee shall be appointed by
the Senate Committee on Rules; the Assembly members of the
committee shall be appointed by the Speaker; and vacancies
occurring in the membership of the committee shall be filled
by the respective appointing powers. The members appointed
shall hold over until their successors are regularly selected.

          Appointment of Joint Committee Chairmen
   36.7. The chairman of each joint committee heretofore or
hereafter created, except the Joint Legislative Budget Com-
mittee and the Joint Legislative Audit Committee, shall be
appointed by the Joint Committee on Legislative Organiza-
tion from a member or members recommended by the Senate
Committee on Rules and the Speaker of the Assembly.

                    Joint Committee Funds
  36.8. Each joint committee, heretofore or hereafter cre-
ated, except the Joint Legislative Budget Committee and the
Joint Legislative Audit Committee, shall expend the funds
heretofore or hereafter made available to it in accordance
with the rules and regulations adopted by the Joint, Com-
mittee on Legislative Organization.

                Legislative Budget Committee
   37. In addition to any other committee provided for by
these rules, there shall be a joint committee to be known and
called the Legislative Budget Committee, which is hereby de-
clared to be a continuing body.
   It shall be the duty of the committee to ascertain facts and
make recommendations to the Legislature and to the houses
thereof concerning the state budget, the revenues and expend-
itures of the state, and of the organization and functions of
the state, its departments, subdivisions and agencies, with a
view of reducing the cost of the state government, and secur-
ing greater efficiency and economy.
   The committee shall consist of seven Members of the Senate
and seven Members of the Assembly. The Senate members of
the committee shall consist of seven Members of the Senate
appointed by the Committee on Rules. The Assembly members
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                4047
of the committee shall consist of seven Members of the Assem-
bly appointed by the Speaker. The committee shall select its
own chairman.
   Any vacancies occurring between regular sessions, in the
Senate membership of the Legislative Budget Committee, shall
be filled by the Senate Committee on Rules, and the Senators
appointed shall hold over until their successors are regularly
selected. For the purposes of this provision, a vacancy shall be
deemed to exist as to a Senator whose term is expiring when-
ever he is not reelected at the general election.
   Any vacancies occurring between regular sessions, in the
Assembly membership of the Legislative Budget Committee,
shall be filled by the Speaker of the Assembly, and the Mem-
bers of the Assembly appointed shall hold over until their
successors are regularly selected. For the purposes of this pro-
vision, a vacancy shall be deemed to exist as to a Member of
the Assembly whose term is expiring whenever he is not re-
elected at the general election.
   Any vacancy occurring at any time in the Assembly mem-
bership of the committee shall be filled by appointment by the
Speaker.
   The committee shall have the authority to make rules to
govern its own proceedings and its employees. It may also
create subcommittees from its membership, assigning to its
subcommittees any study, inquiry, investigation or hearing
which the committee itself has authority to undertake or hold,
and the subcommittee for the purpose of this assignment shall
have and may exercise all the powers conferred upon the
committee, limited only by the expressed terms of any rule or
resolution of the committee defining the powers and duties of
the subcommittee. Such powers may be withdrawn or termi-
nated at any time by the committee.
   The Legislative Budget Committee may render services to
any investigating committee of the Legislature pursuant to
contract between the Legislative Budget Committee and the
committee for which the services are to be performed. The
contract may provide for payment to the Legislative Budget
Committee of the cost of such services from the funds appro-
priated to the contracting investigating committee. All legis-
lative investigating committees are authorized to enter such
contracts with the Legislative Budget Committee. Money re-
ceived by the Legislative Budget Committee pursuant to any
such agreement shall be in augmentation of the current appro-
priation for the support of the Legislative Budget Committee.
   The provisions of Joint Rule 36 above shall apply to the
Legislative Budget Committee, and it shall have all the au-
thority provided in such rule or pursuant to Section 11 of
 Article IV of the Constitution.
   The committee shall have authority to appoint a Legislative
Analyst, to fix his compensation and to prescribe his duties,
 and to appoint such other clerical and technical employees as
4048               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 352

 may appear necessary. The duties of the Legislative Analyst
 shall be as follows:
    (1) To ascertain the facts and make recommendations to
 the Budget Committee and under their direction to the com-
 mittees of the Legislature concerning:
    (a) State budget.
    (b) Eevenues and expenditures of the state.
    (c) The organization and functions of the state, its depart-
 ments, subdivisions and agencies.
    (2) To assist the Senate Finance Committee and the Assem-
 bly Ways and Means Committee in consideration of the budget
 and all bills carrying express or implied appropriations and
 all legislation affecting state departments and their efficiency;
 to appear before any other legislative committee, and to assist
any other legislative committees upon instruction by the Legis-
lative Budget Committee.
    (3) To provide all legislative committees and Members of
 the Legislature with information obtained under the direction
 of the Legislative Budget Committee.
    (4) To maintain a record of all work performed by the
 Legislative Analyst under the direction of the Legislative
Budget Committee and to keep and make available all docu-
ments, data and reports submitted to him by any Senate,
Assembly or joint committee. The committee may meet either
 during sessions of the Legislature, any recess thereof, or after
final adjournment, and may meet or conduct business at any
place within the State of California.
    The chairman of the committee or, in the event of his in-
ability to act, the vice chairman shall audit and approve the
expenses of members of the committee or salaries of the em-
ployees, and all other expenses incurred in connection with
the performance of its duties by the committee, and the chair-
man shall certify the amount approved to the Controller,
and the Controller shall draw his warrants upon the certi-
fication of the chairman, and the Treasurer shall pay the
same to the chairman of the committee to be disbursed by
him.
    On and after the commencement of a succeeding regular
session those members of the committee who continue to be
Members of the Senate and Assembly, respectively, continue
as members of the committee until their successors are ap-
pointed, and the committee continues with all its powers,
duties, authority, records, papers, personnel and staff, and all
funds theretofore made available for its use.
   Upon the conclusion of its work, any Assembly, Senate, or
joint committee (other than a standing committee) shall de-
liver to the Legislative Analyst for use and custody, available
to the Members of the Legislature, all documents, data, re-
ports and other materials that have come into the possession
of such committee and which are not included within the
final report of such committee to the Assembly, Senate, or
the Legislature, as the case may be.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 3521              REGULAR SESSION                4049

   The Legislative Analyst with the consent of the committee
shall make available to such members or committees any rec-
ords, documents or other data under his control or shall secure
and provide any information falling within the scope of his
employment or which concerns the administration of the
government of the State of California. But, except as herein-
above provided, neither the Legislative Analyst nor any
employee of the committee shall reveal to any person not a
member of or employed by the committee the contents or nature
of any matter or the author of any request, except with the
permission of the committee or legislator making such re-
quest, or under the express direction of the Legislative Budget
Committee.
  The Legislative Analyst, upon the receipt of a request from
any committee or Member of the Legislature, shall at once
secure the consent of the committee without disclosing the
nature of the request or the name of the requester to provide
the requesting committee or legislator with the service or in-
formation requested, and thereupon shall notify the requester
or committee or legislator that he is authorized to provide the
information, and shall inform the committee or legislator the
approximate date when this information will be available.
Should there be any material delay he shall subsequently
communicate this fact to the requester. I n the event the com-
mittee refuses such authorization, he shall inform such re-
quester forthwith.

          Eegistration of Legislative Representatives
   37.5. In addition to the duties hereinabove prescribed the
Legislative Analyst is directed, so long as he is designated to
be " c l e r k " or "secretary" pursuant to subdivision (d) of
Section 9900 of the Government Code, to assign one or more
members of his staff to carry out the filing duties imposed
by Sections 9900 through 9907 of the Government Code, but
he shall undertake no duties which are not specifically author-
ized by the Joint Rules, by contracts entered into pursuant
to such rules, or by direction of the Legislative Budget Com-
mittee.
                            Adjournment
  38. Adjournment sine die shall be made only by concurrent
resolution.
              Designating Legislative Sessions
  39. All regular sessions of the Legislature shall be desig-
nated by the year in which held, and all extraordinary sessions
shall be designated in numerical order by the year in which
convened.
                        Easter Recess
  39.1. Each House of the Legislature shall be in recess each
year from adjournment of its session on the Friday next
4050              STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA            [R e S - Qh. 352

preceding Good Friday until the time set for reconvening on
the Monday next following Easter Sunday.
         Joint Committee on Legislative Organization
   40. The Joint Committee on Legislative Organization is
hereby created. The committee has a continuing existence and
may meet, act, and conduct its business during sessions of the
Legislature or any recess thereof, and in the interim period
between sessions.
   The committee shall consist of seven members of the As-
sembly Committee on Rules and five members of the Senate
Committee on Rules, the Speaker of the Assembly, and three
Members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Com-
mittee on Rules. Vacancies occurring in the membership shall
be filled by the appointing power.
   The committee and its members shall have and exercise all
of the rights, duties and powers conferred upon investigating
committees and their members by the provisions of the Joint
Rules of the Senate and Assembly as they are adopted and
amended from time to time at this session, which provisions
are incorporated herein and made applicable to this committee
and its members.
   The committee shall ascertain facts and make recommenda-
tions to the Legislature and to the houses thereof concerning:
    (a) The relationship between the two houses and proce-
dures calculated to expedite the affairs of the Legislature by
improving that relationship.
    (b) The legislative branch of the state government and
any defects or deficiencies in the law governing that branch.
    (e) Methods whereby legislation is proposed, considered
and acted upon.
    (d) The operation of the Legislature, and the committees
thereof, and the means of coordinating the work thereof and
 avoiding duplication of effort.
    (e) Aids to the Legislature.
    (f) Information and statistics for the use of the Legislature,
 the respective houses thereof, and the members.
   Any matter of business of either house, the transaction of
which would affect the interests of the other house, may be
 referred to the committee for action if the Legislature is in
 session, and shall be referred to the committee for action if
 the Legislature is not in session.
    The committee has the following additional powers and du-
 ties:
    (a) To select a chairman and a vice chairman from its mem-
 bership.
    (b) To allocate space in the State Capitol Building and all
 annexes and additions thereto as provided by law.
    (c) To approve, as provided by law, the appearance of the
 Legislative Counsel in litigation.
                    1969
Res. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                  4051
    (d) To contract with such other agencies, public or private,
as it deems necessary for the rendition and affording of such
services, facilities, studies and reports to the committee as will
best assist it to carry out the purposes for which it is created.
    (e) To cooperate with and secure the cooperation of county,
city, city and county, and other local law enforcement agencies
in investigating any matter within the scope of this resolution
and to direct the sheriff of any county to serve subpoenas,
orders and other process issued by the committee.
    (f) To report its findings and recommendations, including
recommendations for the needed revision of any and all laws
and constitutional provisions relating to the Legislature, to
the Legislature and to the people from time to time and at
any time.
    (g) The committee, and any subcommittee when so author-
ized by the committee, may meet and act without as well as
within the State of California, and is authorized to leave the
state in the performance of its duties.
    (h) To expend such funds as may be made available to it
to carry out the functions and activities related to the legis-
lative affairs of the Senate and Assembly.
    (i) To appoint a chief administrative officer of the com-
mittee, who shall have such duties relating to the adminis-
trative, fiscal and business affairs of the committee as the
committee shall prescribe. The committee may terminate the
services of the chief administrative officer at any time.
    (j) To appoint the chairman of joint committees, as author-
ized by Joint Eule 36.7.
    (k) To adopt rules and regulations governing the expendi-
ture of funds by joint committees, as authorized by Joint Rule
36.8. Such rules and regulations shall include a requirement
for the approval of such claims as the committee deems neces-
sary by the committee or its designee.
    (I) To do any and all other things necessary or convenient
 to enable it fully and adequately to exercise its powers, per-
form its duties, and accomplish the objects and purposes of
 this resolution.
    The committee shall succeed to, and is vested with, all of
 the powers and duties of the State Capitol Committee, the
 Joint Committee on Interhouse Cooperation, the Joint Legis-
 lative Committee for School Visitations, and the Joint Stand-
 ing Committee on the Joint Rules of the Senate and the As-
 sembly.
                Claims for Workmen's Compensation

  41. The Chairman of the Rules Committee of each house, or
his designated representative, shall sign any required work-
men's compensation report regarding injuries or death arising
out of and within the course of employment suffered by any
member, officer or employee of the house, or any employee of a
standing or interim committee thereof. In the case of a joint
4052              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [ReS. Ch. 352

committee, the Chairman of the Rules Committee of either
house, or his designated representative, may sign any such
report in respect to a member or employee of such joint com-
mittee.

        Information Concerning Interim Committees
   42. The Rules Committee of each house shall provide for a
continuous cumulation during interim periods between sessions
of the Legislature of information concerning the membership,
organization, meetings and studies of legislative investigating
committees. Bach Rules Committee shall be responsible for
information concerning the investigating committees of its own
house and concerning joint investigating committees under the
chairmanship of a member of that house. To the extent pos-
sible, each Rules Committee shall seek to insure that the in-
vestigating committees for which it has responsibility under
this rule have organized, including the organization of any
subcommittees, and have had all topics for study assigned to
them within 30 days after the adjournment of each regular
session of the Legislature.
   The information thus cumulated shall be made available to
the public by the Rules Committee of each house and shall be
published periodically under their joint direction.

                        Joint Committees
  43. Concurrent resolutions creating joint committees of the
Legislature and concurrent resolutions allocating moneys from
the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate to such com-
mittees shall be referred to the Committees on Rules of the
respective houses.
                      Conflict of Interest
   44. (a) No Member of the Legislature shall, while serving
as such, have any interest, financial or otherwise, direct or in-
direct, or engage in any business or transaction or professional
activity, or incur any obligation of any nature, which is in
substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in
the public interest and of his responsibilities as prescribed in
the laws of this state.
   (b) No Member of the Legislature shall, during the term
for which he was elected:
   (1) Accept other employment which he has reason to be-
lieve will either impair his independence of judgment as to
his official duties or require him, or induce him, to disclose
confidential information acquired by him in the course of and
by reason of his official duties;
   (2) Willfully and knowingly disclose, for pecuniary gain,
to any other person, confidential information acquired by him
                    19G9
Ees. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                  4053

in the course of and by reason of his official duties or use any
such information for the purpose of pecuniary gain;
   (3) Accept or agree to accept, or be in partnership with
any person who accepts or agrees to accept, any employment,
fee, or other thing of value, or portion thereof, in considera-
tion of his appearing, agreeing to appear, or taking any other
action on behalf of another person regarding a licensing or
regulatory matter, before any state board or agency which is
established by law for the primary purpose of licensing or
regulating the professional activity of persons licensed, pur-
suant to state law; provided, that this rule shall not be
construed to prohibit a member who is an attorney at law
from practicing in such capacity before the "Workmen's Com-
pensation Appeals Board or the Commissioner of Corpora-
tions, and receiving compensation therefor, or from prac-
ticing for compensation before any state board or agency in
connection with, or in any matter related to, any case, action,
or proceeding filed and pending in any state or federal court;
and provided that this rule shall not act to prohibit a mem-
ber from making inquiry for information on behalf of a con-
stituent before a state board or agency, if no fee or reward
is given or promised in consequence thereof; and provided
that the prohibition contained in this rule shall not apply to
a partnership in which the Member of the Legislature is a
member if the Member of the Legislature does not share
directly or indirectly in the fee resulting from the transaction;
and provided that the prohibition contained in this rule shall
not apply in connection with any matter pending before any
state board of agency on the operative date of this rule if the
affected Member of the Legislature is attorney of record or
representative in the matter prior to such operative date;
   (4) Receive or agree to receive, directly or indirectly, any
compensation, reward, or gift from any source except the
State of California for any service, advice, assistance or other
matter related to the legislative process, except fees for
speeches or published works on legislative subjects and ex-
cept, in connection therewith, reimbursement of expenses for
actual expenditures for travel and reasonable subsistence for
which no payment or reimbursement is made by the State of
California;
   (5) Participate, by voting or any other action, on the floor
of either house, or in committee or elsewhere, in the enactment
or defeat of legislation in which he has a personal interest,
except as follows:
   (i) If, on the vote for final passage by the house of which
he is a member, of the legislation in which he has a personal
interest, he first files a statement (which shall be entered ver-
batim on the journal) stating in substance that he has a per-
sonal interest in the legislation to be voted on and notwith-
standing such interest, he is able to cast a fair and objective
vote on such legislation, he may cast his vote without violating
any provision of this rule;
4054              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Ch. 352

    (ii) If the member believes that, because of his personal
interest, he should abstain from participating in the vote on
the legislation, he shall so advise the presiding officer prior
to the commencement of the vote and shall be excused from
voting on the legislation without any entry on the journal of
the fact of his personal interest. In the event a rule of the
house, requiring that each member who is present vote aye
or nay is invoked, the presiding officer shall order the member
excused from compliance and shall order entered on the
journal a simple statement that the member was excused from
voting on the legislation pursuant to law.
    (c) A person subject to this rule has an interest which is
in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties
 in the public interest and of his responsibilities as prescribed
in the laws of this state or a personal interest, arising from
 any situation, within the scope of this rule, if he has reason
to believe or expect that he will derive a direct monetary gain
 or suffer a direct monetary loss, as the case may be, by rea-
 son of his official activity. He does not have an interest which
 is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his
 duties in the public interest and of his responsibilities as pre-
 scribed by the laws of this state or a personal interest, arising
 from any situation, within the scope of this rule, if any benefit
 or detriment accrues to him as a member of a business, profes-
 sion, occupation, or group to no greater extent than any other
 member of such business, profession, occupation, or group.
     (d) A person subject to the provisions of this rule shall
 not be deemed to be engaged in any activity which is in sub-
 stantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in
 the public interest and of his responsibilities as prescribed by
 the laws of this state, arising from any situation, or to have
 a personal interest, arising from any situation, within the
 scope of this rule, solely by reason of any of the following:
     (1) His relationship to any potential beneficiary of any
 situation is one which is defined as a remote interest by Sec-
 tion 1091 of the Government Code or is otherwise not deemed
 to be a prohibited interest by Section 1091.1 or 1091.5 of the
 Government Code.
     (2) Receipt of a campaign contribution regulated, received,
 reported, and accounted for pursuant to Division 8 (commenc-
 ing with Section 11500) of the Elections Code, so long as the
 contribution is not made on the understanding or agreement,
 in violation of law, that the person's vote, opinion, judgment,
 or action will be influenced thereby.
     (e) The enumeration in this rule of specific situations or
 conditions which are deemed not to result in substantial con-
 flicts with the proper discharge of the duties and responsibili-
 ties of a legislator or legislative employee or in a personal
  interest shall not be construed as exclusive.
     The Legislature in adopting this rule recognizes that Mem-
 bers of the Legislature and legislative employees may need to
                     1969
Res. Ch. 352]               REGULAR SESSION                4055

engage in employment, professional, or business activities other
than legislative activities, in order to maintain a continuity
of professional or business activity, or may need to maintain
investments, which activities or investments do not conflict
with the specific provisions of the chapter. However, in con-
struing and administering the provisions of the rule, weight
should be given to any coincidence of income, employment, in-
vestment, or other profit from sources which may be identified
with the interests represented by those sources which are seek-
ing action of any character on matters then pending before
the Legislature.
   (f) No employee of either house of the Legislature shall,
during the time he is so employed, commit any act or engage
in any activity prohibited by any p a r t of this rule.
   (g) No person shall induce or seek to induce any Member
of the Legislature to violate any part of this rule.
   (h) Violations of these rules are punishable as provided in
Section 8926 of the Government Code.

                Joint Legislative Ethics Committee
   45. (a) The Joint Legislative Ethics Committee is hereby
created. The committee shall consist of three Members of the
Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules and three
Members of the Assembly appointed by the Speaker of the
Assembly. Of the three members appointed from each house,
at least one from each house shall be a member of the political
party having the largest number of members in that house
and at least one from each house shall be a member of the po-
litical party having the second largest number of members in
that house. The committee shall elect its own chairman. Vacan-
cies occurring in the membership of the committee shall be
filled in the manner provided for in these rules for other com-
mittees. A vacancy shall be deemed to exist as to any member
of the committee whose term is expiring whenever such mem-
ber is not reelected at the general election.
    (b) The committee is authorized to make rules governing
its own proceedings. The provisions of Rule 36 of the Joint
Rules of the Senate and Assembly relating to investigating
committees shall apply to the committee.
    Prior to the issuance of any subpoena by the committee with
respect to any matter before the committee, it shall by a reso-
lution adopted by a vote of two members of the committee
from each house of the Legislature define the nature and scope
of its investigation in the matter before it.
    (c) Funds for the support of the committee shall be pro-
vided from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and the
Senate in the same manner that such funds are made avail-
able to other joint committees of the Legislature.
    (d) The committee shall have power, pursuant to the pro-
visions of this rule, to investigate and make findings and
4056               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [EeS. Ch. 352

 recommendations concerning alleged violations by Members of
 the Legislature of the provisions of Rule 44.
     (e) Any person may: (a) file with the committee a verified
 complaint in writing which shall state the name of the Mem-
 ber of the Legislature alleged to have committed the violation
 complained of, and which shall set forth the particulars
 thereof, or (b) file a complaint concerning the alleged violation
 by a Member of the Legislature with the district attorney of
 the appropriate county.
    If a person files a complaint with respect to any alleged
violation by a Member of the Legislature with the committee,
 he may not thereafter file a complaint to institute a criminal
 prosecution for such violation until the committee has ren-
 dered its report or until a period of 120 days has elapsed
 since the filing of the complaint. If a complaint is filed with
 the appropriate district attorney by any person concerning
 an alleged violation by a Member of the Legislature of any
 provision of Eule 44, such person may not thereafter file
 a complaint with respect to such alleged violation with the
 committee.
    If a complaint is filed with the committee, the committee
 shall promptly send a copy of the complaint to the Member
 of the Legislature alleged to have committed the violation
 complained of, who shall thereafter be designated as the re-
 spondent.
    No complaint may be filed with the committee after the
 expiration of six months from the date upon which the al-
 leged violation occurred.
    (f) If the committee determines that the verified complaint
 does not allege facts, directly or upon information and belief,
 sufficient to constitute a violation of any of the provisions of
Rule 44, it shall dismiss the complaint and notify the com-
plainant and respondent thereof. If the committee determines
that such verified complaint does allege facts, directly or upon
information and belief, sufficient to constitute a violation of
 any of the provisions of Rule 44, the committee shall promptly
investigate the alleged violation and, if after such preliminary
investigation, the committee finds that probable cause exists
for believing the allegations of the complaint, it shall fix a
time for a hearing in the matter, which shall be not more
than 30 days after such finding. If, after the preliminary
investigation, the committee finds that probable cause does
not exist for believing the allegations of the complaint, the
committee shall dismiss the complaint. In either event the
committee shall notify the complainant and respondent of its
determination.
    (g) After the complaint has been filed the respondent shall
be entitled to examine and make copies of all evidence in the
possession of the committee relating to the complaint.
   (h) If a hearing is to be held pursuant to subdivision (f)
the committee, before the hearing has commenced, shall issue
                    1969
Res. Ch. 352]              REGULAR SESSION                  4057
subpoenas and subpoenas duces tecum at the request of any
party in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 4 (com-
mencing with Section 9400), Part 1, Division 2, Title 2 of
the Government Code. All of the provisions of Chapter 4,
except Section 9410, shall be applicable to the committee and
the witnesses before it.
    (i) At any hearing held by the committee:
    (1) Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirma-
tion.
    (2) Bach party shall have these rights: to be represented
by legal counsel; to call and examine witnesses; to introduce
exhibits; and to cross-examine opposing witnesses.
    (3) The hearing shall be open to the public.
    (j) Any official or other person whose name is mentioned
at any investigation or hearing of the committee and who be-
lieves that testimony has been given which adversely affects
him, shall have the right to testify or, at the discretion of the
committee, to file a statement of facts under oath relating
solely to the material relevant to the testimony of which he
complains.
    (k) After the hearing the committee shall state its find-
ings of fact. If the committee finds that the respondent has
not violated any provisions of Rule 44, it shall order the action
dismissed, and shall notify the respondent and complainant
thereof and shall also transmit a copy of the complaint and
the fact of dismissal to the Attorney General and to the dis-
trict attorney of the appropriate county. If the committee finds
that the respondent has violated any provisions of Rule 44, it
shall state its findings of fact and submit a report thereon to
the house in which the respondent serves, send a copy of such
findings and report to the complainant and respondent, and
the committee shall also report thereon to the Attorney Gen-
eral and to the district attorney of the appropriate county.
    (I) Nothing in this chapter shall preclude any person from
instituting a prosecution for violation of any provision of Rule
44 unless such person has filed a complaint with the committee
concerning such violation, in which case such person may not
file a complaint with the district attorney of the appropriate
county to institute a criminal prosecution for such violation
until the committee has made its determination of the matter
or a period of 120 days has elapsed since the filing of the
complaint with the committee.
    (m) The filing of a complaint with the committee pursuant
to this rule suspends the running of the statute of limitations
applicable to any violation of the provisions of Rule 44 while
such complaint is pending.
    (n) The committee shall maintain a record of its investi-
gations, inquiries, and proceedings. All records, complaints,
documents, reports filed with or submitted to or made by the
committee, and all records and transcripts of any investiga-
tions, inquiries or hearings of the committee under this rule
4058               STATUTES OP CALIFQKNIA                [Res. Ch. 353

shall be deemed confidential and shall not be open to inspec-
tion by any person other than a member of the committee, an
employee of the committee, or a state employee designated to
assist the committee, except as otherwise specifically provided
in this rule. The committee may, by adoption of a resolution,
authorize the release to the Attorney General or to the district
attorney of the appropriate county of any information, rec-
ords, complaints, documents, reports, and transcripts in its
possession material to any matter pending before the Attor-
ney General or the district attorney. All matters presented at
a public hearing of the committee and all reports of the com-
mittee stating a final finding of fact pursuant to subdivision
 (k) shall be public records and open to public inspection. Any
employee of the committee who divulges any matter which is
deemed to be confidential by this subdivision is punishable as
 provided in Section 8953 of the Government Code.
    (o) All actions of the committee shall require the concur-
 rence of two members of the committee from each house.
    (p) The committee may render advisory opinions to Mem-
 bers of the Legislature with respect to the provisions of Rule
 44 and their application and construction. The committee may
 secure an opinion from the Legislative Counsel for this pur-
 pose or issue its own opinion.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 353
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 158—Relative
                    to Douglas Boulevard.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, There exists a severe traffic congestion problem
on Douglas Boulevard between the entrance to the Folsom
State Park and the Auburn-Folsom Road; and
  "WHEREAS, The congestion is the result of large numbers of
park visitors parking outside of the park and walking into
the park; and
   WHEREAS, The congestion makes vehicular and pedestrian
travel on this portion of Douglas Boulevard extremely hazard-
ous; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Di-
vision of Highways of the Department of Public Works to
study the congestion problem on Douglas Boulevard between
the entrance to the Folsom State Park and the Auburn-Folsom
Road and to report its findings and recommendations to the
Legislature not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970
Regular Session; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Public Works.
                                  1969
Res. Ch. 355]                            REGULAR SESSION              4059

                        RESOLUTION CHAPTER 354
               Senate Joint Resolution No. 12—Relative to
                       school nutrition programs.
                  [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The proposed federal budget for 1970, submitted
by President Johnson, deleted provisions for the school milk
programs; and
  WHEREAS, Under existing budget provisions school lunch
program funds will terminate on October 31, 1969; and
  WHEREAS, There are many families in the United States
and California who, because of their financial condition, have
an inadequate diet; and
  WHEREAS, The school milk program and the school lunch
programs supplemented the inadequate diet of the children of
L l l P S P T?]"millP^l * ATIfl
   WHEREAS, H.R. 515 and H.E. 516, Perkins and S.B. 2548,
Talmadge, will strengthen and extend existing child nutrition
programs; and
   WHEREAS, S.B. 644, McGovern, and H.R. 5568, Sisk, will
provide funds for the continuation and improvement of the
school milk program; and
  WHEREAS, The lack of an adequately balanced diet among
schoolchildren contributes in part to their poor performances
in school; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved oy the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President, the Secretary of Agri-
culture, the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, and
the Congress, to give support to and to continue the programs
that provide nutritional food services for schoolchildren t h a t
are currently deprived of adequate diet; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare, to the Speaker of the House
of Representatives, and to each Senator and Representative
from California in the Congress of the United States.


                        RESOLUTION CHAPTER 355
           Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 80—Relative to
                   the memory of John R. Trainor.
                   [Piled with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, John R. Trainor, late Mayor of the City of Red
Bluff, was for many years exceedingly interested, active, and
effective in supporting the development of the highway pro-
gram in northern California; and
4060                 STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ R e S - Qh. 356

   WHEREAS, He served as a director for many years and was
serving as president of Highway 36 Association until his un-
timely death; and
   WHEREAS, The Highway 36 Association at its annual meet-
ing at Fortuna on August 3, 1968, and the City Council of the
City of Red Bluff at a meeting on August 6, 1968, passed reso-
lutions requesting that a bridge on Eoute 36 be named in his
memory; and
   WHEREAS, It is only fitting that his long and dedicated
service to the development of highways in northern California
be given permanent recognition by the people of this state;
now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the bridge now under con-
struction on State Highway Route 36 across the South Pork
of Cottonwood Creek is hereby officially designated the John
R. Trainor Memorial Bridge; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Department of Public Works be directed
to erect appropriate signs and markers showing this official
dedication; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Public Works.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 356
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 109—Relative to the
               Division of Forestry District #3 office.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.3

   WHEREAS, The Division of Forestry will be required to move
its present District #3 office, which is located on the Sacra-
mento State College campus, to a new location in 1974; and
   WHEREAS, The division has proposed moving such office to a
location on Highway 50 at Cordova Lane in Sacramento
County; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members request the Sec-
retary of the Resources Agency to study possibilities of moving
the Division of Forestry District #3 office to a location within
the Third Senatorial District and the Sixth Assembly District,
where the majority of the activities of the district office takes
place, rather than to the proposed site on Highway 50 at Cor-
dova Lane in Sacramento County, when such office is required
to be moved in 1974, and to report thereon to the Legislature
not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular
Session; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Secretary of the Resources Agency.
                      i96s
 Res. Ch. 358]               REGtrLAK SESSION                  4061

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 357
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 145—Relative
          to the Interstate 5 bridge above Sacramento.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

   WHEEBAS, During the conflict in Vietnam nearly 600
men from Sacramento, Placer, Yolo, Yuba, and E l Dorado
Counties have been killed; and
   WHEEBAS, The bridge across the Sacramento Iliver above
 Sacramento on Interstate 5 will serve the citizens of these
counties; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Members urge the De-
partment of Public Works to place a plaque on the bridge
across the Sacramento River above Sacramento on Interstate
5 dedicating the bridge to the memory of the men of Sacra-
mento, Placer, Yolo, Yuba, and El Dorado Counties who gave
their lives in Vietnam; and be it further
  Resolved, That the department is urged to accept donations
from the public and apply them to the placing and mainte-
nance of the plaque; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of Public Works.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 358
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 60—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by amending Section
  7 of, and by adding Section 7.5 to, Article IX thereof, re-
  lating to public education.
           [Piled with Secretary of State August 19, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular
Session commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-
thirds of the members elected to each of the two houses of the
Legislature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of
the State of California that the Constitution of the state be
amended as follows:
  First—That Section 7 of Article I X be amended to read:
  SEC. 7. The Legislature shall provide for the appointment
or election of the State Board of Education and a board of
education in each county.
  Second—That Section 7.5 be added to Article IX, to read:
  SEC. 7.5. The State Board of Education shall adopt text-
books for use in grades one through eight throughout the
State, to be furnished without cost as provided by statute.
4062              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                   [ft e s . (ft. 359

              EESOLUTION CHAPTER 359
   Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 154—Relative to the
          constitutional recess of the Legislature.
           [Filed with Secretary of State August 20, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the 1969 Regular Session of
the Legislature of the State of California shall recess for the
30-day period required by Section 3 of Article IV of the Con-
stitution at the end of the sessions of each house on August 8,
1969, and shall reassemble at 3 o'clock p.m. on September 8,
1969.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 360
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 12—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by amending Section
  9 of Article IX thereof, relating to the Regents of the Uni-
  versity of California.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-
thirds of the members elected to each of the two houses of the
Legislature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of
the State of California that the Constitution of the state be
amended by amending Section 9 of Article I X thereof to read:
   SEC. 9. (a) The University of California shall constitute
a public trust, to be administered by the existing corporation
known as " T h e Regents of the University of California," with
full powers of organization and government, subject only to
such legislative control as may be necessary to insure compli-
ance with the terms of the endowments of the university and
the security of its funds. Said corporation shall be in form a
board composed of eight ex officio members, to wit: the Gov-
ernor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the Assembly,
the Superintendent of Public Instruction, the president of the
State Board of Agriculture, the president of the Mechanics
Institute of San Francisco, the president of the alumni associ-
ation of the university and the acting president of the uni-
versity, and 16 appointive members appointed by the Gov-
ernor ; provided, however, that the present appointive members
shall hold office until the expiration of their present terms.
The term of the appointive members shall be 16 years; the
terms of two appointive members to expire as heretofore on
March 1st of every even-numbered calendar year, and in case
of any vacancy the term of office of the appointee to fill such
                    l96fl
Res. Ch. 361]               REGULAR SESSION                 4063

vacancy, who shall be appointed by the Governor, to be for
the balance of the term as to which such vacancy exists. Said
corporation shall be vested with the legal title and the manage-
ment and disposition of the property of the university and of
property held for its benefit and shall have the power to take
and hold, either by purchase or by donation, or gift, testa-
mentary or otherwise, or in any other manner, without restric-
tion, all real and personal property for the benefit of the
university or incidentally to its conduct. Said corporation
shall also have all the powers necessary or convenient for the
effective administration of its trust, including the power to sue
and to be sued, to use a seal, and to delegate to its committees
or to the faculty of the university, or to others, such authority
or functions as it may deem wise; provided, that all moneys
derived from the sale of public lands donated to this state by
act of Congress approved July 2, 1862 (and the several acts
amendatory thereof), shall be invested as provided by said
acts of Congress and the income from said moneys shall be
inviolably appropriated to the endowment, support and main-
tenance of at least one college of agriculture, where the leading
objects shall be (without excluding other scientific and classi-
cal studies, and including military tactics) to teach such
branches of learning as are related to scientific and practical
agriculture and mechanic arts, in accordance with the require-
ments and conditions of said acts of Congress; and the Legis-
lature shall provide that if, through neglect, misappropriation,
or_any other contingency, any portion of the funds so set apart
shall be diminished or lost, the state shall replace such portion
so lost or misappropriated, so that the principal thereof shall
remain forever undiminished. The university shall be entirely
independent of all political or sectarian influence and kept
free therefrom in the appointment of its regents and in the
administration of its affairs, and no person shall be debarred
admission to any department of the university on account of
sex.
   (b) Meetings of the regents shall be public, with exceptions
and notice requirements as may be provided by statute.
  And he it further resolved, That if the Legislature at the
1970 Regular Session proposes to the people a partial revision
of the Constitution which includes the open meeting require-
ment in Section 9 of Article I X proposed in this measure, then
this measure shall not be proposed to the people and shall not
be placed on the ballot.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 361
Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 79—A resolution to
  propose to the people of the State of California an amend-
  ment to the Constitution of the state, by adding subdivision

    128—1954
4064               STATUTES OP CALIFORNIA                   [Eeg   Qh. 361

  (d) to Section 4 of Article XXIV, by amending subdivision
  (m) of Section 4 of Article XXIV, and repealing Section
  2.1 of Article IX thereof, relating to education.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 19 69.]

    Resolved by the Assembly, the Senate concurring, That the
 Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular Ses-
 sion commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-thirds
 of the members elected to each of the two houses of the Legis-
lature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of the
 State of California that the Constitution of the state be
 amended by adding subdivision (d) to Section 4 of Article
 X X I V and repealing Section 2.1 of Article I X thereof as
 follows:
    First—That Section 2.1 of Article I X be repealed.
    Second—That subdivision (d) be added to Section 4 of
Article XXIV, to read:
    (d) In addition to positions exempted by other provisions
of this section, the State Board of Education, on nomination
 of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, may appoint not
more than two Deputy Superintendents of Public Instruction
and not more than three Associate Superintendents of Public
 Instruction, whose terms of office shall run concurrently with
 the term of the Superintendent of Public Instruction who nom-
inated them, but shall not exceed four years.
   And be it further resolved, That if Assembly Constitutional
 Amendment No. 28 of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legis-
lature is adopted and approved by the electors at the June
 1970 election, subdivision (m) of Section 4 of Article XXIV,
as proposed to be added by Assembly Constitutional Amend-
ment No. 28, is amended to read:
    (m) In addition to positions exempted by other provisions
of this section, the Attorney General may appoint or employ
six deputies or employees, the Public Utilities Commission may
appoint or employ one deputy or employee, the Legislative
Counsel may appoint or employ two deputies or employees, and
the State Board of Education, on nomination of the Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction, may appoint not more than two
Deputy Superintendents of Public Instruction and not more
than four Associate Superintendents of Public Instruction,
whose terms of office shall run concurrently with the term of
the Superintendent of Public Instruction who nominated
them, but shall not exceed four years.
   And be it further resolved, That the provisions of the sec-
ond resolved clause of this measure shall become operative
only if Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 28 is adopted
by the electors at the June 1970 election, in which case sub-
division (d) of Section 4 of Article X X I V as added by the
first resolved clause of this measure is repealed.
Res. Ch. 363]             1969
                                 REGULAR SESSION                    4065

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 362
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 46—Relating to the
                    Norwalk Freeway.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969 ]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That State Highway Route 105
from Route 405 to Route 605 near the City of Norwalk is
hereby officially designated and named the Norwalk Freeway;
and be it further
   Resolved, That State Highway Route 105 from Route 1 near
the City of El Segundo and Los Angeles International Airport
to Route 405 is hereby officially designated and named the E l
Segundo Freeway; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Division of Highways in the Department
of Public Works is hereby requested to erect and maintain ap-
propriate signs on such portions of highways upon their con-
struction as a freeways, showing such official designation; a n d
be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
a copy of this resolution to the Director of Public "Works.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 363
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 149—Relating to direct-
  ing the State Board of Education to develop     administrative
  regulations for the mandatory installation of safety belts in
  all schoolbuses.
                [Filed with Secretary- of State August 21, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature are vitally con-
cerned that the highest safety standards for schoolbus t r a n s -
portation be provided; and
   WHEREAS, The revised design of schoolbus interiors as well
as the installation of seatbelts on schoolbuses would be a
significant improvement in safety standards; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members direct the S t a t e
Board of Education to develop administrative regulations,
after considering the recommendations of the Institute of
Transportation and Traffic Engineering at U.C.L.A. and of
any other schoolbus safety studies now in progress, and to
make appropriate provision concerning the entire area of in-
terior passenger safety, including the installation of seatbelts
in all new schoolbuses purchased after January 1, 1972.
4066                 STATUTES OF CALIFOKNIA                  [ R e g Q n 354

                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 364
       Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 247—Relative to
             commending the South Bay Daily Breeze.
              [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The South Bay Daily Breeze of Torrance, Cali-
fornia, is celebrating its 75th year of publication serving the
southwestern portion of Los Angeles County; and
   WHEREAS, The Daily Breeze was founded in 1894 in Redondo
Beach by S. D. " D o c " Barkley, and, in 1928, after having
passed through many hands, was purchased by the late Colonel
Ira C. Copley, whose son, James S. Copley, still owns the paper
today; and
   WHEREAS, Today's South Bay Daily Breeze serves 17 cities,
covering a market of over three-quarters of a million people,
and employs over 300 full-time persons, plus over 1,000
carrier boys; and
   WHEREAS, Published seven days a week, the South Bay Daily
Breeze has a daily paid circulation of 60,000, plus an additional
200,000 copies distributed weekly under the banner of the
"Breeze Advertisers"; and
   WHEREAS, The highlight of the South Bay Daily Breeze's
Diamond Jubilee year will be the publication, on September 26,
of a full-color, offset-printed "Diamond Jubilee Edition"; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members commend the
South Bay Daily Breeze for 75 years of publication; and be
it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
suitably prepared copy of this resolution to Mr. Robert L.
 Curry, publisher of the South Bay Daily Breeze.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 365
       Assembly Joint Resolution No. 16—Relative to offshore
                    oil development operations.
              [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The great scenic beauty of the shoreline along the
California coast is one of the state's magnificent heritages; and
  WHEREAS, An oil spillage of mammoth proportions has oc-
curred at an offshore oil drilling operation in the Santa Bar-
bara Channel; and
  WHEREAS, This massive oil leakage has caused immeasurable
damage and destruction to the California coast and brought
death to countless fish and coastal wildlife; and
                     1969
Bes. Ch. 365]               REGULAR SESSIOH                  4067

   "WHEREAS, The Santa Barbara Channel is known to be an
area of geological fracturing and there is a danger that further
oil leakage disasters may occur; and
   WHEREAS, Such drilling operations are located on federal
outercontinental shelflands and operate under lease from the
United States Department of the Interior and under federal
regulations; and
   WHEREAS, In view of the oil pollution now wreaking such
terrible damage to our coast, it is evident that the public in-
terest would be well served through creation of an insurance
fund for the protection and preservation of the California
shoreline; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to review and strengthen federal regulations
pertaining to oil drilling operations in areas such as the Santa
Barbara Channel under federal control, taking into account
the geological fracturing and faulting which exist in such
areas; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to permit authorized representatives of the
State of California to make onsite inspection of oil drilling
facilities and practices at oil development operations located on
federal outercontinental shelflands off the California coast and
to permit state supervision of such operations; and be it fur-
ther
   Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to halt all oil drilling operations in the Santa
Barbara Channel under federal control until a well-by-well
inspection can be made; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to establish an insurance fund from revenue
produced through offshore oil development and production, to
be used for removal of pollution, contamination, or debris re-
sulting from such development and operations which affect the
California shoreline and for the compensation of landowners,
including public agencies, for private or public property dam-
age ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Secretary of the Interior, to the
 Speaker of the House of ^Representatives, and to each Senator
and Eepresentative from California in the Congress of the
United States.
4068               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ReS. Ch. 366

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 366
         Assembly Joint Resolution No. 60—Relative
                  to vocational education.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature of the State of
 California are of the opinion that the amendments to the Voca-
tional Education Act of 1963 contained in Public Law 90-576
manifest an intent on the part of the United States Congress
to expand -vocational education opportunities in all 50 states;
and
   WHEKBAS, This expansion will prove to be impossible to at-
tain without increased financial support for these worthwhile
programs; and
   "WHEREAS, The momentum that has been generated for voca-
tional education in recent years will be lost unless more funds
are available; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States
to provide increased funds for vocational education programs
maintained pursuant to the Vocational Education Act of 1963;
as amended, and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Chairman of the Subcommittee
on Labor, Health, Education, and Welfare, Related Agencies
of the Committee on Appropriations of the United States
Senate, and to the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Labor,
Health, Education, and Welfare of the Committee on Appro-
priations of the United States House of Representatives.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 367
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 153—Relative to the
        Fairs Allocation and Classification Committee.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That in addition to any money
heretofore made available to it, the sum of fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000) or so much thereof as may be necessary, is
hereby made available from the Contingent Funds of the
Assembly and Senate for the expenses of the Fairs Allocation
and Classification Committee and its members and for any
charges, expenses or claims it may incur, to be paid from the
said fund and disbursed, after certification by the chairman
of the committee, upon warrants drawn by the State Controller
upon the State Treasurer.
                          1969
Ees. Ch. 368]                    REGULAR SESSION                   4069

                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 368
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 222—Relative to instruc-
                     tional television.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

   "WHEEEAS, Instructional television in school districts offers
a variety of programs for classroom instruction in grades kin-
 dergarten through 12; and
   WHEREAS, Instructional television is financed by local school
districts, federal appropriations, state appropriations and the
county school service funds; and
   WHEREAS, The costs of instructional television, reported by
the Department of Education, for 1967-68 were $2,781,104;
and
   WHEREAS, NO statewide audit of these costs has been made ;
and
   WHEREAS, I t is reported that no study has been made to
evaluate the effectiveness of instructional television programs;
and
   WHEREAS, I t is reported that low-wealth school districts
cannot afford instructional television programs; and
   WHEREAS, It is reported that more financial assistance will
be needed; and
   WHEREAS, There is no data available to correlate the quality
and effectiveness of instructional television programs; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request that an
audit be performed of the reported costs of instructional tele-
vision programs in school districts and a determination of the
cost effectiveness of these programs be made by the Office of
the Auditor General, the Joint Legislative Audit Committee,
the Department of Education, and such other departments,
agencies or committees deemed advisable by the Auditor Gen-
eral, to develop accurate and uniform cost reporting by all
affected school districts; and be it further
   Resolved, That such a study shall include comparable cost
data of programs offered in other states in the United States;
an analysis of the costs of contracts between school districts
and television stations; an analysis of federal involvement in
instructional television programs; an analysis of administra-
tive costs and the internal controls over such administrative
costs; and a determination of whether the reimbursements to
school districts should be increased or decreased; and be it
further
   Resolved, That a report be transmitted by the Auditor Gen-
eral and the Joint Legislative Audit Committee to the State
Legislature by the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular
Session; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Auditor General,
4070               STATUTES OF CALIFOBNIA                 [ R e s . (ft. 359

               EBSOLUTION CHAPTER 369
Senate Constitutional Amendment No. 29—A resolution to pro-
  pose to the people of the State of California an amendment
  to the Constitution of the state, by amending Section l^a
  and Section l^b of Article XIII thereof, relating to vet-
  erans' exemptions.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 21,1969.]

   Resolved by the Senate, the Assembly concurring, That the
Legislature of the State of California at its 1969 Regular
Session commencing on the sixth day of January, 1969, two-
thirds of the members elected to each of the two houses of the
Legislature voting therefor, hereby proposes to the people of
the State of California that the Constitution of the state be
amended as follows:
   First—That Section l j a of Article X I I I be amended to
read:
   SEC. l | a . The Legislature may exempt from taxation, in
whole or in part, the property, constituting a home, of (a)
every resident of this state who, by reason of his military or
naval service, is qualified for the exemption provided in Sec-
tion 11 of this article, without regard to any limitation con-
tained therein on the value of property owned by such person
or his wife, and who, by reason of a permanent and total
service-connected disability incurred in such military or naval
service due to the loss, or loss of use, as the result of amputa-
tion, ankylosis, progressive muscular dystrophies, or paralysis,
of both lower extremities, such as to preclude locomotion with-
out the aid of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair, has re-
ceived assistance from the Government of the United States
in the acquisition of such property, and; (b) the home of the
widow of every such person if the home was acquired as de-
scribed in subdivision ( a ) ; except that such exemption shall
not extend to more than one home nor exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000) for any person, for any person and his
spouse, or for his widow. This exemption shall be in lieu of the
exemption provided in Section 1 | of this article.
   Where such totally disabled person, such person and his
spouse, or his widow, sells or otherwise disposes of such prop-
erty and thereafter acquires, with or without the assistance of
the Government of the United States, any other property
which such totally disabled person, such person and his spouse,
or his widow, occupies habitually as a home, the exemption al-
lowed pursuant to the first paragraph of this section shall be
allowed to such other property.
   This section shall not apply to a widow upon her remar-
riage.
   Second—That Section l^b of Article X I I I be amended to
read;
                         1969
Res. Ch. 370]                   REGULAR SESSION                    4071
   SEC. l i b . The Legislature may exempt from taxation, in
whole or in part, the property, constituting a home, of every
resident of this state who, by reason of his military or naval
service, is qualified for the exemption provided in subdivision
 (a) of Section 1^ of this article, without regard to any limita-
tion contained therein on the value of property owned by
such person or his spouse, and who, by reason of a permanent
and total service-connected disability incurred in such military
or naval service is blind in both eyes with visual acuity of
5/200 or less; except that such exemption shall not extend to
more than one home nor exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000)
for any person or for any person and his spouse. This ex-
emption shall be in lieu of the exemption provided in subdi-
vision (a) of Section 1J of this article.
   Where such blind person sells or otherwise disposes of such
property and thereafter acquires, with or without the assist-
ance of the government of the United States, any other prop-
erty which such totally disabled person occupies habitually as
a home, the exemption allowed pursuant to the first paragraph
of this section shall be allowed to such other property.
   The exemption provided by this section shall apply to the
home of such a person which is owned by a corporation of
which he is a shareholder, the rights of shareholding in which
entitle him to possession of a home owned by the corporation.
   This section shall apply to such property for the 1965-1966
fiscal year in the manner provided by law.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 370
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 133—Relative to the Joint
          Legislative Committee on Public Domain.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

   "WHEEEAS, It has been found by the Joint Legislative Com-
mittee on Public Domain that there is insufficient information
about state lands administered as proprietary or sovereign
lands; and
   WHEREAS, It is in the interest of all citizens of the state
and the California State Legislature to be fully apprised of
the extent, use and projected use of all state lands; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature can foresee that hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars in revenues can be saved or earned through
the proper administration or utilization of state lands and
the mineral rights therein; and
   WHEREAS, The Joint Legislative Committee on Public Do-
main and its predecessor, the Joint Legislative Committee on
Tidelands, have prepared a comprehensive inventory study of
all tidelands under trust in California, a major study of geo-
thermal energy in California and other public domain studies;
and
4072              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [ R e S i Ch. 370

   WHEREAS, The committee has an extensive file of informa-
tion on all state-owned or administered lands; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, as follows:
   1. The Joint Legislative Committee on Public Domain is
hereby continued in existence.
   2. The committee is hereby authorized and directed to con-
tinue to ascertain, study, and analyze all facts relating to
the best use of the revenues which now or in the future ac-
crue from the development of the tide and submerged lands
held in trust, to meet the financial needs of the State of Cali-
fornia and the trust provisions as outlined in the tideland
grants, including but not limited to the operation, effect, ad-
ministration, enforcement and needed revision of any and all
laws in any way bearing upon or relating thereto, and to
report thereon to the Legislature, including in the reports its
recommendations for appropriate legislation.
   The committee's study shall take into account, among other
things, the requirement set forth in grants of tide and sub-
merged lands that such lands shall be used only for a specific
purpose such as the establishment, improvement and conduct
of a harbor, airport or other facilities for the promotion and
accommodation of commerce and navigation; that the granted
lands shall be improved by the grantee without expense to the
State of California and that facilities developed thereon re-
main open to the public for all purposes of commerce and
navigation; the financial requirements of the grantee to meet
its obligation to improve said lands; that the State of Cali-
fornia has the right to use the granted lands without charge
for certain purposes; protection of the natural beauty of the
area and the public health and safety; the use of proceeds
for the wise and adequate development, maintenance and op-
eration of the trust lands, and the provision of adequate fi-
nancial reserves and safeguards to cover any unforeseen prob-
lems that might arise in connection with the trust development
in the future.
   3. The committee is further authorized and directed to re-
view public land management policies of other states and
propose to the Legislature model methods of public land man-
agement.
   4. The committee shall continue to consist of five Members
of the Senate appointed by the Committee on Rules thereof,
and five Members of the Assembly appointed by the Speaker
thereof. Vacancies occurring in the membership of the com-
mittee shall be filled by the appointing power.
   5. The committee and its members shall have and exercise
all of the rights, duties and powers conferred upon investi-
gating committees and their members by the provisions of the
Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly as they are adopted
and amended from time to time at this session, which pro-
                         1969
Res. Ch. 3711                   REGULAR SESSION                    4073
visions are incorporated herein and made applicable to this
committee and its members.
    6. The committee and its members are authorized to study
and inventory lands and rights therein owned or administered
by the state, determine the uses to which these lands and
rights are currently being put, prepare an analysis of the
projected uses of such lands, and devise a system of automatic
inventory and reporting of the uses of state lands.
    7. In addition to the foregoing, the committee and its mem-
bers shall study the potential state benefit from mineral re-
sources on state-owned lands and the extent to which such
lands may be disposed of and returned to the tax rolls.
    8. The committee has the following additional powers and
duties:
    (a) To select a chairman and a vice chairman from its
membership; provided, that the chairmanship shall be alter-
nated annually between the Senate and Assembly member-
ship.
    (b) To contract with such other agencies, public or private,
as it deems necessary for the rendition and affording of such
services, facilities, studies and reports to the committee as will
best assist it to carry out the purposes for which it is created.
    (c) To cooperate with and secure the cooperation of county,
city, city and county, and other local law enforcement agen-
cies in investigating any matter within the scope of this resolu-
tion and to direct the sheriff of any county to serve subpoenas,
 orders and other process issued by the committee.
     (d) To report its findings and recommendations to the Leg-
islature not later than June 30, 1970.
     (e) To do any and all other things necessary or convenient
 to enable it fully and adequately to exercise its powers, per-
 form its duties, and accomplish the objects and purposes of this
 resolution.
    9. I n addition to any money heretofore made available to
 it, the sum of twenty-seven thousand five hundred dollars
  ($27,500), or so much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby
 made available from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly
 and Senate for the expenses of the committee and its members
 and for any charges, expenses or claims it may incur under
 this resolution, to be paid from the said fund and disbursed,
 after certification by the chairman of the committee, upon
 warrants drawn by the State Controller upon the State Treas-
 urer.

                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 371
       IScnate Concurrent Resolution No. 166—Relative to
                 the death of Hugh P. Donnelly.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]
4074              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA          [EeS. Ch. 371

   WHEREAS, I t was with the most sincere and profound sorrow
that the Members of the Legislature of the State of California
learned of the death of their good friend and distinguished
former colleague, Hugh P. Donnelly; and
   WHEREAS, A man of unique integrity and outstanding abil-
ity, Hugh Donnelly was first elected to the Assembly in 1934
and quickly became one of the key powers in the California
Legislature; and
   WHEREAS, A popular legislator, he won the respect and
esteem of his colleagues and in 1939 was elected as the
Speaker pro Tempore of the Assembly; and
   WHEREAS, The faith and devotion which his constituents
had for him was demonstrated by his election to the State
Senate in 1942 and his continuous reelection to the Senate
until his retirement; and
   WHEREAS, During his many years as a lawmaker, he au-
thored many pieces of important legislation, especially in the
areas of education and agriculture, and was responsible for
legislation which banned the sale of dangerously inflammable
or explosive wearing apparel, the first bill of its kind in the
United States; and
   WHEREAS, He also attained prominence for his work in
putting through a measure making it compulsory to have avail-
able proper medical supplies when children in public or pri-
vate schools are taken on field trips into snake-infested terri-
tory; and
   WHEREAS, He retired from the Senate in 1966, climaxing a
 distinguished political career marked by major achievements
and historic battles; and
   WHEREAS, Throughout his long and outstanding career he
was a diligent and conscientious public servant, as well as a
 beloved person to his family and many friends; now, therefore,
be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members hereby pay
tribute to the memory of their former colleague, Hugh P.
Donnelly, and extend their sincere and heartfelt condolences to
the members of his family; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suit-
ably prepared copies of this resolution to Hugh Donnelly's
widow, Thelma, to his son, Hugh, Jr., and to his daughter,
Eosemary Bristow; to his grandchildren, Richard Bristow,
John Bristow, Loretta Bristow, Eileen McLaren, Sheila Don-
nelly, and Frank Donnelly; to his sister, Sister Mary Geo-
vanni, and to his brother, Vincent J. Donnelly.
                         1969
Res. Ch. 373]                   REGULAR SESSION                    4075

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 372
          Senate Joint Resolution No. 15—Relative to
                federal flood control assistance.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Many counties and communities in the State of
California have been subjected to heavy and continuous rain-
fall and disastrous flooding; and
   WHEREAS, Such rainfall and flooding have caused great
damage to both public and private property throughout the
state and have resulted in substantial monetary losses; and
   WHEREAS, Conditions resulting from such rainfall and flood-
ing continue to cause extreme peril to the safety of both per-
sons and property throughout the state; and
   WHEREAS, The Governor of the State of California has pro-
claimed a state of disaster in many areas of the state; and
   WHEREAS, Legislation which would provide for increases in
the amount of federal assistance available to disaster areas
under already existing programs has been introduced in the
Congress of the United States; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States
to enact pending legislation dealing with this problem; and be
it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 373
          Senate Joint Resolution No. 29—Relative to
                Point Reyes National Seashore.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, A total of 64,415 acres of land is in the process
of acquisition by the federal government pursuant to the act
of Congress approved September 13, 1962 (72 Stats. 538), as
amended in 1966, establishing the Point Reyes National Sea-
shore in California; and
  WHEREAS, The State of California has provided 11,415
acres of tidelands, the federal government has additionally ac-
quired 23,845 acres, and 29,155 acres remain to be acquired by
purchase; and
  WHEREAS, The 1966 amendment to the act provided an in-
crease in the amount authorized to be expended for the pur-
4071)             STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [|Jes_ Qfa 373

chase of land for the project from $14,000,000 to $19,135,000;
and
    WHEREAS, A S is the case with respect to lands throughout
California, the value of lands within the area of the Point
Eeyes National Seashore has risen substantially since 1962
and. 1966 and an increase in the presently authorized expendi-
ture of funds is necessary in order to acquire the remaining
29,355 acres; and
    WHEREAS, The National Park Service, in the course of
recent hearings on HR 3786 in the National Parks and Recrea-
tion Subcommittee of the House Committee on Interior and
Insular Affairs, indicated an intention to sell approximately
9,000 acres of acquired National Seashore property to private
owners for development; and
    WHEBEAS, The people of the State of California are opposed
to the use of any National Seashore property for commercial
or residential development which would reduce Point Reyes
National Seashore property and alter the basic concept of the
present plan; and
    WHEREAS, After due and careful consideration of the pub-
 lic interest, Senators Alan Cranston and George Murphy and
 Congressmen Don Clausen and William Mailliard, representing
 the First and Sixth Congressional Districts of California, re-
 spectively, have introduced bills (S. 1530 and H.R. 3786)
 before the 91st Congress, supported by a majority of California
 Congressmen, to further amend the act to authorize an increase
 in the expenditure of funds from $19,135,000 to $57,500,000
 for the acquisition of Point Reyes National Seashore lands;
 now, therefore, be it
    Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
 fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
 respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
 the United States to move swiftly to support and enact S. 1530
 and H.R. 3786 of the 91st Congress into law and thus act in
 the interest of the people of California and of the United
 States to complete the Point Reyes National Seashore in gen-
 eral, and particularly, to secure the immediate purchase of
 the property to insure that the National Seashore will not be
 split by the pending subdivision; and be it further
    Resolved, That the National Park Service is hereby re-
 quested to carefully reevaluate its budgetary requirements for
 completion of the National Seashore in the most conservative
  manner so that there is no question but that funds sufficient
  to complete the National Seashore will be authorized; and
 be it further
     Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
  of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
  United States, to the Secretary of the Interior, to the Director
  of the National Park Service, to the Speaker of the House of
  Representatives, and to each Senator and Representative from
  California in the Congress of the United States.
                          1969
Ees. Ch. 374]                    REGULAR SESSION                   4077
                   EESOLUTION C H A P T E E 374
   Senate Joint Resolution No. 32—Relative to federal policy
               in regard to Indians in California.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 21, 1969.]

    "WHEREAS, The Indians of California are virtually excluded
 from participation in various federal programs and services
 that are available to other Indians of the United States; and
    WHEREAS, The Legislature of the State of California in 1968
 adopted Senate Joint Eesolution No. 3 requesting full partici-
 pation of California Indians in all federal programs and serv-
 ices available to Indians of the United States; and
    "WHEREAS, The Congress of the United States in 1953
 adopted House Concurrent Eesolution No. 108, which became
 the basis for termination legislation and which expressed a
 sense of Congress that was imposed upon the Indian people;
 and
   "WHEREAS, Some terminated Indian groups and other Cali-
fornia Indians wish to reestablish their trust relationship with
the federal government; and
   "WHEREAS, The termination policy of House Concurrent Ees-
olution No. 108 has since been abandoned by Congress in favor
of the Indian consent policy expressed in revisions to Public
Law 280 and Public Law 85-671; and
   WHEREAS, House Concurrent Eesolution No. 108 is still in-
terpreted as the guiding policy by some federal agencies and
officers in regard to services and programs for California
Indians; and
   WHEREAS, Many California tribal groups and Indian organ-
izations regard various federal programs and services as a val-
uable resource that should be available to them; and
   WHEREAS, The various federal agencies administering In-
dian programs for Indians of California should be able to
operate their programs in a flexible manner in order to provide
a sustained, positive and dynamic Indian policy with the neces-
sary constructive programs and services needed by California
Indians; and
   WHEREAS, House Concurrent Eesolution No. 245 which has
been introduced in the Congress of the United States states a
new national Indian policy that more clearly expresses the
will of the California Indian people; and
   WHEREAS, The sense of House Concurrent Eesolution No.
245 should be applicable to the Indians of California espe-
cially since California is emerging as the state with the largest
Indian population; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to establish a policy that insures that Cali-
fornia Indians are included to the fullest extent in various
4078                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [EeS. Cll. 375

federal programs and services that are available to other
Indians of the United States; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Secretary of the Interior, to the Com-
missioner of Indian Affairs, to the Secretary of Health, Edu-
cation, and "Welfare, to the Director of the Division of Indian
Health of the United States Public Health Service, to each
member of the National Council on Indian Opportunity, to the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, to each Senator and
Representative from California in the Congress of the United
States, and to the chairmen of the committees of the United
States Congress dealing with the subject of this resolution.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 375
Senate    Joint Resolution No. 34—Relative to the Richard
         Milhous Nixon Birthplace National Historic Site.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 22, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, All the Presidents of the United States of
America have had a profound effect upon the history of this
nation; and
   WHEREAS, It has been the policy of the federal government
of the United States to preserve and restore birthplaces of its
Presidents; and
   WHEREAS, The preservation and restoration of the birth-
place of Richard Milhous Nixon is in the national public in-
terest; and
   WHEREAS, The Nixon birthplace has been adequately main-
tained and is now available for acquisition and development
by the federal government; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to enact legislation to acquire, restore, and
develop the birthplace of President Richard Milhous Nixon
and to designate that site as the Richard Milhous Nixon Birth-
place National Historic Site; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the President and Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
and to each Senator and Representative from California in the
Congress of the United States.
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 376]                   REGULAR SESSION                   4079

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 376
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 31—Relative
                      to Indian studies.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 25,1969.]

   WHEREAS, California elementary and secondary schools are
required by law to offer courses of study dealing with the
American Indian heritage; and
   WHEREAS, The first 20,000 years of American history are
Indian history; and
   WHEREAS, The Americas are today populated by thirty
million Indians and a total of perhaps one hundred million
persons of Indian descent; and
   WHEREAS, California is today the home of at least one out
of every six United States tribal Indians as well as the home
of two million persons of Mexican Indian descent; and
   WHEREAS, Indian people possess a rich legacy of art, music,
literature, inventions, religion, philosophy, crafts, and folk
customs; and
   WHEREAS, American Indians today stand in great need of
special educational programs, possessing as they do the lowest
income, highest unemployment, highest death rate, highest
suicide rate, lowest formal educational achievement rate, and
lowest college enrollment rate of any ethnic group in the
United States; and
   WHEREAS, No college or university in the State of Cali-
fornia offers or has ever offered regular courses in American
Indian History, American Indian Art, American Indian E d u -
cation, American Indian Music, American Indian languages
 (north of Mexico), or in any other Indian subject other t h a n
in specialized anthropology courses; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Regents of the University
of California are urged t o : (1) designate one campus in
northern California and one campus in southern California
as centers for the development of a complete program of in-
struction and research relative to American Indian studies,
 (2) develop a College of American Indian Studies to be de-
veloped as expeditiously as possible on at least one of the
above, and, (3) encourage the development of Indian-related
courses designed especially to meet the special needs of I n d i a n
regular and adult students and of non-Indian teacher candi-
dates at the above campuses and elsewhere; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Trustees of the California State Colleges
 are urged to designate one campus in northern California a n d
one campus in southern California as centers for the develop-
ment of courses of instruction relating to American Indians,;
and be it further
4080               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ReS. Ch. 377

   Resolved, That the Board of Governors of the California
Community Colleges are urged to authorize courses relating to
American Indians; and be it further
   Resolved, That the members of governing boards of districts
maintaining junior colleges are encouraged to authorize courses
relating to American Indians; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Coordinating Council for Higher Educa-
tion is urged to make every effort to facilitate the aforemen-
tioned American Indian higher education programs; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the University of California, the California
state colleges, the California junior colleges, and the Coordi-
nating Council for Higher Education, are encouraged to work
closely with American Indian organizations in the development
of any special American Indian programs; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit copies
of this resolution to the Regents of the University of California,
the Trustees of the California State Colleges, trustees of each
junior college district, the Coordinating Council for Higher
Education, and the Higher Education Committee of the Cali-
fornia Indian Education Association.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 377
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 126—Relative to a study
  and proposed treatment program for youthful drug abusers.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Department of the Youth
Authority is hereby requested to submit to the 1970 Regular
Session of the Legislature a comprehensive report, including
the results of "Project 9 9 , " which details the efforts of the
department with regard to the treatment of youthful drug
abusers and delineates the success or failure of the department
programs in rehabilitation; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Director of the Department of the
Youth Authority.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 378
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 128—Relating
             to a Joint Committee on Seismic Safety.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   WHEEFJAS, The State of California has a positive interest in
minimizing the disastrous effects of major earthquakes particu-
larly in the heavily populated areas of the state such as the
                    1969
Res. Ch. 378]              REGULAR SESSION                 4081

San Francisco Bay and the Los Angeles metropolitan areas;
and
   WHEREAS, An earthquake of the magnitude of the 1906 San
Francisco catastrophe should it occur today could result in
untold loss of life and inestimable property damage due to the
rapid growth of urban areas in the past 60 years; and
   WHEREAS, The Legislature finds that a considerable reduc-
tion in catastrophic damage due to earthquake could possibly
be achieved if a detailed study is undertaken to determine the
nature of California seismic and related hazards, the effect of
seismic rupture upon existing metropolitan structures, utility
services, transportation, communications, and the general wel-
fare, and in what manner precautions can be taken to mini-
mize the damage, loss of life, and disruption to the economy
should a major earthquake occur; and
   WHEREAS, The San Francisco Bay area is a most logical
place for such a study to begin since the area contains almost
all the types of earthquake-related hazards and hazard-increas-
ing circumstances to be found in the state: It is traversed by
two major active faults; it has filled land and water-saturated
subsoils; its topography includes inhabited hillsides and slopes
susceptible to slides; it has many water storage dams and reser-
voirs ; it is heavily populated with attendant urban problems;
it has both old and new structures of widely varying design;
and it is a nine-county area large enough to permit a thorough
and comprehensive study, the findings of which will be of prac-
tical value throughout the state; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, As follows:
   1. The Joint Committee on Seismic Safety is created and
authorized to study with particularity the earthquake related
problems confronting the San Francisco Bay area and so much
other of the state as it should appear advisable; the committee
is further directed to develop seismic safety plans and policies
and recommend to the Legislature any needed legislation to
minimize the catastrophic effects upon the people, property,
and the operation of our economy should a major earthquake
strike any portion of the State of California.
   2. The Joint Committee on Seismic Safety shall consist of
four members of the Senate appointed by the Committee on
Rules which shall also appoint the chairman, plus four mem-
bers of the Assembly appointed by the Speaker of the Assem-
bly who shall also appoint the vice chairman.
   3. The Joint Committee shall be advised by the advisory
groups set forth below:
   A. Advisory Group on Engineering Considerations and
Earthquake Sciences.
   This group shall review available scientific and engineering
knowledge relative to the reduction of the risks of damage due
to earthquake and related geologic hazards. It shall make
recommendations to the committee based upon its findings.
4082              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [Res. Ch. 378

Its judgment in the fields of engineering and earthquake sci-
ences shall guide all other advisory groups. I t shall review
the progress reports of all other advisory groups and may
recommend such changes, elaborations, or new directions as
may appear desirable. It shall provide, insofar as feasible,
technical information and opinions on submitted questions to
other advisory groups.
   The composition of the Advisory Group on Engineering
Considerations and Earthquake Sciences shall include:
    (a) One representative of the Division of Mines and Ge-
ology appointed by the Secretary of the Resources Agency.
    (b) One representative of the Division of Safety of Dams
appointed by the Secretary of the Resources Agency.
    (c) One representative of the Office of Architecture and
Construction appointed by the State Architect.
    (d) Seven persons with experience and acknowledged repu-
tations in the relevant professional fields shall be appointed
by the committee as follows:
    (i) One representative after consultation with the officers of
the San Francisco Section of the American Society of Civil
Engineers.
    (ii) One representative after consultation with the officers
of the Structural Engineers Association of Northern Cali-
fornia.
    (iii) One representative after consultation with the officers
of the San Francisco Chapter, Association of Engineering Ge-
ologists.
    (iv) One representative after consultation with the officers
of the California Council of the American Institute of Archi-
tects.
    (v) Three representatives after consultation with the officers
of the Earthquake Engineering Research Institute.
    (e) Two persons representing appropriate academic disci-
plines appointed by the committee after consultation with the
Chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley, and the
President of Stanford University.
    (f) Two members appointed from the public at large at the
discretion of the committee.
   B. Advisory Group on Disaster Preparedness.
   This group shall be responsible for reviewing and evaluating
the adequacy of existing disaster plans insofar as they relate
to the probable consequences of disastrous earthquakes. The
group should give special emphasis to the development of
plans to marshal human, physical, and economic resources nec-
essary to minimize human and material losses flowing from
earthquake disaster, and to facilitate restoration of the normal
life of the region as expeditiously as possible. The group
should recommend preearthquake measures that will help to
minimize human and material losses flowing from earthquake
disaster.
                    1969
Ees. Ch. 3781              REGULAR SESSION                  4083
   The composition of the Advisory Group on Disaster Pre-
paredness shall include:
    (a) One representative of the U.S. Office of Emergency Pre-
paredness appointed by the Director of the Office of Emer-
gency Preparedness.
   (b) One representative appointed by the Director of the
Disaster Office of the Governor's Council.
    (c) Seven persons appointed by the committee with knowl-
edge in fields relevant to disaster preparedness, including not
less than one physician, one representative of a public utility,
one civil engineer, one architect, and one representative of the
American Red Cross.
   (d) Five representatives of local government, appointed by
the committee after consultation with the Association of Bay
Area Governments. Two of these representatives shall be build-
ing inspectors of cities within the San Francisco Bay area
and each building inspector shall hold a valid California civil
engineer's license.
   (e) Three members appointed from the public at large or
from private organizations at the discretion of the committee.
   C. Advisory Group on Postearthquake Eecovery and Rede-
velopment.
   This group shall be responsible for recommending a series of
general contingency plans to guide the long-term work of re-
covery, reconstruction, relocation where desirable, and redevel-
opment. The plans shall include variable courses of action
based upon the several parameters of earthquake location,
duration, intensity and damage.
   The composition of the Advisory Group on Postearthquake
Recovery and Redevelopment shall include:
    (a) Four persons appointed by the committee from the
fields of insurance, banking and finance, law, and urban re-
newal.
    (b) Four persons with experience and acknowledged repu-
tations in relevant professional fields appointed by the com-
mittee as follows:
    (i) One representative after consultation with the officers of
the California Chapter of the American Institute of Planners.
    (ii) One representative after consultation with the officers
 of the California Council of the American Institute of Archi-
 tects.
    (iii) One representative after consultation with the officers
 of the San Francisco Section of the American Society of Civil
 Engineers.
    (c) One representative of residents living in areas having
 substantial proportions of older, low-income housing after
 consultation with representatives of low-income groups in San
 Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose.
     (d) Three representatives of local government after consul-
 tation with the Association of Bay Area Governments.
4084               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA            [ReS. Ch. 378

    (e) One representative of the Department of Housing and
 Community Development appointed by the director.
    (f) Two representatives of the public at large appointed at
 the discretion of the committee.
    D. Advisory Group on Land Use Planning.
    This group shall determine the limitations that should be
 placed upon the use of land subject to seismic hazard for
 appropriate inclusion in the land use plans of state, regional,
 and local governments.
    The composition of the Advisory Group on Land Use Plan-
 ning shall include:
    (a) Three representatives of local government, appointed by
 the committee after consultation with the Association of Bay
 Area Governments.
    (b) Five persons with experience and acknowledged repu-
 tations in relevant professional fields appointed by the com-
 mittee as follows:
    (i) Two representatives after consultation with the officers
 of the California Chapter of the American Institute of
 Planners.
    (ii) One representative of the San Francisco Section of the
 American Society of Civil Engineers.
    (iii) One representative of the California Council of the
 American Institute of Architects.
    (iv) One representative of the San Francisco Chapter of
 the Association of Engineering Geologists.
    (c) One representative of the State Office of Planning ap-
 pointed by the State Planning Officer.
    (d) Two representatives of the academic community ap-
 pointed by the commission after consultation with the Chan-
 cellor of the University of California, Berkeley, and the
 President of Stanford University.
    (e) Two representatives of the public at large appointed at
the discretion of the committee.
   E. Advisory Group on Governmental Organization and
Performance.
   This group shall study local government organization so as
to determine how the plans formulated by the other advisory
groups to reduce the risk of loss due to earthquake disaster
may best be carried into effect. It shall recommend modifica-
tions in existing government organization so that local govern-
ment jurisdiction is sufficient to enable it to exercise the requi-
site authority to make the emergency measures effective. I t
shall recommend new governmental institutions should they
appear essential.
   The composition of the Advisory Group on Governmental
Organization and Performance shall include:
   (a) Two representatives of local government appointed by
the committee after consultation with the Association of Bay
Area Governments.
                     1969
Res. Ch. 378]               REGULAR SESSION                  4085

   (b) Two persons appointed by the committee after consul-
tation with the chairman of the Joint Committee on Bay Area
Regional Organization.
   (c) One person appointed by the committee after consulta-
tion with the chairman of the Bay Conservation and Develop-
ment Commission.
   (d) Three persons appointed by the committee who have
been active in governmental studies in the San Francisco Bay
area.
   (e) Three representatives of the public appointed by the
committee.
   (f) Two representatives of the academic community ap-
pointed by the committee after consultation with the Chan-
cellor of the University of California, Berkeley, and the Presi-
dent of Stanford University.
   (g) Two representatives from the public at large appointed
at the discretion of the committee.
   4. The Joint Committee on Seismic Safety and its members
shall have and exercise all of the rights, duties and powers con-
ferred upon investigating committees and their members by
the provisions of the Joint Rules of the Senate and the Assem-
bly as they are adopted and amended from time to time, which
provisions are incorporated herein and made applicable to this
committee and its members.
   5. The Joint Committee shall have the following additional
powers:
   (a) To meet at such times and places as it may deem proper.
   (b) To employ such professional, secretarial and clerical
staff, together with such special assistants and consultants as
may be necessary.
   (c) To contract with such other agencies, public or private,
as it deems necessary, for the rendition of such services, facili-
ties, studies and reports to the joint committee as will best
assist it to carry out its duties and responsibilities.
   (d) To cooperate with and to secure the cooperation of
county, city, city and county, regional, multicounty and other
local agencies in investigating any matter within the scope of
its duties and responsibilities.
    (e) To cooperate with any federal, state or local agency,
public and private, which is engaged in making studies of
earthquake hazard.
    (f) To accept funds from federal, state, and local agencies,
 and to receive contributions from private sources.
    (g) To create additional advisory groups and to do any and
all other things necessary or convenient to enable it fully and
adequately to perform its duties and to exercise the powers
expressly granted it.
   6. The Joint Committee on Seismic Safety shall file a prog-
ress report with the Legislature not later than June 30, 1970,
and shall file a final report with the Legislature not later
than June 30, 1974. The final report shall contain:
4086               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                 [ R e s . Qh. 379

   (a) The results of the detailed study made by the com-
mittee.
   (b) A plan for continuous revision of the study as new
information is obtained.
   (c) A plan to minimize the probable loss to life, property,
and minimize the disruption of the local economy should an
earthquake disaster occur.
   (d) A plan for appropriate and effective response to the
immediate problems arising after an earthquake disaster.
   (e) Such other information and recommendations as the
committee deems desirable.
  7. The sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000) or so much
thereof as may be necessary is hereby made available from the
Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for the ex-
penses of the committee and its members and for any charges,
expenses or claims it may incur under this resolution, to be
paid from the said fund and disbursed, after certification by
the chairman of the committee, upon warrants drawn by the
State Controller upon the State Treasurer.


               EBSOLUTION CHAPTER 379
        Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 129—Relative to
              drug offenders and narcotic addicts.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25,1969.]

   WHEKEAS, Community mental health services have been in-
volved for a number of years in the voluntary treatment of
drug abuse; and
   WHEREAS, Legislation introduced in the 1969 Regular Ses-
sion of the Legislature would provide for the involuntary
treatment of drug users under procedures of the Short-Doyle
Act; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the State Department of Men-
tal Hygiene present a report to the 1970 Regular Session of
the Legislature which would provide an evaluation of the
kinds and types of services as well as effectiveness of those
services provided by community mental health programs in
regard to the treatment of drug abuse; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the State Department of Mental Hygiene.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 380
       Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 140—Relative to
                      United Nations Day.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25,1969.]
                         1969
Res. Ch. 381]                   REGULAR SESSION                   4087
   WHEREAS, Twenty-four years ago, on October 24, 1945, the
United Nations Charter came into existence; and
   WHEREAS, The General Assembly of the United Nations
designated October 24th for the annual observance of United
Nations Day, to be devoted by all member nations to making
known to the people of the world the aims and achievements
of the United Nations and to gaining their support for the
work of the United Nations; and
   WHEREAS, The President of the United States will issue a
proclamation declaring October 24, 1969, as United Nations
Day in the United States; and
   WHEREAS, The citizens of the State of California are fully
aware that our survival requires worldwide cooperation and
that this country's highest hopes are in harmony with the
hopes and aspirations of peoples everywhere; and
   WHEREAS, The United Nations Organization was founded
upon the hope that it would contribute to world peace, out of
respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determina-
tion of people, to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights,
and to raise the standard of living for all men; and
   WHEREAS, Effective public support for the United Nations
depends upon a sober appraisal of its accomplishments; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Governor is requested to
proclaim October 24, 1969, as "United Nations D a y " in Cali-
fornia; and be it further
   Resolved, That all citizens of California are encouraged
to observe October 24, 1969, for the purpose of developing an
understanding of the problems as well as the potential of the
United Nations; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 381
      Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 163—Relative to
                  Judge M. Q. Bel Mutolo.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 25,1969.]

  WHEREAS, The Members of the Legislature are most sin-
cerely and profoundly saddened to learn of the death of M. G.
Del Mutolo, longtime jurist and former Assemblyman; and
  WHEREAS. Judge Del Mutolo was born in Pisa, Italy, and
came with his parents to California at the age of nine; and
  WHEREAS, Judge Del Mutolo finished grammar school in a
lumber camp school and attended high school in Santa Clara
before working his way through the University of Santa Clara;
and
    h




4088               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Res. Ch. 382

   "WHEREAS, After establishing a law practice in San Jose, he
successfully ran for the Assembly in 1938 and was reelected
in 1940; and
   WHEREAS, During his terms of office as an Assemblyman he
worked for economy measures and more equitable taxes; and
   WHEREAS, He was appointed to the superior court bench in
Santa Clara County by Governor Olson and served with dis-
tinction in every judicial position in the court; and
   WHEREAS, Judge Del Mutolo worked on behalf of numerous
Italian-American cultural activities and was recognized by
the President of Italy, who named him to the coveted Order of
the Cavalieri; and
   WHEREAS, Judge Del Mutolo was a member of the Confer-
ence of California Judges, and a former director of San Jose
Elks Lodge 522 and the Eagles, Aerie No. 8 of San Jose; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the members express their
deep regret on the passing of Judge M. G. Del Mutolo and ex-
tend their sincere condolences to his family and many friends ;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit suitably
prepared copies of this resolution to his widow, Mrs. Dolores
Del Mutolo, and to his daughter, Mrs. Celia Brown.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 382
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 164—Relative to the bicen-
  tennial of winegrowing in California and National Wine
  Festival Month.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, California is celebrating the bicentennial of wine-
growing in the Golden State in 1969 and enjoys preeminence
in this, the 200th anniversary of the planting of the first
grapes; and
   WHEREAS, I t is appropriate that we officially recognize the
growth and acceptance of an industry which first began in the
most rudimentary fashion in the old Mission at San Diego in
1769; and
   WHEREAS, Today, two centuries later, the California wine
industry has won increasing recognition throughout the world
for the quality and general excellence of its wine; and
   WHEREAS, Today, three-fourths of the wine enjoyed in the
United States comes from the sunny vineyards of Califor-
nia ; and
   WHEREAS, The grape and wine industry of this state leads
all other cultivated fruit crops in acreage, capital investment,
and value of product; and
                     19fi9
Res. Ch. 383]                REGULAR SESSION                      4089
   WHEREAS, The National "Wine Festival, October 1 through
31, will honor the wines of California and the bicentennial
observance; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the Assem-
bly thereof concurring, That the members request the Governor
to proclaim October 1969 as National Wine Festival Month in
California and urge California citizens to toast the new vintage
and the entering upon of the third century of winegrowing in
this state; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 383
Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 165—Relative to               "Project
            Concern's Walk for Mankind Day."
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, Friends and members of the Santa Rosa and San
Francisco Committees of Project Concern will be Walking for
Mankind on September 6, 1969, to show and gain support for
Project Concern, an international medical relief organization;
and
   WHEREAS, This walk, a 20-mile distance between the cities
of Santa Rosa and Sonoma, is the first such walk in California,
and will offer everyone, regardless of background, an oppor-
tunity to show their concern about the less fortunate; and
   WHEREAS, It is fitting that the first Project Concern Walk
for mankind be held in the state of which its founder and
leader, James W. Turpin, M.D., is a resident, and in which
Project Concern, Inc., is incorporated; and
   WHEREAS, Since the founding of Project Concern, Inc., by
its dedicated leader, Dr. Turpin, in 1962, clinics and hospitals
have been established and maintained in Hong Kong, Vietnam,
Mexico, and the Appalachia region of the United States of
America; and
   WHEREAS, Project Concern, with its world headquarters in
San Diego, will assist more than 200,000 ill and hungry chil-
dren and adults in 1969 alone; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring, That the Governor of the State of
California is requested to proclaim September 6th, 1969, as
"Project Concern's Walk for Mankind D a y " in the State of
California; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a copy
of this resolution to the Governor, and suitably prepared
copies to Dr. James W. Turpin, founder and president of
Project Concern, Miss Effle Chow, Chairman of the San Fran-
cisco Bay Area Chapter, and Mr. Frank D. Winston, Legal
Counsel of the San Francisco Bay Area Chapter.
4090                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [ f t ^ Ch_   3 8 4



               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 384
              Assembly Joint Resolution No. 62—
                   Relative to alien pupils.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   WHEREAS, There has been an impact of nonimmigrant alien
pupils receiving an education from local school districts in
California; and
   WHEREAS, There are pupils who are illegal entrants to the
United States who live and reside in school districts in Cali-
fornia; and
   WHEREAS, These pupils attend the public school and the
county pays for the total cost of educating these pupils; and
   WHEREAS, This fact creates a tax burden on the local tax-
payers in each county; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the Congress of the United States
to provide the cost for the education of such alien pupils, less
state reimbursement, for those impacted areas, thereby reduc-
ing the financial hardship to school districts and counties, and
that the United States Department of Immigration be pro-
vided more assistance in controlling illegal entrance of alien
pupils across international borders of the United States; and
be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives, and to each Senator and Representative from Cali-
fornia in the Congress of the United States.


               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 385
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 127—Relative to the
  development of a consolidated application proposal for fed-
  eral funds.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 19 69.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the
Superintendent of Public Instruction to establish a broad-
based working committee composed of selected school district
business officials to develop a consolidated application form
and to develop improved administrative procedures for the
application for and the disbursement of federal categorical
aid funds; and be it further
  Resolved, That a consolidated application form and the
improved administrative procedures for the application for
                      1969
Res. Ch. 386]                REGULAR SESSION                  4091

 and the disbursement of federal categorical aid funds shall be
developed by the working committee in cooperation with rep-
resentatives from the Department of Finance, the Office of the
Auditor General, and the office of the Legislative Analyst,
and a representative of the Assembly Committee on Education
appointed by the Speaker of the Assembly, and a representa-
tive of the Senate Committee on Education appointed by the
Senate Committee on Rules; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Superintendent of Public Instruction
submit to the Legislature, on the fifth legislative day of the
1970 Regular Session, a detailed proposal developed by the
working committee relating to a consolidated application form
and improved administrative procedures for the application
for and the disbursement of federal categorical aid funds
which can be implemented during the 1970-1971 fiscal year;
and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Superintendent of Public In-
struction, the Director of Finance, the Office of the Auditor
General and the Legislative Analyst.


                RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 386
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 175—Relative to the cre-
     ation of the Joint Committee on National Tax Policy.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25,1969.]

   WHEREAS, The United States Treasury Department sub-
mitted to the Congress extensive proposals for income tax
reform early in January 1969; and
   WHEREAS, There will be proposals forthcoming for shar-
ing federal revenues with the states and for augmenting state
revenues by grants-in-aid; and
   WHEREAS, There are numerous proposals in the Congress
now that relate to the state taxation of national banks, corpora-
tions doing business in two or more states and the property
of interstate carriers; and
   WHEREAS, Congressional committees are now preparing
extensive amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
and such amendments will require decisions by the Legislature
with respect to whether or not such changes should be incor-
porated into California's tax laws; and
   WHEREAS, I t is essential that the Legislature keep itself
informed on the thinking, proposals and action of the federal
administration and Congress on tax and revenue sharing mat-
ters that will affect California; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, As follows-.
4092              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA           [Res. Oh. 386

    1. The Joint Committee on National Tax Policy is hereby
 created and authorized and directed to ascertain, study and
 analyze all facts relating to major tax proposals, revenue
 sharing proposals, and proposals for block grants before the
 Congress and to inform the Legislature of federal action on
 such matters affecting California.
    2. The committee shall consist of 10 members, with five
 Members of the Assembly being appointed by the Speaker
 thereof, and five Members of the Senate being appointed by
 the Senate Committee on Rules. Vacancies occurring in the
 membership of the committee shall be filled by the appointing
 power.
    3. The committee is authorized to act during this session of
 the Legislature, including any recess, and after final adjourn-
 ment thereof, and during the 1970 Regular Session of the
 Legislature, including any recess, and after final adjournment
 thereof, until 15 days after adjournment of the 91st Congress
 of the United States.
    4. The committee and its members shall have and exercise
 all of the rights, duties and powers conferred upon investi-
 gating committees and their members by the provisions of the
Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly as they are adopted
 and amended from time to time at this session, which pro-
visions are incorporated herein and made applicable to this
 committee and its members.
    5. The committee has the following additional powers and
 duties:
    (a) To select a chairman and vice chairman from its mem-
bership.
    (b) To contract with such other agencies, public or private,
as it deems necessary for the rendition and affording of such
services, facilities, studies and reports to the committee as
will best assist it to carry out the purposes for which it was
created.
    (c) To report its findings and recommendations to the
Legislature from time to time and at any time as it deems
consistent with the purposes for which it was created.
    (d) To do any and all other things necessary or convenient
to enable it fully and adequately to exercise its powers, per-
form its duties, and accomplish the objects and purposes of
this resolution.
   6. The committee and each subcommittee thereof are au-
thorized to leave the State of California in the performance of
their duties.
   7. The committee is authorized to represent California be-
fore the Congress and federal executive agencies to maximize
the amount of revenue to be allocated to California and to
minimize losses of such revenue.
                          1969
Res. Ch. 388]                    REGULAR SESSION                    4093
                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 387
Assembly    Concurrent Resolution No. 204—Relative                 to the
              Joint Legislative Ethics Committee.
                [Piled with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the sum of ten thousand dol-
lars ($10,000), or so much thereof as may be necessary is
hereby made available from the Contingent Funds of the As-
sembly and Senate for the expenses of the Joint Legislative
Ethics Committee and its members and for any charges, ex-
penses or claims it may incur, to be paid from the said fund
and disbursed, after certification by the chairman of the com-
mittee, upon warrants drawn by the State Controller upon
the State Treasurer.

                   RESOLUTION CHAPTER 388
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 214—Relative
        to the Sixth District Agricultural Association.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

  WHEREAS, The City of Los Angeles maintains a recreational
center upon property owned by the Sixth District Agricultural
Association; and
  WHEREAS, This recreational center serves as a meeting place
for young and old; and
  WHEREAS, The Sixth District Agricultural Association has
given the city a notice to vacate the property; and
  WHEREAS, The association claims the property involved is
needed for an exit from other association property; and
  WHEREAS, There is presently a filling station located upon
the property which could be used for such an exit; and
  WHEREAS, The property is greatly needed by the city for its
value as a gathering place for the young and senior citizens
of the city; now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request the Sixth
District Agricultural Association to reconsider its order to the
City of Los Angeles to vacate the property of the association
upon which the city maintains a recreational center and to
explore other means for obtaining its desired exit from other
association property; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Board of Directors of the Sixth
District Agricultural Association, the Director of General
Services, and any other affected state officials.
4094                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [EeS. Ch. 389

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 389
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 218—Relative to the state
                      college budget.
             [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, It has been felt that the line item budget impairs
the control, responsibility and needed flexibility of the Trustees
of the California State Colleges in the allocation of funds for
specific programs; and
   WHEREAS, Rigid budget restrictions may impair the ability
of the trustees to respond to conditions necessitating changes;
and
   WHEREAS, The Report of the Select Committee on Campus
Disturbances has recommended this area for further legisla-
tive study; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Joint Legislative Budget
Committee study the subject of the budgetary procedures re-
lating to the California State Colleges and the feasibility and
the desirability of affording the Trustees of the California
State Colleges greater control and responsibility over the allo-
cation of funds appropriated to the colleges and over the finan-
cial operations of the auxiliary and foundation funds; and
be it further
   Resolved, That the Joint Legislative Budget Committee re-
port its findings and recommendations to the Legislature not
later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 390
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 220—Relative to the
  Joint Committee on Legislative Organization and the Con-
  stitution Revision Commission.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That in addition to any money
heretofore made available the sum of one million ninety-three
thousand seven hundred nineteen dollars ($1,093,719), or so
much thereof as may be necessary, is hereby made available
from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and the Senate
for the expenses of the Joint Committee on Legislative Organi-
zation (created by Section 9107 of the Government Code and
Joint Rule 40) and its members and for any charges, expenses,
or claims it may incur under said statute and resolution and
for the expenses of the Constitution Revision Commission and
its members, to assist the committee in its revision of the Cali-
fornia Constitution, to be paid from the said contingent fund
                          1969
Res. Ch. 392]                    REGULAR SESSION                   4095

and disbursed after certification by the chairman of the Joint
Committee on Legislative Organization upon warrants drawn
by the State Controller upon the State Treasurer; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Joint Committee on Legislative Organiza-
tion is authorized to continue the existence of the Constitution
Revision Commission as continued in existence pursuant to
Resolutions Chapter 202 of the 1968 Regular Session.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 391
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 226—Relative to the
  American Revolution Bicentennial Commission of Cali-
  fornia.
                [Piled with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the sum of two thousand dol-
lars ($2,000), or so much thereof as may be necessary, is
hereby made available from the Contingent Funds of the As-
sembly and Senate for the expenses of the Joint Interim Com-
mittee on the American Revolution Bicentennial and its mem-
bers, to be paid from the said fund and disbursed, after
certification by the chairman of the committee, upon warrants
drawn by the State Controller upon the State Treasurer.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 392
      Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 229—Relative
              to education for Vietnam veterans.
                [Piled with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

   WHEEEAS, Only 20 percent of the Vietnam veterans eligible
for college assistance have entered college; and
   WHEKEAS, The participation in college by veterans of W o r l d
War I I and the Korean War was several times the present
rate; and
   WHEEEAS, A "veteran special" admission category was
established at the University of California as a special admis-
sion status for veterans of World War I I and the Korean W a r
who had insufficient academic records to be admitted to the
university program but were mature and highly motivated, b u t
was eliminated as a result of the Donahoe Higher Education
Act in 1960, incorporating the Master Plan for Higher Educa-
tion ; and
   WHEKEAS, Many of the Vietnam veterans are moving into
the economy woefully undertrained for the jobs available,
even after their training in the military services; and
   129—1954
4096               STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                  [Res   Q^ 393

   "WHEREAS, Encouragement should be given to veterans to
participate in higher education in order that they and the
community may make full use of their experience, maturity,
and skills; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Legislature declares its
intent that the University of California and the California
State Colleges shall admit honorably discharged veterans of
the United States military service, who were residents of the
State of California at the time of their entry into such military
service, who apply for admission as new students to the univer-
sity or a state college, who are not fully eligible under the
regular standards for admission, and who are deemed by the
appropriate officials of the university or a state college to show
promise, motivation, and ability to successfully complete a pro-
gram of higher education, in addition to and without regard
to persons admitted under the special admission policy estab-
lished in Resolution Chapter No. 157 of the Statutes of 1960
or under any law, rule, or policy governing such special ad-
missions ; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the Board of Eegents of the Uni-
versity of California and to the Trustees of the California
State Colleges, and Coordinating Council for Higher'Educa-
tion.

               RESOLUTION CHAPTER 393
Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 234—Relative to desig-
  nating the Olympic Tunnel as the Robert E. McClure
  Tunnel.
            [Filed with Secretary of State August 25, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, Robert E. McClure served as a member of the
California Highway Commission from 1954 to 1962; and
    "WHEREAS, During that time he played a significant role in
expanding the freeway system of the Los Angeles metropolitan
area; and
    WHEREAS, He was named Southern California Chairman of
Citizens for Freeways and has served on various other ad-
visory committees for promoting California highways and
freeways; and
    WHEREAS, He played a significant and instrumental role in
the development of the Santa Monica Freeway route; and
    WHEREAS, He was presented a scroll at the freeway dedica-
tion ceremonies in October 1964 by the county board of super-
visors which cited him as the " F a t h e r of the Santa Monica
F r e e w a y " ; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Olympic Tunnel on the
Santa Monica Freeway is hereby designated instead as the
Robert E. McClure Tunnel; and be it further
                         1969
Ees. Ch. 394]                   REGULAR SESSION                    4097

  Resolved, That the Division of Highways in the Department
of Public Works is hereby requested to erect and maintain
appropriate signs showing the designation; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Director of Public Works.


                   RESOLUTION C H A P T E R 394
           Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 128—
                Relative to vocational education.
                [Filed with Secretary of State August 27, 1969.]

    WHEREAS, Vocational education in California is a vital force
in providing the state with trained manpower, in reducing
unemployment, and in countering high school dropout r a t e s ;
and
   WHEREAS, Numerous statewide studies have raised serious
questions as to a lack of coordination and cooperation among
the state's high schools, community colleges, and private schools
in providing ' ' career ladder'' programs—from the high school
level through the community college level; and
   WHEREAS, The matter of statewide "career l a d d e r " trans-
ferable curriculum for vocational students is of primary pub-
lie concern in curbing high school dropout rates and capturing
the ambitions of high school and junior college youth; and
   WHEREAS, A statewide "career l a d d e r " transferable cur-
riculum and effective occupational guidance depends to a high,
degree upon the coordination and cooperation of both academic
and vocational educators in translating one another's curricu-
lum into understandable, common standards; and
    WHEREAS, A basic function of the Advisory Council on Vo-
cational Education is to explore, research, and conduct studies
in matters affecting the whole of vocational education; now,
therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the members request t h a t the
Advisory Council on Vocational Education engage in a com-
prehensive, in-depth study of the feasibility of (a) statewide
"career ladder" transferable curriculum from the high school
level through the community college level, and (b) statewide
'' career ladder'' guidance and counseling from the high school
level through the community college level—both with the aim
of curbing high school dropout rates and capturing the am-
bitions of youth; and be it further
    Resolved, That the members request that the Advisory Coun-
cil on Vocational Education submit to the Legislature not later
than the fifth legislative day of the 1971 Regular Session
of the Legislature a report of its findings and recommenda-
tions in connection with said study; and be it further
4098                STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA                [ReS. Ch. 395

  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Advisory Council on Vocational
Education.

                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 395
       Assembly Joint Resolution No. 66—Relative to the
          Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968.
           [Filed with Secretary of State September 15, 1969.]

   "WHEREAS, In enacting the Intergovernmental Cooperation
 Act of 1968, (P.L. 90-577), the Congress of the United States
 has declared its intent to achieve the fullest cooperation and
 coordination of activities among the levels of government in
 order to improve the operation of our federal system in an
 increasingly complex society; and
   WHEREAS, The California Legislature concurs in and sup-
 ports this objective; and
   WHEREAS, The Congress of the United States is presently
 considering amendments to the Intergovernmental Cooperation
 Act of 1968, including certain provisions designed to improve
 the system of grants-in-aid to the states; and
   WHEREAS, Within the federal system the states have unique
 capabilities in terms of innovating and serving as a testing
 ground for possible solutions to critical public problems; and
   WHEREAS, The California Legislature has demonstrated its
 willingness and ability to take the initiative in seeking new
 approaches to problems such as air pollution, crime prevention,
transportation, education and other pressing problems; and
   WHEREAS, Such efforts on the part of state legislatures will
advance the objectives of the Intergovernmental Cooperation
Act of 1968 and therefore merit endorsement and support at
the federal level, including the provision of financial assist-
ance; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly and Senate of the State of Cali-
fornia, jointly, That the Legislature of the State of California
respectfully memorializes the President and the Congress of
the United States to enact amendments to the Intergovern-
mental Cooperation Act of 1968 to permit state legislatures to
receive funds for research, demonstration and feasibility pur-
poses under existing federal grant-in-aid programs; and be it
further
   Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit
copies of this resolution to the President and Vice President
of the United States, to the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives, and to each Senator and Representative from California
in the Congress of the United States.
                      1969
Ees. Ch. 398]                REGULAR SESSION                     4099
                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 396
   Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 249—Relative to the
           California Medical Assistance Program.
           [Filed with Secretary of State September 15, 1969.]

  "WHEEEAS, The Legislature has been informed that there is
a great delay by the fiscal intermediary in the Medi-Cal pro-
gram in paying claims of pharmacists made under the pro-
gram; and
  "WHEREAS, Delays in such payments have in some instances
exceeded one year after submission of claims; and
  WHEEEAS, Such delays have imposed great hardships on
pharmacists, since they must also meet the costs of doing busi-
ness; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Assembly of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the Auditor General is di-
rected to conduct an immediate investigation into the pay-
ment of claims of pharmacists under the Medi-Cal program
and to report his findings and recommendations to the Legis-
lature not later than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Reg-
ular Session; and be it further
  Resolved, That the Chief Clerk of the Assembly transmit a
copy of this resolution to the Auditor General.


                RESOLUTION CHAPTER 397
     Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 250—Relative to
          adjournment of the 1969 Regular Session.
           [Filed with Secretary of State September 15, 1969.]

  Resolved by the Assembly of the State of of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That the 1969 Regular Session of
the Legislature of the State of California shall adjourn sine die
at 5 p.m. on September 10, 1969.


                 RESOLUTION CHAPTER 398
 Senate Concurrent Resolution No. 167—Relative to the death
     of United States Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen.
           [Filed with Secretary of State September 15, 1969.]

  WHEEEAS, I t was with great sadness that the Members of
the Legislature of California learned of the death of a great
American statesman and political leader, United States Sen-
ator Everett McKinley Dirksen; and
  WHEEEAS, Always possessing a deep-rooted love for rural
America, Senator Dirksen was born on January 4, 1896, in
4100              STATUSES OF CALIFORNIA           [ R e S - C h _ 398

Pekin, Illinois, a town of 22,000 in the central part of the
state, and, after his father's untimely death when he was
seven, he worked on the small family farm and peddled prod-
uce while attending high school; and
   WHEREAS, Selling newspaper want ads in Minneapolis and
peddling patent medicine door-to-door in South Dakota to
raise funds, the Senator worked his way through the law
school of the University of Minnesota and thereafter became
a member of the State Bars of Illinois and the District of
Columbia; and
   WHEREAS, Answering the call of his country this valiant
and brave American left college to join the United States
Army during World War I as a private, and, distinguishing
himself on the field of combat, won a battlefield commission as
a second lieutenant; and
   WHEREAS, Senator Dirksen represented the people of the
16th Illinois Congressional District for 16 years before his
election as United States Senator for Illinois in 1950, and,
rising through the ranks of leadership of the Republican
Party, the Senator was elected minority whip in 1957 and
minority leader in 1959, a post which he held until his death;
and
   WHEREAS, Relying only on notes rather than a prepared
speech text and drawing on his vast knowledge of the Bible,
Shakespeare, and world literature, Senator Dirksen was one
of the 20th century's best known and well-received orators, as,
in one breath, he could declaim like a thundering prophet,
while in the next moment he could drop his voice to the softest
whisper and let his audience hang on his every word; and
   WHEREAS, Participating in many and varied debates in the
halls of Congress throughout his many and devoted years of
service to the citizens of Illinois and the United States, the
Senator left an everlasting and impressive record in the an-
nals of United States history, and for generations to come he
will be remembered as an American who forthrightly cher-
ished and applauded the achievements of his native land; and
   WHEREAS, A prolific writer of plays, novels and short stories,
Senator Dirksen met his gracious wife, Louella Carver, in a
local theatrical group in Pekin, Illinois, and they have a lovely
daughter, Danice Joy, who is the wife of Howard H. Baker,
United States Senator from Tennessee; now, therefore, be it
   Resolved by the Senate of the State of California, the As-
sembly thereof concurring. That the members mourn the pass-
ing of United States Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen and
the loss to the nation of this outstanding and devoted states-
man and commend the record of this great leader to the citi-
zens of California and the United States as worthy of emula-
tion by all; and be it further
   Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate transmit a suit-
ably prepared copy of this resolution to Mrs. Louella Dirksen.
                              ERRATA
  The following insertions, deletions and corrections are necessary to
remedy defects in Tables of Sections Affected, which commence on
page 291 of the 1969 Summary Digest.
                    Bill       Chapter                                             BiU     Chapter
   Section          No.         No.      Effect                    Section         No.       No.     Effect

                EDUCATION CODE                                      HARBORS AND NAVIGATION CODE
Delete—
  6425         AB      606      784       g * 19 122
                                                                   704        AB     538    406      Am
Correction—                                                    Tncprt
                                                               XlloCl L
  6751.1       AB      606      784      Ad, S* »                             AB     814    413      Ad
                                                                 6241.1
Correction—
  6752.1       AB     606       784      Ad, S* »                         HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
Correction—                                                    Delete—
  6752.2       AB     606       784      Ad, S* M                  704       A B 538   406   Am
Insert—                                                        Delete—
  6902.05      AB     606       784      Ad, S* w               6241.1       A B 814   413   Ad
Correction—                                                    Correction—
  6903.2       AB     606       784      A d , S * *>          Div. 12,
Correction—                                                    P t . 2,
10956          AB     140     1368       Ad(BN)82              Oh. 1,
Correction—                                                    A r t . 4,
                                                               (heading) S B 138        39   Am&BN
 11003         AB      606      784       Am, S * W M
Correction^—
                                                                             PUBLIC UTILITIES CODE
 13893         A B 1728         896       Ad 1 B 7 2 l a
                                                               Insert—
Correction—                                                      2754.1       AB     328    162      Ad*
 14001         A B 1728         896       B & Ad 8 2       M

Insert—                                                              REVENUE A N D TAXATION CODE
21800          AB2056           600       Am*                  Delete—
Delete—                                                         5294      S B 316    1362  A m 2 8 , S"»
28100          A B 2056         600       Am*
                                                                     STREETS AND HIGHWAYS CODE
                 ELECTIONS CODE                                Insert—
Delete—                                                          5294      S B 316  1362 Am28, S 1 "
22540          A B 1676         438       Am
Insert—                                                                            WATER CODE
23540          A B 1676         438      Am                    Delete—
                                                               12949.5        SB     130     68      B (as Ad
                 FINANCIAL CODE                                                                       by Stats.
Insert—                                                                                               1965,
  8404         AB      763      612       B                                                           Ch. 991)
                                                               Correction—
            GOVERNMENT CODE                                    13030          AB     687    409      Ad™
Correction—
  6904      A B 968  1370 Am 8 »                               Correction—
                                                                                                     Ad2"
                                                               13031          AB     687    409
Insert—
                                                               Correction—
  8373      S B 1115 1161 B
                                                               13032          AB     687    409      Ad 2 1 3
Correction—                                                    Correction—
  9359.11 A B 1868    776  g * 181                                                          409      Ad2"
                                                               13033          AB     687
Correction—•                                                   Correction—
 9359.12 A B 1 8 6 8            776       g*134                13169          AB     687    409      Ad 2 6
Delete—
11559.5      S B 363           1599       B                        WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE
Correction—-                                                   Correction—
31558.1      A B 776           1247       Am»                   6002       A B 986  722   Am*21


 M
  * Effective immediately.
 21
    Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
 28
    Operative on July 1, 1969.
 28
    Operative on January 1,1970.
       Operative January 1, 1971.
   »82 No force or effect after June 30, 1971.
       Not operative.
 134 provisions control over conflicting provisions of Section 9359.1.
 146
 197
       See Sec. 12 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  232
       Ceases to be operative June 30, 1973.
 2
       See Sec. 4 of Ch. re prior prevailing enactments.
 242
    « Operative only until April 1, 1970.
       Operative until January 1, 1970.

      130—1954
        SUMMARY DIGEST
                                     of

Statutes Enacted and Resolutions Adopted
             Including Proposed Constitutional Amendments

                                    and

                 Table of Sections Affected




                          CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE

                     1969 Regular Session


C. D. ALEXANDER                                      JAMES D. DRISCOLL
Secretary of the Senate                              Chief Clerk of the Assembly


                                Compiled by
                             GEORGE H. MURPHY
                               Legislative Counsel
                             CONTENTS
                                                       Page
Preface                                                  4
Abbreviations                                            5
Notes on Effective Dates                                 6
Bill Chapter Digests                                     9
Resolution Chapter Digests                             245

Cross-Reference Tables (Bill Number of Chapters)       275
Vetoed Bills: List                                     287
Table of Sections Affected (Statutory Record)          289
Index                                              -   387




                                (3>
                                PREFACE
Digest
  The Summary Digest consists of a short summary of each law enacted,
and each constitutional amendment, concurrent or joint resolution!
adopted. Except as indicated, each digest is the Legislative Counsel's
digest which appeared on the face of the legislative measure when
placed on final passage by both houses.
Cross-Reference Tables
   The text of the summary is arranged numerically by chapters.
   Cross-reference tables are included which designate chapter number
of each legislative measure enacted by bill number or resolution number.
Index
  A subject matter index to all measures including constitutional
amendments and resolutions is included.
Sections Affected by 1969 Legislation
   This addition of the Summary Digest includes a table of sections
affected by laws enacted. This table shows each change made in existing
law by listing each code section or general law affected by legislative
action in 1969. The table cites both bill number and chapter number by
Which the existing law was affected.




                                    (4)
                   ABBREVIATIONS
SB                       Senate Bill
AB:                 i.   Assembly Bill
SCA                       Senate Constitutional Amendment
SCR                      Senate Concurrent Resolution
S JR                     Senate Joint Resolution
ACA                      Assembly Constitutional Amendment
ACR                      Assembly Concurrent Resolution
AJR                      Assembly Joint Resolution
Sec                      Section
Art.                     Article
Ch                       Chapter
Res. Ch.                 Resolution Chapter
Pt                       Part
Div.                     Division
Stats.                   Statutes
Ag.C                     Agricultural Code
B. & P.C.                 Business and Professions Code»
Civ.C                    Civil Code
C.C.P                    Code of Civil Procedure
Com.C.                   Commercial Code
Const                    Constitution
Corp.C.                  Corporations Code
Ed.C                     Education Code
Elec.C.                  Elections Code
Evid.C    .              Evidence Code
Fin.C                    Financial Code
F. & G.C                 Fish and Game Code
Gov.C                    Government Code
H. & N.C                 Harbors and Navigation Code-
H . & S.C                Health and Safety Code
Ins.C.        '.         Insurance Code
Lab.C                    Labor Code
M. & V.C                  Military and Veterans Code
Pen.C                    Penal Code
Prob.C                   Probate Code
P.R.C                    Public Resources Code
P.TJ.C                   Public Utilities Code
R. & T.C                 Revenue and Taxation Code
S. & H.C.                 Streets and Highways Code
U.I.C.                   Unemployment Insurance Code»
Veh.C                    Vehicle Code
WatC                ,    Water Code
W. & 1.0                 Welfare and Institutions Code




                         (5)
                NOTES ON EFFECTIVE DATES
    The 1969 Eegular Session convened on January 6, 1969, and ad*
journed sine die September 10, 1969. Statutes, other than those taking
immediate effect, take effect on November 10,1969. Digests note statutes
taking effect by "In effect immediately."
    The effective date of a joint or concurrent resolution is the date it
 is filed with the Secretary of State.




                                  (6)
SUMMARY DIGEST OF
STATUTES ENACTED

  1969 REGULAR SESSION
                                BILL CHAPTERS
Ch. 1. ( A B 8) CONRAD New act, re political parties.
  Provides that the first meeting in 1969 of the Republican State Central Committee
shall be held on the fourth, rather than the third, Sunday of J a n u a r y .
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 2 ( A B 22) M O R E T T I Adds Sec. 34, R. & T.C., re transmission of local
     funds.
  Permits state agencies to transmit funds received which were intended as pay-
ment of a local tax to the local governments entitled thereto under specified con-
ditions.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 3 ( A B 221) S I E R O T Y Adds Sec. 25413.6, E d . C , re junior college district
     board.
  Makes detailed provisions re election procedures for candidates of a separate gov-
erning board for a junior college district presently governed by the board of educa-
tion of a city school district with an a.d.a. in excess of 400,000.
  Effective until July 1, 1969.
  In effect   immediately.
Ch. 4 ( A B 184) D U N L A P Amends Sees. 43072, 51334, 51502, 51504, G o v . C ,
     re property taxation.
   Permits city which transfers property assessment function, tax collecting func-
tion, or both, to county to request the county to only prepare a secured roll in
the first year of transfer and tnereafter both secured and unsecured rolls and per-
mits city to independently assess property on the unsecured roll in the nrst year i t
uses county values in tne preparation of its tax roil. Requires county tax collection
for a city to be on a calendar-year basis, where city collection was previously
on calendar-year basis and function is transferred to county.
   Permits copy of ordinance transferring duties of assessor and tax collector to be
filed with county auditor on first Monday of February following adoption of the
ordinance or later date acceptable to county board of supervisors, ratner than re-
quiring filing on or before first Monday of February following adoption.
   In effect   immediately.
Ch. 5 ( S B 233) MOSCONE Adds Sec. 20020.6, Gov.C, re public employees'
     retirement system.
  Includes law enforcement employees of the San Francisco P o r t Authority in local
policeman category of membersnip in P.E.R.B. with respect to City and County of
Ban Francisco.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 6 ( S B 36) WAY New act, re Owens Valley: navigational facilities.
   Reappropnates $15,000 of appropriation made by Item 230.5, Budget Act of 1968,
to .Department of Aeronautics tor tne purcnase, placement, and operation of navi-
gational facilities in Owens Valley.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 7 ( S B 216) LAGOMARSINO New act, re open-space assessment proce-
    dures.
  Specifies that property otherwise eligible for assessment as open-space lands shall
be so assessed for the 19b9-1970 fiscal year if tne instrument reflecting the fact
that the property is enforceably restricted to open-space uses i s signed and re-
corded on or before May 15, 1969.
  In effect immediately.




                                        (9)
10                  I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 8 ( A B 93) W I L S O N New act, re state colleges.
   Appropriates $900,000 to California State Colleges in augmentation of 1968
Budget Act for increased support necessary to enable the Trustees of the Cali-
fornia State Colleges to provide for the acceptance of as many qualified students as
feasible by state colleges. Specifies legislative intent that $325,000 is for reimburse-
ment of California state college student fee revenues previously utilized for in-
structional purposes.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 9 ( S B 133) GKUNSKY Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., P e n . C ,
      Veh.C, re motor vehicles: infractions—misdemeanors.
   Specifies that persons convicted under the Vehicle Code of infractions, as well
as certain special misdemeanors, may not receive benefits of the Penal Code section
which authorizes retroactive dismissals of misdemeanor convictions for subsequent
good conduct when probation is not granted.
   Requires municipal and justice court judges to establish a schedule of bail for
infractions as well as for misdemeanors.
   Eliminates misdemeanor language from provisions relating to violations of regula-
tions governing operation of ambulances or armored cars, violations of provisions
relating to suspension of registration of motor vehicles involved in accidents, viola-
tions of provisions relating to authority of armored cars to use red lights, and vio-
lations of regulations relating to safe operation of farm vehicles. Deletes provisions
prescribing special fines for violations of provisions requiring motor vehicles to be
equipped with motor vehicle pollution control devices, but requires when court
finds that a person has willfully violated such provisions, that he be fined maximum
amount and prohibits suspension of any p a r t of fine.
    Revises list of violations expressly declared to be misdemeanors for purposes of
 Vehicle Code to include violations of provisions relating to unlawful use of indentifi-
 cation cards, driving while driving privilege is suspended or revoked for other than
 certain prescribed reasons, use of false or fraudulent license by minors, and failure
 to appear. Expressly provides that violation of rules or regulations relating to ve-
 hicles transporting hazardous materials is a misdemeanor.
   Makes related changes.
   Makes changes relating to the safe operation of farm labor vehicles operative
 July 1, 1969.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 10 ( S B 60) D A N I E L S O N Amends various sees., P.U.C., re public util-
    ities.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 11 (AB 67) SCHABARUM Amends Sec. 39129, H . & S.C. and Sec.
     4000.2, Veh.C, re motor vehicle pollution control.
  Clarifies application of motor vehicle pollution control requirements to motor ve-
hicles of 1955 through 1962 year model registered in this state, which were previ-
ously registered outside this state, to an owner whose residence is in a county or
portion of a county within certain air pollution control districts.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 12 ( A B 369) BADHAM Amends Sec. 9997, B . & P.C., re employment
    agencies.
  Establishes minimum filing and licensing fees for employment agencies and sets
maximum that may be charged at present statutory figure prescribed therefor.
  Specifies that the Director of Professional and Vocational Standards rather than
the Bureau of Employment Agencies shall charge such fees.
  In effect   immediately.
Ch. 13 ( A B 36) L A N T E R M A N New act, re validations.
  First Validating Act of 1969, which validates organization, boundaries, acts,
proceedings, and bonds of counties, cities, and specific districts, agencies and entities.
  In effect  immediately.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          11
Oh. 14 ( A B 516) P O R T E R Amends Sees. 11731 and 11751, W a t . C , re Central
    Valley Project bonds.
  Raises permissible interest rate on Central Valley Project revenue bonds from
5J percent to 6J percent.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 15 ( S B 278) MOSCONE New act, re Hastings College of the Law.
  Appropriates $158,000 to University of California in augmentation of 1968
Budget Act to provide additional money to construct alterations a t Hastings
College of the Law.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 16 ( S B 134) BTJRGENER New act, re state school building aid.
   Defers the repayment of state school building loan amounts for the fiscal year
1968-1969 for school district with respect to which the board of supervisors failed
in the fiscal year 1968-1969 to levy a tax upon the property in the district suffi-
cient to raise for the district the amount of money to be withheld by the State Con-,
 troller during the fiscal year 1968-1969, and provides for repayment of such loans de-
ferred in the fiscal year 1969-1970, plus 5 percent of such amount.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 17 ( A B 167) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 6301.5, B . & P.C., re. law librariea
   Provides that in county in which municipal court has not been established and
in which there is no county bar association, the board of law library trustees may
consist of not less than three members if board of supervisors makes designated de-
termination.
Ch. 18 ( A B 46) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 31054, W a t . C , re county water
     districts.
  Provides certain provisions with respect to the commencement of water service
by publicly owned utility to land within a county water district are applicable if
vote to incur indebtedness was by § of voters voting a t election, rather than %
of registered voters in the district.
Ch. 19 ( S B 106) G R U N S K Y Amends Sec. 20012, Veh.C, re accident r e p o r t s :
     vehicles.
  Adds to class of specified persons who are entitled to obtain information in re-
quired accident reports and supplemental reports of automobile accidents, and re-
lated driver and witness statements, any attorney who declares under penalty of
perjury that he represents any such specified person. Requires law enforcement
agency to whom accident was reported to disclose entire, contents of such reports,
and specifically includes diagrams in matters to be disclosed. Deletes requirements
that driver and witness statements which are disclosed be signed.
 Ch. 20 ( S B 257) D I L L S Adds Sec. 43015, Gov.C, Sec. 155.15, R. & T . C , re.
      disaster relief.
   Authorizes the board of supervisors of a county or the legislative body of a
 chartered city which assesses and collects its own taxes to provide by ordinance for
 the reassessment of property damaged or destroyed by a major misfortune or calamity
 prior to April 1, 1969, in an area or region subsequently declared by the Governor
 to be in a state of disaster, if such damage is in excess of $1,000. Provides the man-
 ner in which tax shall be computed in the event it is less t h a n tax theretofore
 coniputed.
    In effect   immediately.
 Ch.   21 ( A B 35) Assembly Committee on Health and Welfare Amends, adds
      and repeals various sees, and chs., W. & I . C , re medical assistance.
   Revises provisions establishing program of health benefits for aged persons,
 public assistance recipients and medically needy persons.
   In effect immediately.
 Ch. 22 (AB 531) C R O W N New act, re property tax exemptions.
   Provides for cancellation or refund of two-thirds of the property taxes imposed
 for any fiscal year commencing in 1968 on property as to which the college exemp-
12                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

tion would have been available, if the property had been acquired earlier, and all
of the penalty or interest on such tax. Application for exemption must be made on
or before April 15, 1069.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 23 ( A B 894) T O W N S B N D New act, re Lawndale elementary school dis-
     trict.
  Provides that the governing board of the Lawndale Elementary School District
may call an election to put the school district tax override measure that was de-
feated on March 4, * 1969, before voters of the district again. Requires that the
election be held no later than May 15, 1969.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 24 ( S B 2) S H E R M A N Adds, amends various sees., P.TJ.C, R. & T.C.,
     S. & H.C., re Bay area rapid transit.
   Requires the board of directors of the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit
District to impose a one-half of 1 percent sales and use tax within 30 days of the
effective date of the enactment to finance the completion of the rapid transit
system. Provides for termination of the tax when this purpose has been accom-
plished or for a termination or reduction of the taxes, if funds are subsequently
made available to the district from some other source. Requires the State Board of
Equalization to administer the tax and requires the district to compensate the
state board therefof, including the costs of preparation in the amount of $125,000.
   Authorizes the board of supervisors of counties within the district to call an ad-
visory election to determine if the electors, by majority vote, prefer an alternate
method of financing the completion of the district and requires the district to use
any such alternate method, in lieu of the sales and use tax, after enabling legisla-
tion is enacted.
   Specifies that revenues derived from the tax in an amount not to exceed $150,-
000,000, plus interest and costs, may be used to pay bonds and notes issued to com-
 plete the transit system.
   Limits the California Toll Bridge Authority's obligation to the San Francisco Bay
 Area Rapid Transit Distritt to aid in the financing of the San Francisco-Oakland
 Rapid Transit Tube to $180,000,000 and specifies that any additional funds which
 may be necessary therefor shall be provided from the proceeds of the district's sales
 and use tax.
    Requires the district, rather than the Department of Public Works, to construct
 the rapid transit tube and gives the district sole jurisdiction over the tube after
 the date the sales and use tax is imposed by the district, subject to certain fiscal
 powers vested in the department.
    Makes various conforming changes.
 Ch. 25 ( S B 125) D A N I E L S O N Amends and renumbers Sec. 21200.5, as added
     by Ch. 563, Stats. 1968, F i n . C , re pawnbrokers.
   Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
 Ch. 26 ( A B 62) H A Y E S Amends, amends and renumbers, and repeals, vari-
     ous sees., Veh.C, re vehicles.
   Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
 Ch. 27 ( A B 113) DAVIS Amends Sec. 8, Ch. 1280, Stats. 1957, re Tehama
      County flood control.
    Provides a compensation of $25 for each day that a director of the Tehama County
 Flood Control and W a t e r Conservation District is in attendance at official meetings
 of the board of directors of the district, rather than the directors serving without
 compensation.
 Ch. 28 ( A B 160) VEYSEY Amends Sec. 36620, Veh.C, re length of combina-
      tion of vehicles.
    Extends until 91st day after final adjournment of 1971 Regular Session provi-
 sions permitting certain prescribed combinations of vehicles used exclusively for
 transporting of cotton from a farm to a cotton gin and return to use highways
 even though their length exceeds 60 feet.
 * Correction.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           13
Ch. 29 ( A B 185) K A R A B I A N Amends various sees., R. & T.C., re taxation.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 30 (AB 283) Z ' B E R G Adds Sees. 54919.1 and 54919.2, Gov.C, re sanita-
        tion districts.
     Declares any sanitation district the formation of which was completed between
 J a n u a r y 25, 1969, and February 15, 1969, which files a statement and map or plat
 as required by law on or before March 1, 1969, and any zones within a county
service area the establishment of which was completed between J a n u a r y 25, 1969,
and April 1, 1969, which file the requisite statement and map or plat on or before
April 1, 1969, are formed for assessment and taxation purposes for the 1969-1970
fiscal year.
    In effect immediately.
Ch. 31 ( A B 709) QUIMBY Adds Sec. 20.1, San Bernardino County Flood
      Control Act (Ch.73, Stats. 1939), re San Bernardino flood control.
   Authorizes San Beranrdino County Flood Control District to have specified work-
done by day labor without advertising for bids or requiring bonds, and authorizes
district to acquire materials, equipment and supplies in open market without ad-
vertising for bids therefor under specified circumstances. Specifies such provisions to
be applicable only to works in areas which have been declared a. disaster area by
Governor and which are required to be done as a result of such disaster.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 32 (AB 539) MONAGAN Adds Sec. 18021.6, Gov.C, re additional com?
     pensation: state employees.
  Appropriates $770,000 to pay overtime compensation to those employees re-
quired to receive such by the Federal F a i r Labor Standards Act.
  In effect immediately.
 Ch. 33 ( A B 133) STACEY Amends Sec. 14, Kern County W a t e r Agency Act
       (Ch. 1003, Stats. 1961), re Kern County W a t e r Agency.
   Prohibits Kern County Water Agency from levying tax under Section 14 of the>
 Kern County W a t e r Agency Act to pay expenses, costs, liabilities and indebtedness
of agency on property also within the Antelope Valley-East Kern W a t e r Agency or
the Devils Den Water District as of both J a n u a r y 1, 1969, and the date of the
levy, as long as such entity continues to have substantially the same powers as a t
present and has a contract with the state for a water supply from the State W a t e r
Resources Development System.
   I n effect immediately.
Ch. 34 (AB 367) L E W I S Adds Sec. 38, Mojave W a t e r Agency Law (Ch. 2146,
     Stats. 1959), re Mojave Water Agency zone.
  Authorizes Mojave W a t e r Agency, for purposes of paying variable costs of pur-
chasing up to 10,000 acre-feet of water from state, to establish a zone of benefit
within the area contiguous to Mojave River and within which the use of water
affects or is affected by the natural available water supply of the Mojave River
system, and to levy a tax within such zone. Specifies procedure for establishment of
such zone.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 35 ( S B 109) M A R K S Adds Sec. 5030.1, E d . C , re public education.
  Authorizes governing board of unified school district in a city and county to:
conduct classes a t airport and county jail located outside the district.
Ch. 36 ( S B 54) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 27361.2, Gov.C, re recording fees:
     multiple documents.
   Imposes additional recording fee of one dollar for each reference to previously
recorded document, other than first reference, requiring additional indexing, where
a document is recorded which refers to more than one previously recorded document,
and which requires additional indexing by county recorder.
Ch. 37 ( S B 124) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 819, Corp.C,           re   corporatioa
    directors.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change;
  14                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Ch. 38 ( S B 136) G R U N S K Y Repeals Sees. 68808, 69109, G o v . C ; adds See.
       1508, P e n . C , re habeas corpus.
    Deletes statutory provisions specifically authorizing issuance of writs of habeas
  eorpus by justices of the Supreme Court and Courts of Appeal and revises provisions
  relating to return of such writs.
  Ch. 39 ( S B 138) B E I L E N S O N Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, repeals
      various sees., Gov.C, and H . & S.C., re health and safety.
    Maintenance of codes. No substantive change.
  Ch. 40 ( S B 150) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 72759, Gov.C, re jury and
        traffic commissioners.
     Deletes requirement that jury and traffic commissioners shall be appointed from
  staff of court clerks,* but specifies that those who have been so appointed shall con-
  tinue to serve as such clerks without additional compensation.
    In effect immediately.
 Ch. 41 ( A B 89) P A T T E E Amends Sees. 6723,16003, repeals Sec. 18713, Ag.C;
     re agriculture.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
 Ch. 42 ( A B 121) P O R T E R Amends Sec. 2248, H & S.C, re mosquito abate-
      ment districts.
   Increase from $25 to $35 the maximum allowance that may be paid each mosquito
 abatement board member in lieu of payment of expenses incurred in attending
 board business meetings.
 Ch. 43 ( A B 144) B I D D L E Amends various sees., P e n . C , re crimes and punish-
     ment.
   Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
  Ch. 44 ( A B 209) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Amends Sec. 1952.2, C.C.P., re evi-
      dence.
    Authorizes court upon judgment in a civil action becoming final, at expiration of
  appeal period, to order the clerk to return all depositions as well as exhibits, filed
 as well as introduced, to the attorneys for the parties filing as well as introducing
 them.
 Ch. 45 ( A B 211) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Amends Sec. 8209, Gov.C, re notaries
      public.
   Permits destruction of records of notary who has died or otherwise has ceased to
 be a notary after 10 years from the date of deposit with the county clerk if no re-
 quest for or reference to the records has been made.
Ch. 46 ( A B 212) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Amends Sec. 361, P r o b . C , re probat-
     ing foreign wills.
  Expressly requires that copy of foreign will which is offered for probate in this
state and of the order or decree admitting it to probate in the other state or country
or other evidence of its establishment or proof in accordance with the laws of the
other state or country, satisfy prescribed requirements of Evidence Code, rather
than be duly authenticated or proved.
Ch. 47 ( A B 216) B E L O T T I Amends See. 8276, F . & G . C , re taking of crabs.
 Removes expiration date on seasons for the commercial taking of crabs.
Ch. 48 ( A B 276) B U R T O N Amends Sec. 1952.3, C.C.P., re exhibits and depo-
    sitions.
  Authorizes court, on its own motion, in any county,' rather than only in counties
with population of one million or more, to order destroyed or otherwise disposed of
any exhibit or deposition introduced in the trial of a specified type of action.
Ch. 49 (AB 278) R U S S E L L Amends See. 11526, adds Sec. 4019, I n s . C , re
    mutual insurers.
  Specifies that mutual insurer which has completed specified voluntary mutualization
proceedings or which has converted to a mutual legal reserve insurer is not subject
* Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           15
to provisions generally applicable to mutual insurers. Specifies this provision
is declaratory of existing law.
   Provides that mutual insurer which completes specified voluntary mutualization
proceedings may thereafter establish new classes of policyholders.
   In effect   immediately.
Ch. 50 ( S B 78) W E D W O B T H Amends Sees. 51520 and 51562, Gov.C, r e
    consolidating local tax administration.
  Bequires, rather than permits, a county of 4,000,000 or more population to per-
form the assessing and tax-collecting functions for a city within the county without
compensation from the city.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 51 ( A B 80) MONAGAN Amends Sees. 19504 and 19507, B . & T.C., r e
     property tax assistance.
  Authorizes senior citizens property tax assistance where a claimant is required by
law to pay property taxes on a homestead by reason of his ownership (including
possessory interest) in the dwelling, land, or both and where the premises are oc-
cupied by reason of a claimant's ownership of a dwelling located on land owneil by
a nonprofit incorporated association, of which the claimant is a member, when
such association requires the claimant to pay a pro rata share of the property
taxes levied against association land.
  Applies to claims filed for property tax assistance for fiscal years ending on
and after J u n e 30, 1969.
Ch. 52 ( A B 76) DAVIS New act and amends, amends and renumbers, and adds
      various sees., B . & T.C., Gov.C, S. & H.C., re emergency flood relief.
   Appropriates $25,000,000 in addition to the unexpended balance of Item 446.7,
Budget Act of 1958, as amended, to Department of Finance for purpose of financial
aid to local agencies pursuant to Emergency Flood Belief Law for repair or restora-
tion of public real property, other than streets, roads, and bridges, damaged or
destroyed by storms and floods, including tidal wave floods, between November 1,
1968, and J u n e 30, 1969, if application therefor is made by October 1, 1969.
    Specifies that such funds allocated to local agencies may be expended, if the local
agency so elects, for repair, restoration or replacement of a public building to pres-
ent day standards if the building's square footage is not increased thereby.
   Provides t h a t whenever the Department of Finance determines t h a t a local agency
to which such funds are proposed to be allocated is financially unable to meet
certain matching requirements due to exhaustion of its financial resources because of
disaster expenditures, the Department of Finance may allocate funds to pay all or
such portion of the costs of repair, restoration, or replacement as is determined to be
necessary to accomplish the project.
    Makes certain money in the Street and Highway Disaster Fund available for al-
location by the State Allocation Board, under the Emergency Flood Belief Law, for
repair or restoration of local streets, roads, or bridges damaged or destroyed by
storm and flood or flood conditions, including tidal wave flood conditions, occurring
between November 1, 1968, and June 30, 1969.
    Bevises formula used to determine allocations which may be made under the
Emergency Flood Belief Law.
    Bequires specified agreement executed by a local agency to contain a provision
under which the local agency agrees to hold and save the state free from damages
due to the work under the Emergency Flood Belief Law for which funds are
allocated.
    Provides that whenever the Department of Finance determines t h a t a local agency
 to which such Street and Highway Disaster Fund money is proposed to be allocated
 is financially unable to meet certain matching requirements due to exhaustion of its
financial resources because of disaster expenditures, the State Allocation Board may
 allocate funds to pay such portion of the costs of repair or restoration a s the de-
 partment determines is necessary to accomplish the work, subject to certain limita-
 tions.
    Bequires Department of Finance to make available, in such installments and
 at such times as determined to be necessary by the department, $2,692,250 of the
 cash balance of certain money in the Street and Highway Disaster Fund, plus addi-
16                  I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

tional amounts thereof determined to be not immediately needed for state highway
disaster repair or restoration, for allocation by the State Allocation Board for
the repair or restoration of local streets, roads or bridges damaged or destroyed by
any disaster, when Legislature authorizes allocations for such repair or restoration.
Specifies that such amounts are not required to be repaid.
    Increases motor vehicle fuel and use taxes one cent per gallon for 6 months or
until the Governor proclaims that such tax increase is no longer needed, and makes
this increased revenue available: 8 0 % for allocation for the repair, restoration, or
replacement of any local street, road, or bridge which has been damaged or destroyed
by storm and flood or flood conditions occurring between November 1, 1968, and
J u n e 30, 1969; and 2 0 % for the repair, restoration, or replacement of state highways
damaged or destroyed by such storm and flood or flood conditions.
    Provides that any local agency to which the state has advanced money for speci-
fied purposes prior to the effective date of the act need not repay any of the
amount so advanced which is outstanding and has, on the effective date of the act,
not been repaid.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 53 ( S B 129) COLOGNE Amends various sees., B . & P.O., re business
    and professions.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 54 ( S B 154) LAGOMAKSINO Amends and repeals various sees.,                  P.R.C.,
    re public resources.
  Codification to maintain the code; makes no substantive changes.
Ch. 55 ( S B 210) S H O R T Amends Sec. 101, F . & G.C., re fish and game
    commission.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 56 ( A B 1) B A D H A M Amends Sec. 10664, adds Sees. 10907 and 10908, F .
      & G.C., re marine life refuges.
   Establishes the Dana Point and Doheny Beach Marine Life Refuges of designated
area.
   Authorizes the taking in such refuges, under the authority of a sport fishing
license, of certain designated fish, mollusks, and crustaceans and prohibits taking
any other fish or form of aquatic life except under permit from the Department of
Fish and Game.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 57 (AB 45) C U L L E N Adds Sec. 3576, P.U.C., re carriers: permit applica-
     tion fees.
  Allows any person who in good faith filed an application for and received a city
carrier permit subsequent to January 1, 1968, to apply to have such permit con-
verted to a radial highway common carrier permit or a highway contract carrier
permit without payment of an additional application fee or, if such person already
possesses a radial highway common carrier permit or a highway contract carrier
permit, allows him to apply for a refund of the fee paid for the city carrier permit.
Allows holder of a city carrier permit who was required to obtain another permit
in lieu thereof to apply for a refund of the filing fee paid for the city carrier permit.
   Specifies that the Public Utilities Commission shall make refunds out of specified
moneys when applied for.
  Repeals these provisions on February 1, 1970.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 58 ( A B 414) W A K E F I E L D Amends Sec. 12804, Veh.C, re motor vehicle
     drivers' licenses.
  Permits the Department of Motor Vehicles to accept a certificate of competence
in lieu of a driving test, as required for a driver's license for any two-wheel motor-
cycle, when such certificate is issued by a law enforcement agency for its officers who
operate such motorcycles in their duties, provided other examination requirements
are met for the license.
Ch. 59 ( S B 203) M I L L S     Amends Sec. 206.7, Civ.C, re public assistance.
  Corrects cross-references.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           17
Ch. 60 ( S B 606) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 24001, Gov.C, re juvenile probation.
   Permits board of supervisors of any county that is consolidated with a city to
hire a chief juvenile probation officer who does not meet the state and county
residency requirement of existing law.
  In effect immediately.
Oh. 61 (AB 143) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 18Q3.2, Civ.C, re retail installment
    contracts: contents.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 62 (AB 151) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 892.6, E d . C , re educational television.
   Includes a school district library district formed under specified provisions in
term "school district" for purposes of section relating to contracts for television for
school and community educational programs.
   Authorizes governing board of any school district or county superintendent of
schools to purchase broadcast time from, and to own, lease, and operate, television
transmitting facilities for use in instructional and teachers' in-service educational
services from nonprofit corporations operating educational television stations, as
well as from such facilities operated by other school districts or county superin-
tendent of schools.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 63. (AB 281) C H A P P I E Amends and adds various sees., W a t . C , re irriga-
     tion district assessments.
   W i t h regard to optional alternative procedure for irrigation district land assess-
ment and collection of district assessments by the county, authorizes lands subject
to sale for unpaid assessments to be sold to the state. Requires district's resolu-
tions proposing and providing for alternative procedure to specify whether, under
the procedure, such lands shall be sold to the district or to. the state, and requires
such resolution to be filed with the State Board of Equalization.
   Requires statement and map or plat filed by district utilizing such alternative
assessment procedure in accordance with specified provisions of law, to set forth
the boundaries of any portion of the district in which tax rate is to differ from
other portions of the district.
Ch. 64 (AB 290) C R A N D A L L Amends Sec. 899, P e n . C , re grand juror selec-
     tion.
  Authorizes selection of names for grand jury list from the different supervisorial
districts of counties in specified proportion, rather than only 1 from the different
wards or judicial districts of counties in such proportion.
Ch. 65 (AB 392) F E N T O N Amends Sec. 4702, Lab.C., re workman's compensa-.
     tion.
   Provides that computation of death benefits made pursuant to provisions relating
to death benefits and disability indemnity shall be made only with reference to
death resulting from an original injury sustained after Section 4702 of the Labor
Code, as amended during the 1968 First Extraordinary Session of the Legislature,
becomes effective, rather than such computation being made with reference to
injuries sustained after Section 4702, as amended during the 1959 Regular Session
of the Legislature, became effective.
   In effect  immediately.
Ch. 66 (AB 874) L A N T E R M A N New act, re appropriation for Emergency
    Fund.
  Appropriates $3,786,631 in augmentation of Item 263, Budget Act of 1968.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 67 (SB 21) S H E R M A N Adds Sec. 1803.5, Prob.C., re conservators: bonds.
  Permits conservators, in lieu of executing a surety bond, to file in like amount
with the clerk of court a cash bond, or an assigned interest in an account or ac-
counts in a bank or an insured savings and loan association, or by the posting of
bearer or endorsed bonds of the United States or the state.
 18                  I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

 Ch. 68 ( S B 130) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 11910 and 12887.1, W a t . C , and
     repeals Ch. 9 (commencing with Sec. 12945), P t . 6, Div. 6, Wat.C., as added by
     Ch. 991, Stats. 1965, re water resources.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
 Ch. 69 ( S B 206) G R U N S K Y Amends Sec. 4179.3, H . & S.C., re districts:
       compensation of officers.
    Provides compensation for members of board of garbage and refuse disposal dis-
 trict, who are not full-time public employees, up to $25 per meeting but no more
 than $75 per month.
    Provides chairman and secretary of such board, who are not such employees, re-
 ceive $50 per month in lieu of any other compensation.
    Effective until the 91st day after the final adjournment of the 1971 Regular
 Session.
 Ch. 70 ( S B 227) G R U N S K Y Amends Sees. 71665.6, 71675, Gov.C, re fees,
      justice courts.
   Raises fees for certain writs, and for abstract of judgment, in justice courts from
 $1 to $1.50.
Ch. 71 ( S B 230) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 71510, 72687, 72709, adds Sec.
     71281, W a t . C , re municipal water districts.
  Permits district board to make certain codes applicable to the district.
  Provides that district election for directors shall not be held if there are insufficient
nominees on the 74th day, rather than the 65th day, prior to the election.
  Provides that taxable property in areas annexed to district will be taxed as if they
had always been in the district only if the terms and conditions of annexation so
provide, rather than in every case.
Ch. 72 ( S B 289) D A N I E L S O N Adds Sec. 13460.5, E d . C , re sabbatical leaves.
   Authorizes the serving of the required 2 years of service after a sabbatical leave
by a public school teacher when the unified school district in which he is employed
is divided into a junior college district and a unified school district in either or both
of such districts.
Ch. 73 ( A B 11) LEROY F . G R E E N E Repeals Sec. 281, H . & S.C, re new-
     born children: medical tests.
   Removes 1969 termination date of the law which provides that newborn children
shall be subject to diagnostic tests prescribed by the Department of Public Health
for preventable heritable disorders leading to mental retardation or physical defects,
including, but not limited to, phenylketonuria.
Ch. 74 ( A B 68) D E N T Adds Sees. 12718.1, 12718.2, 12718.3, W a t . C , re flood
      control.
   Adopts and authorizes project for flood control on Alhambra Creek in Contra
Costa County in accordance with congressional action at such estimated cost as may
be appropriated for cooperation by the Legislature upon recommendation by the
Department of Water Resources. Specifies that this authorization shall not be
deemed to confer preference on this project over needs of other statewide programs
in appropriations of available funds.
   Requires the Contra Costa County Flood Control and Water Conservation Dis-
trict to give assurances to the Secretary of Army of local cooperation and to execute
plans for project in cooperation with the Department of the Army.
Ch. 75 (AB 587) CONRAD Amends Sec. 49, Elec.C, re war voters.
   Extends war voter provisions to cover citizens of U.S. temporarily residing out-
side U.S. and their spouses or dependents to conform to federal law.
Ch. 76 ( A B 1086) B R I T S C H G I Adds Sec. 62708.5, Ag.C, re milk equalization
     pools.
  Redefines producer-distributor for the purposes of m,ilk equalization pools. Declares
that the change in the definition of producer-distributor is a nonsubstantive change.
  In effect immediately.
                   1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                               19
Ch. 77 (SB 144) MOSOONE Amends Sec. 21113, Veh.C, re * traffic reg-
       ulations.
   Makes provision prohibiting parking or stopping of vehicles or animals on desig-
nated public premises unless in accordance with the conditions and regulations estab-
lished by the governing board or officer thereof applicable to a state, county, hospi-
tal district, or municipal airport, as well as to a state, county, hospital district, or
municipal institution or building.
Ch. 78 (SB 169) KENNICK Amends Sec. 8214.1, Gov.C, re qualifications for
    notaries public.
  Removes authorization of Secretary of State to deny, revoke or suspend a com-
mission as a notary public on grounds of bankruptcy.
Oh. 79 (SB 199) DANIELSON Adds Art. 1.6 (commencing with Sec. 4430),
     Ch. 4, Part 2, Div. 5, H. & S.C., re pollution by vessels.
  Defines "navigable waters" and prohibits putting any human excreta in or upon
navigable waters of this state which are within any marina, yacht harbor, fresh
water lake, or fresh water impoundment, from any vessel tied to a dock, slip, or
wharf, that has toilet facilities available for the use of persons on such vessel.
Makes any violation a misdemeanor.
  Declares that legislative intent is not to preempt the field of pollution by vessels
and not to prohibit any city, county, or district having the power to regulate,
pollution by vessels to enact and enforce an ordinance stricter than state law re
pollution by vessels.
Ch. 80 (SB 207) GRUNSKY Amends Sees. 12701 and 12741, B. & P.O.,
     re weighmasters: exclusions.
   Excludes employees of garbage and refuse disposal districts authorized to weigh
garbage and refuse from regulation as public or private weighmasters when per-
forming such duties.
Ch. 81 (SB 274) STIERN Amends Sec. 254.5, R. & T.C., re property tax
    exemptions.
  Extends from June 1, to June 15, date no later than which the State Board of
Equalization must forward to the assessor its findings with respect to eligibility of
applicant for welfare exemption from property taxation in cases where the board
conducts a hearing.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 82 (AB 248) DAVIS Amends Sec. 6, and adds Sec. 21.5, Lassen-Modoc
     County Flood Control and Water Conservation District Act (Ch. 2127, Stats.
     1959), re Lassen-Modoc flood control.
  Authorizes Lassen-Modoc County Flood Control and Water Conservation District
to acquire authority to proceed with a project which consists of a contract with
the United States for a water supply from a proposed federal reclamation project
at any time after a report of the Secretary of the Interior on the proposed project
has been transmitted to the state for its written views and comments.
   Authorizes district board, where the proposal for the creation of a zone or zones
for such a project is successful, to levy a tax in the zone or zones for the purpose
of paying any expenses incurred by the district to formulate and present its plan
justifying construction of the proposed federal reclamation project.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 83 (AB 338) DENT Adds Sec. 31671.7, Gov.C, re county retirement.
  Permits member who is an elective constable who becomes a nonelective marshal
or deputy marshal to remain a member for the uncompleted elective term despite
attainment of mandatory retirement age.
   * Takes effect only if adopted by Board of Supervisors. Inoperative after Dec. 31,
1972. Applies to any person who was a constable on Jan. 1, 1969.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 84 (AB 351) BIDDLE New act, re property tax exemptions.
   Establishes procedures for claiming the welfare exemption from property taxa-
tion for the 1968-1969 fiscal year for property otherwise eligible therefor, except
* Correction.
20                 I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

that on the lien date in 1968 the articles of Incorporation of the nonprofit corpora-
tion owning such property did not contain a statement of irrevocable dedication.
Provides for a refund or cancellation of tax for the 1968-1969 fiscal year, if the
procedures are followed.
Ch. 85 (AB 501) HARVEY JOHNSON Amends Sec. 594, C.C.P., re notice of
     trial.
  Provides that adverse party who serves notice of trial and is then absent from
the trial is deemed to have had notice of trial required for purposes of remedies
available to party present at the trial.
Ch. 86 (AB 2344) MILIAS Amends Sec. 32, Ch. 1, Stats. 1968 First Ex. Sess.,
     re homeowner's property tax exemption.
   Extends time for filing claims for homeowner's exemption from property taxa-
tion for the 1968-1960 and the 1969-1970 fiscal years from April 15, 1969, to May
23, 1969, and extends the time at which county assessors must mail a supple-
mental list of claimants entitled to such exemption to the Controller and the time
at which the Controller makes $70 payments to claimants on the supplemental list.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 87 (AB 425) HARVEY JOHNSON Amends Sees. 660, 664.5, and 667a,
     C.C.P., re entry of judgment notice.
   Provides that power of court to rule on a motion for new trial shall expire 60
days after mailing of notice of entry of judgment by court clerk or 60 days after
service on moving party by any party of written notice of entry of judgment,
whichever is earlier, or if no such notice given then 60 days after filing notice of
intention to move for new trial, rather than only that such power of court expires
60 days after service on moving party of written notice of entry of judgment or
if no such notice is served then 60 days after filing notice of intention to move for
new trial.
   Requires court clerk to execute and file a certificate, rather than an affidavit,
of mailing notice of entry of judgment.
 Ch. 88 (SB 153) MARKS Amends Sec. 224, adds Sec. 271.4, R. & T.O.,
      re property tax exemption.
  Declares personal effects and household furnishings of any person in excess of
amount permitted pursuant to constitutional provision, rather than in excess of
$100, to be exempt from taxation; deletes definition of "householder."
   Requires cancellation or refund of 75 percent of any tax and all of any penalty
or interest on the total tax for any fiscal year commencing in 1968 on property
acquired after lien date but prior to October 5, 1968, such property being otherwise
qualified for the church exemption. Application for exemption must be filed on or
before 30 days after enactment.
  Provides for cancellation of tax and interest or penalty thereon in the proportidn
that the number of days during a fiscal year that property acquired after the begin-
ning of such fiscal year was qualified for the college, cemetery, church, exhibition,
orphanage, or welfare exemption bears to 365, for any fiscal year, as to which
such exemption would have been available if the property had been owned by the
qualified organization on the lien date, whether or not such organization was in
existence on the lien date. Application for such exemption must be filed on or before
March 1st or the calendar year next succeeding the calendar year in which the
property was acquired.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 89 (SB 178) GRUNSKY Amends Sec. 17, Ch. 1598, Stats. 1953, re San
     Benito County flood control.
   Permits money collected in one zone of the San Benito County Water Conserva-
tion and Flood Control District to be loaned to another zone of the district for
establishing that zone or for meeting costs and expenses for the benefit of that
zone. Permits money collected in benefited zone to be used to repay such loans.
Ch. 90 (SB 238) SHORT Amends Sec. 565, Veh.C, re special construction
     equipment.
   Substitutes for "caterpillar tractors" "track-type tractors" and "crawler tractors"
in the provision defining "special construction equipment."
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          21
Ch. 91 (SB 308) S H O R T Amends Sec. 22356, Veh.C, re vehicle speed limits.
   Specifies that provision authorizing maximum speed limit of 70 miles per hour on
freeways upon the basis of engineering and traffic survey applies only to existing
freeway segments and newly constructed freeway segments shall be upon the basis
of appropriate design standards and projected traffic volumes.
   Makes other technical changes.
Oh. 92 ( S B 356) B R A D L E Y Amends Sec. 31, Santa Clara County Flood
    Control and W a t e r District Act (Ch. 1405, Stats. 1951), re Santa Clara County
    District.
 Revises provisions governing disposal of district property.
Ch. 93 (SB 530) R O D D A New act, re kindergarten: average daily attend-
     ance.
  Requires school districts maintaining a kindergarten to report separately on
second period and fiscal year attendance reports, the days of attendance for specified
types of single-session kindergarten classes maintained after November 13, 1968.
   Provides for adjustment of such days of attendance for purposes of computing
average daily attendance of district.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 94 ( S B 611) COOMBS Adds Sec. 24050, B . & P.O., re alcoholic beverage
    licenses.
  Permits Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, for specified period of time, to
extend on-sale general licenses for seasonal business in areas declared to be disaster
areas by the Governor.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 95 (AB 92) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 33445, H . & S.C., re redevelopment
      agency contracts.
   Authorizes a redevelopment agency to enter into contracts with the community
or other public corporation under which it agrees to reimburse the community or
other public corporation for all or p a r t of the value of land or cost of a building,
facility, structure or other improvement, or both, which has been, or will be initially
paid or provided for the community or other public corporation, by periodic pay-
ments over a period of years.
   Permits, if the subject matter of the contract has been acquired by, or the cost
has been paid for, by some other public entity for the purpose of leasing it to
the community, the contract to be made with, and reimbursement made payable
to, the community.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 96 (AB 152) MOBLEY Amends Sees. 4653.4, 4655, 4655.2, 4655.4, adds.
      Ch. Id (commencing with Sec. 4658), P t . 8, Div. 1, R. & T.C., re property
      tax distribution.
   Provides that taxes on property on secured roll be distributed to each fund on
basis of rate established for current secured roll on which they are charged and
in same proportion that tax rate for each fund bears to total applicable rate,
rather than being distributed to the funds for which they were levied.
   Provides method for distributing taxes on the delinquent unsecured property tax
roll.
   Provides that accrued legal interest paid on judgments for recovery of unpaid
property taxes rendered by courts shall be distributed to county general fund.
  To become operative July 1, 1970.
Ch. 97 (AB 277) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 71140.1, Gov.C, re court attaches.
  Permits municipal court attaches to reside permanently in counties adjoining
the county in which they are employed rather than only temporarily.
Ch. 98 (AB 418) SCHABARUM Amends Sees. 10150, 10460, 10515, 10602,
     B. & P.C., re licenses.
  Eliminates requirement that application for license as real estate broker and as
mineral, oil and gas broker be accompanied with recommendations from two real
estate owners of the county in which applicant resides or has his place of business
22                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

certifying t h a t applicant is honest, truthful, and of good reputation and recommend
that license be granted to him, and deletes related provision.
   Includes members of the United States Air Force within definition of "persons
in the military service of the United States" for purposes of qualification as military
licensee under Real Estate Law.
Oh. 99 ( A B 590) BADHAM Repeals Sec. 9816, B . & P.O., re electronic repair
     dealers.
   Deletes provision in the Electronic Repair Dealer Registration Law which requires
the Director of Professional and Vocational Standards, during the month of Decem-
ber prior to each general session of the Legislature, to submit to the Governor a
full and accurate report of the activities of the Bureau of Electronic Repair Dealer
Registration.
Ch. 100 ( A B 624) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 30700.6, W a t . C , re county water dis-
      tricts.
    Requires voters in Sierra Lakes County W a t e r District to be owners of real
property in district and specifies voters need not be district residents. Specifies
voting rights of multiple owners. Authorizes voters or specified legal representatives
to vote at district elections either in person or by proxy appointed as specified.
Provides procedure for conduct of district elections. Specifies incumbent directors of
district need not be voters until they have served out the term for which they were
elected.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 101 ( A B 900) QUIMBY Amends Sec. 25458, Gov.C, re emergency repairs,
     county property.
   Authorizes county board of supervisors to waive specified requirement for con-
tractors to file good and sufficient bond for work performed for board pursuant to
its authority to replace or repair structures in cases of great emergency.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 102 ( A B 268) B A R N E S Amends Sec. 335.4, Wat.C., re San Diego beach
     erosion.
   Permits state funds appropriated for the San Diego (Sunset Cliffs) Beach Ero-
sion Control Project to be expended prior to the appropriation of construction
funds for such project by the Congress.
Ch. 103 ( S B 226) B R A D L E Y Adds Sec. 1314, I n s . C , re reciprocal insurers.
   Authorizes prescribed reciprocal or interinsurance exchanges to issue policy of
assigned risk insurance without requiring insured to become member of or subscribe
to such reciprocal or interinsurance exchange.
   Grants attorney-in-fact, agent, or other representatives duly authorized and acting
for regular subscribers of such exchange same power and authority to act for
assigned risk insured as is authorized or required under prescribed documents re-
quired to be filed with the commissioner.
Ch. 104 ( S B 269) H A R M E R Amends Sec. 660, I n s . C , re insurance: motor-
     cycles.
   Includes motorcycles within scope of provisions relating to cancellation or failure
to renew automobile insurance policies.
Ch. 105 ( S B 479) S H O R T Amends Sees. 383.5, 10291.5, 10293, and 11580.2,
    I n s . C , re insurance.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 106 ( A B 98) H A Y E S Adds Sees. 11835 and 29227, amends Sees. 11800
     and 11801, Elec.C, re petitions and measures.
  Makes it a crime for a person to misappropriate any money or thing of value in
an initiative, referendum, or recall campaign or campaign on a ballot measure.
Declares that money raised to promote such campaigns cannot be used to pay per-
sonal expenses. Enumerates lawful expenses.
  Extends disclosure of expense provisions governing any measure to include any
initiative, referendum and recall petition required to be filed with the Secretary of
State which does not qualify for the ballot, in addition to those that qualify.
  Requires that statement of expenses for petitions which do not qualify for the
ballot be filed within 35 days after final deadline for circulation.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                             23
Ch. 107 (AB 154) MOBLEY Amends Sees. 29802 and 29851, Gov.C, re pay-
     ment of warrants.
  Makes void all warrants, rather than only w a r r a n t s issued for certain payments
to the needy, not presented for payment to county treasurer within six months
unless ordinance provides otherwise. Deletes contrary provisions. Reduces time
for application for new w a r r a n t from five years to two years. Adds provision
that governing body of agency issuing w a r r a n t may by resolution authorize auditor
to issue new warrants under certain limitations. Reduces from two years to six
months the time within which such new w a r r a n t must be presented for payment.
Makes such changes effective July 1, 1970, as to w a r r a n t s issued on or after t h a t
date.
   Provides that photocopy, together with hold harmless agreement, may be presented
by county treasurer's clearing bank in event of loss or destruction of w a r r a n t .
Ch. 108 (AB 316) B A D H A M Adds Sec. 1245, B . & P.C., re blood tests.
  Permits any individual to perform a blood gas analysis if he performs such anal-
ysis in a hospital, he has been instructed by a physician in charge of a hospital
department of pulmonary physiology or clinical pathology in the proper procedure
to be employed when making such an analysis, he performs the analysis under the
direction and supervision of such a physician, and he submits the analysis for in-
terpretation to the physician under whose direction and supervision he performed
the analysis.
   To be operative until December 31, 1971.
Ch. 109 ( A B 435) QUIMBY Amends Sees. 18, 19, 22, and 29 and adds Sec.
     19.5, Crestline-Lake Arrowhead W a t e r Agency Act (Ch. 40, Stats. 1962, 1st E x .
     Sess.), re Crestline-Lake Arrowhead W a t e r Agency.
   Raises maximum rate of interest that can be paid on bonds of the Crestline-
Lake Arrowhead W a t e r Agency, or an improvement district thereof, from 5 percent
to 7 percent.
   Limits maximum tax rate provision to purposes other than raising moneys needed
for payment of principal and interest on bonds, rather than being applicable in all
cases unless an election is held.
   Permits agency to issue without an election bonds in an amount not exceeding
unissued balance of the principal amount of bonds authorized a t an election held,
prior to J u n e 16, 1965, if the bonds are issued for the same purpose as the un-
issued bonds. Provides t h a t such bonds may bear interest at not to exceed 7 per-
cent and requires cancellation of equivalent amount of previously unissued bonds,
Ch. 110 ( A B 353) D A V I S Amends Sec. 221, F . & G.C., re fish and game com-
      mission.
   Extends from 91st day after 1969 Regular Session to 91st day after 1973
Regular Session, the statutory provisions vesting so-called plenary regulatory au-
thority in Fish and Game Commission concerning taking of fish and game.
   Deletes obsolete provisions.
   Authorizes commission to hold a special meeting in May or J u n e of 1969 to re-
consider and revise regulations in regard to bag limits and seasons for sport
fishing on salmon.
   In effect immediately.
 Ch. I l l   ( S B 50) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 28051, adds Sec. 28052, V e h . C , re
      motor vehicles.
    Eliminates provisions exempting the disconnecting of odometer of new motor
 vehicle in specified instances from prohibition making it unlawful to disconnect, turn
 back, or reset a motor vehicle odometer with intent to reduce indicated mileage.
    Specifies that, for purposes of warranty on a new motor vehicle based on amount
 of miles driven, only those miles driven on and after date such vehicle was first sold
 as new to purchaser shall be considered for purposes of warranty. Specifies that mile-
 age warranty period for new motor vehicle shall commence with mileage indicated
 on such vehicle's odometer on date vehicle is first sold as new to purchaser. Specifies
 that such warranty provisions shall apply only to- motor vehicles which a r e sold
 on or after effective date of act.
24                  1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 112 ( S B 86) COOMBS Amends Sec. 2860.5, B . & P.O., re licensed vo-
     cational nurses.
  Permits a licensed vocational nurse when directed by a physician or surgeon to
withdraw blood from a patient for the purpose of testing, if prior thereto such nurse
has been instructed by a physician and surgeon and has demonstrated compe-
tence to such physician and surgeon in the proper procedure to be employed when
withdrawing blood. Deletes requirement that such withdrawal take place in a hos-
pital.
Ch. 113 ( S B 99) SONG Amends Sec. 860, Civ.C, re powers: execution—muk
     tiple holders.
  Authorizes execution of a power held by several persons when one or more of
them either is legally incapable of exercising the power or releases the power, as
well as when one or more of them dies, by the others unless otherwise prescribed by
the terms of the power.
Ch. 114 ( S B 102) SONG Amends Sec. 2469.2, Civ.C, re fictitious name cer-
      tificates.
   Provides for expiration on January 1, 1972, of certificate of business fictitious
name filed with county clerk before J a n u a r y 1, 1967, unless renewal certificate is
filed not later than December 31, 1971.
Ch. 115 ( S B 105) SONG Amends Sec. 662.5, C.C.P., re civil cases; new trials.
   Eliminates provision that a verdict of a jury on the issue of damages be supported
by substantial evidence before a court can in its discretion subject the granting of
a motion for a new trial on the issue of inadequacy of damages to the condition
that such motion for new trial is denied if the defendant consents to an increase in
the damages award as determined by the court.
  Makes technical, related changes.
Ch. 116 ( S B 205) GRTJNSKY Repeals Sees. 10655, 10656, 10834, and 10839,
    F . & G.C., re game refuges.
  Abolishes game refuge 3B in San Benito and Monterey Counties.
  Deletes provisions establishing Huntington Lake Game Refuge and eliminates
provisions on the possession of firearms and to the possession of birds and mam-
mals in the refuge.
Ch. 117 ( S B 232) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 11171, W. & I.C., re public assist-
     ance.
   Authorizes a county welfare department to contract with a city, county, or city
and county agency, a local health district or with an individual under exceptional
circumstances in addition to a voluntary nonprofit agency for homemaker services.
Ch. 118 ( S B 248) GRTJNSKY Adds Sec. 869.5, P e n . C , re preliminary exam-
     ination proceedings: transcriptions.
   Provides that, upon request of judge, district attorney shall make original
transcript of preliminary examination available to judge reasonable time in advance
of any motion or other proceeding relating to accusation.
Ch. 119 ( S B 282) RODDA Amends Sec. 19594, E d . C , re state school build-
     ing aid.
   Validates certain final apportionments of state school building aid based on con-
ditional apportionments made prior to the 61st day after final adjournment of the
i969 Regular Session, rather than the 61st day after final adjournment of the 1968
Regular Session.
Ch. 120 ( S B 288) COOMBS Amends Sec. 182, Civ.C, re marriage.
   Declares that prescribed alliances by members of Indian tribes, bands, or groups
entered into prior to 1958 are deemed valid marriages for the purpose of de-
termining the validity of a marriage under the laws of this state and for the pur-
pose of application of the laws of succession to a decedent who prior to 1958
entered into such an alliance, rather than to a decendent who died prior to Septem-
ber 11, 1958.
                   I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                               25

Ch. 121 (SB 298) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 11018.7, B & P.C., re subdivisions.
  Limits period of time within which subdivider must obtain consent of Real
Estate Commissioner for any material change in any document transferring or
controlling an interest in planned development, community apartment project, con-
dominium project, or stock cooperative to three years after date subdivider ceases
to hold or directly control 4 of votes that may be cast to *effect such change.
Ch. 122 (SB 383) COLOGNE Amends, amends and renumbers, and repeals
    various sees., Gov.C, re government.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Gh. 123 (AB 104) PATTEE Amends, * adds and repeals various sees., R. &
      T.C., *and Statutes other than codes, re property tax exemption.
   Gives applicants for the welfare exemption from property taxation until the next
succeeding lien date, rather than a period of 6 months, to amend their articles, by-
laws, articles of association, constitution or regulations and to file a certified copy
thereof with the board in order to conform to the law and qualify for the exemption.
   Deletes various statutes relating to property tax exemptions but provides that the
rights of any party who has claimed a cancellation or refund pursuant to any
law repealed by this act prior to the 61st day following the final adjournment of the
1969 Regular Session shall not be affected.
   Allows, under certain circumstances, benefits of welfare exemption for fiscal
year 1968-69 to nonprofit corporations which would otherwise have qualified therefor,
except that the articles of incorporation did not provide for irrevocable dedication
of corporate property to charitable, scientific, religious or hospital purposes. Speci-
fies that enactment of this section shall remain in effeet until March 1, 1970.
   Revises law with respect to procedures for claiming various exemptions from
property taxation under various circumstances.
   Provides for cancellation or refund of property taxes imposed for any fiscal year
commencing in 1965 on property as to which the welfare exemption would have been
available, if the property had been acquired earlier. Application must be made on
or before March 1, 1970.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 124 (AB 173) MOORHEAD Amends Sees. 380, 384, and 1080, Prob.C., re,
     will contests and probate distribution.
  Changes time periods prescribed for purposes of will contests from six montha-
to four months after probate or after disability of specified persons is removed, as
the case may be. Changes time period for filing petition to determine who is entitled
to distribution of estate from four months to two months after first publication
of notice to creditors.
  Applies only to contests after probate where, the will has been admitted to pro-
bate on or after effective date of act, and only to petitions to determine who is
entitled to distribution of estate in probate proceedings in which first publication
of notice to creditors occurs on or after effective date of act.
Ch. 125 (AB 175) QUIMBY Amends Sees. 3069, 3073, Civ.C, re liens on
     vehicles.
   Restricts assignment of any possessory lien on vehicle for compensation for re-
pairs, labor, materials, storage, safekeeping and trailer parking space rental, to
one only for labor or materials or for storage or safekeeping of vehicle when aban-
doned on private property. Provides that written notice of an assignment be given
by lienholder to registered and legal owner of vehicle either by personal delivery or
registered mail as at present, or by certified mail.
   Increases from $100 to $200 the * maximum value of any vehicle on which there is
possessory lien for compensation for repairs, labor, materials, storage, safekeeping
and trailer parking space rental, that may be sold at public sale in satisfaction of
lien. Provides for notifying legal owner, registered owner, and Department of Motor
Vehicles of sale by certified mail or by U.S. Post Office certificate of mailing, as well
as by such present alternatives as registered mail or registered mail with return
receipt requested.
* Correction.
26                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 126 (AB 194) * BAGLBY Amends Sec. 11003.3, K.&T.C, re motor ve-
     hicle license fees.
   Provides for transfer of remainder of amount reported to have been paid for
trailer coach fees, after deducting therefrom the amount appropriated for the use
of the Department of Motor Vehicles to a special account in the General Fund,
rather than requiring disbursement of such remainder to county auditors. Appro-
priates money in special account
                           x
                                    to the Controller for disbursement to county au-
ditors.
   Provides that money disbursed to a county auditor and disbursed by him to the
eounty or a city may be used for county or city purposes, and may, but need not,
be used for purposes of general interest and benefit to the state.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 12T (AB 195) BAGLBY Amends Sec. 11005, R. & T.C., re motor vehicle
     license fees.
   Provides that specified sums in the Motor Vehicle License Fee Fund be trans-
ferred to the credit of a special account in the General Fund for disbursement by
the State Controller to counties and cities, rather than having such sums being
disbursed by the Controller from the Motor Vehicle License Fee Fund.
   Permits cities and counties to use such funds for city and county purposes,,
rather than requiring that such funds be used solely for purposes of general interest
and benefit to the state.
   Declares that there is no implied obligation on the part of the state to make-
replacement revenue available to cities and cities and counties for law enforcement,
the regulation and control and fire protection of highway traffic in the amendment
to Section 11005.
   In effect immediately,
Ch. 128 (AB 196) * BAGLEY Amends Sec. 30462, R. & T.C.; repeals Sec. 2,
     Ch. 543, 1968 Stats, and Sec. 151, Ch. 963, 1967 Stats., re cigarette taxes.
   Provides for transfer to the credit of a special account in the General Fund
from the Cigarette Tax Fund, 30 percent of the money in such fund, to be dis-
bursed by the State Controller to the cities and counties of the state, rather
than the Controller allocating 30 percent of the money in the Cigarette Tax Fund
to the cities and counties of the state. Permits such funds to be used for city and
eounty purposes rather than requiring that such funds be used solely for purposes
of general interest to the state.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 129 (AB 285) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 43015, Gov.C, Sec. 155.15,
     R. & T.C, re disaster relief.
   Establishes procedures for the assessment or reassessment of any taxable prop-
erty damaged or destroyed between March 1, 1969, and May 15, 1969, by a major
misfortune or calamity occurring prior to May 1, 1969, in an area or region de-
clared by the Governor to be in a state of disaster and provides procedures for
such assessment or reassessment. Makes provisions applicable only for valuations
for ad valorem tax purposes for fiscal year 1969-1970. Specifies that the enactment
shall only apply to property damaged in an amount more than $1,000.
  Amends provisions providing for reassessment of such damaged or destroyed
property for the 1968-1969 fiscal year to conform the treatment of property on the
unsecured roll with the treatment accorded property on the secured roll.
  Requires county auditors to certify all reductions in assessed values caused by
certain major misfortunes or calamities during the 1968-1969 assessment year to the
State Superintendent of Public Instruction by June 25, 1969, and requires the
superintendent to recompute state equalization aid, supplemental support and trans-
portation allowances for the 1968-1969 fiscal year and to pay additional aid, if
any, to districts.
  Provides that "major misfortune or calamity," as used with respect to property
damaged or destroyed between March 1, 1969, and May 15, 1969, does not include
any damage to property caused by an oil leak originating from offshore drilling
operations.
  In effect immediately.
* Correction.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           27

Ch. 130 ( A B 305) K N O X Adds Sec. 4804, R. & T.C., re county officers.
  Authorizes a board of supervisors to delegate certain functions relating to the
administration of the property tax to other county officials.
Ch. 131 (AB 310) M A C D O N A L D Repeals Sees. 7351.5, 7653, R. & T.C., re
     motor vehicle fuel taxes.
  Repeals provisions requiring certain persons storing 1,000 gallons or more of
fuel on June 1, 1969, on which a gas tax of not more than 7 cents h a s been
paid, to pay an additional tax of 1 cent per gallon and requiring a 1-cent refund
per gallon to certain persons storing 1,000 gallons or more of such fuel, on which
an 8-cent tax has been paid, a t the time the gas tax reverts to 7 cents a gallon
because sufficient funds are available to restore streets and highways damaged by
storms and floods.
  In effect immediately.
Oh.   132 ( A B 315) M U L F O R D Amends Sec. 35401, adds Sees. 25805, 26307,
    Veh.C, re vehicle requirements.
  Adds to the combinations of vehicles whose total length may exceed 60 feet but
may not exceed 65 feet, specified vehicles.
  Requires that a forklift truck which is towed upon the highway a t the end of a
combination of vehicles be equipped with specified lamps in the prescribed manner.
  Prohibits the towing of a forklift truck manufactured after J a n u a r y 1, 1970,
unless it is equipped with specified brakes which meet specified conditions.
Ch. 133 (AB 336) K E T C H U M Adds Sec. 450, Veh.C, re oil well service units.
    Defines "oil well production service unit."
Ch. 134 ( A B 343) K N O X Amends Sees. 545, 714, 717, C.C.P., r e court
     processes: attachments, executions.
  Specifies, with respect to provisions requiring defendant (attachments) or judg-
ment debtor (executions), or debtors or holders of property of such defendant or
judgment debtor, to appear and answer concerning debts or property of such de-
fendant or judgment debtor, that the judge may, pursuant to a w a r r a n t , have
such defendant, judgment debtor, debtor, or holder of property brought before court
to answer for failure to appear as required, if order requiring appearance was
served by sheriff, constable, marshal, or some person specially appointed by court
in order.
Ch. 135 ( A B 358) B B L O T T 1 Amends Sec. 4374, P.R.C., re flammables around
     rubbish dumps.
   Requires a rubbish dump maintained in a fireproof container used primarily for
transport for final disposition of rubbish to maintain a minimum clearance ofr
flammable material for a distance of 30 feet from the periphery of the container.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 136 ( A B 373) F O R A N Amends Sees. 21101, 21650, 21657, repeals Sec.
     21653, Veh.C, re one-way highways.
  Provides that authorities in charge of any highway may designate it, or any p a r t
thereof, for one-way traffic a t all or such times as indicated by official traffic
control devices. Specifies that vehicles shall be driven only in direction designated by
such devices.
   Makes related changes.
   Incorporates additional changes proposed by SB 15 t o Section 21101 to be
operative only on enactment of S B 15.
Ch. 137 (AB 378) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 54931.9, Gov.C, re fire protection dis-
     tricts.
  Extends from J a n u a r y 1, 1969, to February 3, 1969, the time in which the state-
ment, map or plat, and certificate of completion regarding annexation of a fire
protection district may be filed for the annexation to be effective for assessment and
tax purposes in 1969.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 138 ( A B 387) SCHABARUM Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, re-
    peals, various sees., various codes, re executive reorganization.
  Makes statutory changes necessary to conform statutes to Reorganization Plaj»
No. 1 of 1968 without substantive change.
28                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 139 ( A B 415) P A T T E E Amends Sec. 38986, Ag.C, re imitation milk prod-
      ucts.
   Provides for the Director of Agriculture to use funds which are collected from
producers and distributors for testing, weighing and sampling of milk fat and milk
solids not fat rather than assessments on designated components of products re-
sembling milk products for the enforcement and administration of the provisions of
the chapter on products resembling milk products if he determines the fees col-
lected to enforce the chapter are insufficient to defray the cost and these funds are-
appropriated from the Department of Agriculture Fund.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 140 (AB 416) B E V E B L Y Adds Sec. 1985.1, C.C.P., re court witnesses.
  Permits any person subpoenaed to appear in court to agree with person a t whose
request subpoena was issued to appear at time other than t h a t specified in sub-
poena. Provides t h a t failure to appear pursuant to such agreement may be punished
as contempt.
Ch. 141 ( A B 417) B E V E B L Y Adds Sec. 535, C.C.P., re temporary injunctions:
     security.
   Provides procedure whereby any person posting security in action for temporary
or preliminary injunction or restraining order places himself under jurisdiction of
court in such action with respect to liability in connection with such security,
following a final determination by court t h a t the temporary or preliminary in-
junction or restraining order should not have been issued.
Ch. 142 ( A B 439) D U F F Y Adds Art. 6 (commencing with Sec. 50925), Ch. 4,
     P t . 1, Div. 1, Title 5, Gov.C, re county and city firemen.
  Provides workmen's compensation benefits for death or disability of local fireman
occurring while firefighting or preserving or protecting life or property anywhere in
state and when not acting under immediate direction of employer.
Ch. 143 ( A B 442) Dunlap Amends Sec. 252, B . & T.C., re property tax exemp-
     tions.
   Permits legal guardian or conservator of person claiming veterans' exemption,
or one who has been granted a power of attorney by such person, to appear for
and file affidavit for such exemption if declaration made that he has sufficient
knowledge of financial affairs of claimant to give all information and answer all ques-
tions in affidavit under penalty of perjury.
Ch. 144 ( A B 458) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 136.5, S. & H.C., re state high-
     ways : contract bidding.
  Authorizes Division of Highways to rent tools and equipment for 20 days, instead
of 10 days, without competitive bidding during an emergency.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 145 ( A B 503) P R I O L O Adds Sees. 673 and 674, H . & N.C., re boat
     liveries.
  Requires owner of boat livery to keep specified records for any vessel required to
be numbered under this code and to preserve such for at least six months. Prohibits
owner of boat livery, employees, or agent from permitting to be delivered to a
renter a vessel without equipment required by applicable laws and regulations.
Ch. 146 ( A B 504) P R I O L O Amends Sec. 652, H. & N.C., re small boats.
   Provides for the purpose of the subdivision requiring that every undocumented
vessel carry at least one approved life preserver, ring buoy or other device or
that every undocumented vessel carrying passengers for hire should carry at least
one approved life preserver for every person on board that a person water skiing
from the vessel shall be considered a person on board.
Ch. 147 ( A B 527) VEYSEY Amends Sec. 4228, adds Sec. 4047.5, B . & P.C.,
     re labels on drug prescriptions.
- Prohibits a pharmacist from dispensing any prescription except in a container
correctly labeled with prescribed information.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                            29,
Ch. 148 ( A B 542) D E N T Adds Sec. 54932.1, Gov.C, re city annexations.
  Declares that annexations by a city by ordinance adopted prior to November
26, 1968, are effective for assessment and taxation purposes for 1969-70 fiscal
year, if required statement and map or plat were filed with the State Board of
Equalization on or before February 10, 1969.
  In effect immediately.
Oh. 149 (AB 569) M c G E E Amends Sec. 692, C.C.P., Sec. 780, P r o b . C , re
     sale of real estate.
   Provides notice of execution, foreclosure, or probate sale of real estate may give
street address and other common designation, if any, of such property, but failure
to do so does not affect validity of notice.
Ch. 150 ( A B 571) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 1360, Fin.Q., re savings bank
     investments.
  Provides savings banks may invest up to specified limjt in stock, bonds, deben-
tures, and other obligations of the Government National Mortgage Association.
Oh. 151 (AB 577) B R O W N Amends Sec. 459, Elec.C, re registration informa-
     tion.
  Requires county clerk maintaining tabulating cards or electronic data-processing
tape containing voter registration information to submit to county central com-
mittee, free of charge, copies of cards or tape relating to all voters, instead of only
to voters of committee's party. Requires t h a t county central committee provide
replacement for tape.
Ch. 152 ( A B 1005) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 30527.6, W a t . C , re irrigation dis-
     trict elections.
  Defines "elector" and "voter" in Camp F a r West Irrigation District as a
person, corporation, or other entity owning land within the district. Requires
voters in such district to be owners of real property in district and specifies voters
need not be district residents. Specifies voting rights of multiple owners. Authorizes
voters or specified legal representatives to vote a t district elections either in person
or by proxy appointed as specified.
   In effect   immediately.
Oh. 153 ( A B 96) QUIMBY *Adds Sec. 21264.6, Gov.C, re retirement of patrol-
     men.
  Makes provisions requiring surviving wife of patrol member to have been married
to him for at least one year satisfied if the member was retired because of age
within one year following amendment of retirement law, or a contract, lowering
retirement age and wife was married to member on date of amendment.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 154 ( S B 93) C O L L I E R Amends Sec. 710, C.C.P., r e judgment debtors.
  Provides that procedures and fees for collection of judgments against assets of
judgment debtor held by political subdivisions of the state and other local
public entities shall also apply to districts.
Ch. 155 (SB 98) SONG Adds Title 7 (commencing with Sec. 1380.1), P t . 4,
     Div. 2, and repeals Sec. 1060, C i v . C ; amends Sees. 125, 126, P r o b . C , re
     powers of appointment.
  Creates a statutory body of law relating to powers of appointment, including,
among others, the more important rules on the» subject that are now a p a r t <tt
California's common law.
  Makes conforming, technical changes.
  Operative July 1,1970.
Ch. 156 ( S B 104) SONG Amends Sec. 3386, Civ.C, re contracts: specific
     performance.
   Permits a court to compel specific performance of a contract by the defendant
if such performance is otherwise appropriate and substantial counterperformance
by the plaintiff is assured or, if the court deems necessary, can be assured to the
satisfaction of the court, rather than prohibiting a court from ordering speeifie per-
formance where the plaintiff has not performed or could not be compelled by a
court to specifically perform his duties under the contract.
* Correction.
30                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Gh. 157 ( S B 284) R O D D A Amends and repeals various sees., Ed.C., re public
     school system.
  Bepeals obsolete and duplicated provisions, provisions having limited effect, and,'
erroneous cross reference. Specifies t h a t Department of Education shall have
custody of certain statements concerning dismissal of district employees. Makes
technical correction.
Gh. 158 ( S B 349) K E N N I C K Adds See. 54936, Gov.C, re school districts.
   Declares t h a t in case of school district boundary change where election on such
change was held prior to November 15, 1968, certificate of election results filed with
board of supervisors prior to December 25, 1968 and board of supervisors ordered
change effective prior to February 15„ 1909; such change of boundaries shall be
deemed effective for assessment and taxation purposes as of December 3 1 , 1968, and
all other purposes as of July 1, 1969.
   In effect    immediately.
Ch. 159 ( S B 441) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 2603, Elec.C., re elections.
  Allows boards of supervisors to post, instead of publish, a copy of Governor's
proclamation calling for general election.
Ch. 160 ( S B 442) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 10231, Elec.C, re ballot
      measures.
  s
    Permits county and city clerks of counties and cities submitting measures to
voters, which counties and cities are in close proximity, to designate, with approval
of their boards of supervisors or city councils, their respective measures by letters
in a way to avoid confusion to voters.
Ch. 161 ( S B 446) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 15805, E d . C , re school
     property.
   Permits governing boards of city school districts with 50,000 or less pupils in
average daily attendance during preceding fiscal year, in addition to all other non-
city school districts, to construct walks, footbridges, and tunnels within a mile of
a school when necessary for the safety of the pupils attending that school.
Ch. 162 ( A B 328) BADHAM Adds Sees. 2739 and 2754.1, amends Sec. 2741,
     P.U.C., re passenger air carriers.
   Establishes procedures for permits for intrastate passenger air carriers issued by
the Public Utlities Commission as to any carrier in business on April 1, 1969,
provided application is made prior to July 1, 1969. Allows carrier to operate until
its application is acted upon by the commission. Makes provisions regulating passen-
ger air carriers applicable to interstate carriers operating between intrastate points,
instead of wholly between terminal points, including intermediate points, in the state.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 163 ( A B 734) P A T T E E Amends Sees. 43605, 45633, 45663, 48214, Ag.C,
     re cantaloupe containers.
   Deletes provisions for standard No. 39, and pony No. 40, cantaloupe crates and
standard numbers 39 and 40 containers for honeyball melons, and revises standard
pack counts for cantaloupe containers Nos. 41 and 42.
 Ch. 164 (AB 914) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 12919, B . & P.O., re baling of hay.
  Limits sales of hay by bales to bales in lots weighing less than one ton, instead
of authorizing any such sales of hay by the bale so long as the bale has a tag
indicating its weight.
Ch. 165 ( A B 165) C H A P P I E Amends Sec. 14306, and Sec. 14218 as proposed
     by A B 1728, E d . C , re State Teachers' Retirement System.
  Provides that conditions for retirement for member whose last day of service was
prior to July 1, 1935, shall not be applicable to person who rendered at least
three schooldays of service on or after such date and prior to July 1, 1950, even
though compensation for such service was not paid out of public funds, if such per-
son taught 15 years or more before July 1, 1935.
  Incorporates same changes to Sec. 14218, Ed.C» as proposed by AB 1728, to
be operative on enactment of AB 1728.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         31
Ch. 166 (AB 208) D E N T Adds Sec. 75090.2, Gov.C, re Judges' Retirement
     Law.
  Permits judges who did not elect to have survivors' benefits under the Judges'
Retirement Law within applicable time limitation, to make such election on or be-
fore 30 days after the effective date of provision authorizing election after appli-
cable time limit.
Ch. 167 ( A B 474) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 2419, Veh.C, re replacement of
     flares.
  Removes requirement t h a t person sign a receipt when he receives flares from
California Highway Patrolman, as replacement for flares used by such a person,
to warn traffic of any accident or other hazardous condition when he w a s not re-
quired by law to give such warning.
Ch. 168 ( S B 15) C O L L I E R Amends Sees. 600, 21101, Veh.C, re through
     highways.
  Redefines the term "through highway" as used in the Vehicle Code, and revise?
power of local authorities to adopt rules and regulations regarding vehicles enter-
ing or crossing such highways.
Ch. 169 ( S B 119) T E A L E Amends Sec. 27454, Veh.C, re tires.
  Extends from May 1, 1969, to May 1, 1975, the expiration date of provision per-
mitting use of pneumatic tires containing metal-type studs of tungsten carbide or
other suitable material of designated construction on s t a t e highway between first
day of October and first day of May.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 170 ( S B 339) S C H M I T Z Amends Sec. 10012.5, Blec.C, re election cam-
    paigns.
  Requires statement of qualifications for candidates to be printed in type of uni-
form size, darkness, and spacing.
Ch. 171 ( S B 412) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 54932.2, Gov.C, re highway lighting
     districts.
  Declares the formation of any highway lighting district which files the required
statement and map or plat with the State Board of Equalization on or before
March 1, 1969, to be effective for assessment and taxation purposes for the 1969-
1970 fiscal year.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 172 ( S B 445) L A G O M A R S I N O Amends Sees.. 68097.1, 68097.2, Gov.C, re,
     court appearances by marshals.
  Provides t h a t marshal and deputy marshal shall receive normal compensation
and traveling expenses when compelled to attend court as a witness in a civil
action. Provides that the party subpoenaing marshal and deputy marshal shall pay
$25 per day to the public entity employing the marshal and deputy marshal.
Ch. 173 ( S B 447) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sees. 1074, 3575, P . U . C , re high-
     way carriers.
  Deletes requirement that highway common carriers, cement carriers, petroleum,
route carriers, highway contract carriers, cement contract carriers, and radial
highway common carriers file a bond to secure the payment of lessor claims, except
claims of lessors who are also employees of such carriers, when they lease
equipment.
Ch. 174 ( S B 800) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 26, Embarcadero Municipal
     Improvement District Act of 1960, (*Ch. 81, Stats 1960 1st. Ex. Sess.), re
     Embarcadero Municipal Improvement District.
   Increases the number of governing board members from 3 to 5 effective on the
last Friday of December 1969.
Ch. 175 ( S B 181) S H O R T Amends Sec. 34045, Veh.C, re cargo tank regis-
     tration fees.
  Changes original and renewal fee of a cargo tank for any biennial period com-
mencing with on or after J a n u a r y 1, 1970 to $25, rather t h a n having amount of
such fee determined by tank's volumetric capacity.
  In effect immediately.
• Correction.
32                  1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 176 ( S B 571) M A E L E E Amends Sees. 47691, 47692, 47693, Ag.C, re ag-
     riculture.
  Changes the specified percentage of soluble solids necessary for certain varieties
of grape to be considered mature and eliminates the use of certain instruments to,
test for the percentage of soluble solids.
   In effect   immediately.
 Ch. 177 ( A B 568) M O O E H E A D Amends Sec. 702, P r o b . C , re creditors'
      claims.
   Limits maximum time for filing creditors' claims from 6 months to 4 months from
 date of filing of affidavit of publication of notice to creditors in cases where the
 affidavit is not filed within 30 days after completion of the publication.
Ch. 178 ( A B 700) H A E V E Y J O H N S O N Amends See. 26837, Gov.C, re county
     clerk fees.
  Deletes the minimum fee of $1 charged by the county clerk or clerk of a muni-
cipal court for comparing a document with original and affixing his certificate.
 Ch. 179 ( A B 727) B E V E E L Y Amends, adds various sees., F i n . C , re savings
      and loan associations.
    Provides savings and loan associations may call their withdrawable shares or
 investment certificates, savings deposits; and may call dividends on such shares,
* interest.
    Specifies t h a t different rates in return may be paid on different classes of such
 shares and investment certificates issued with as well as without passbooks and
 that a lesser rate of return may be paid on t h a t portion of the value of such shares
 or certificates below amount set by the Savings and Loan Commissioner. Provides
 savings shares and certificates may be issued with maximum maturity date of five
 years rather than one year from date of issue.
    Provides t h a t initial period during which association investment certificates or
 withdrawable shares may .not be redeemed or retired may be extended beyond one
 year maximum by the commissioner.
    Provides that while no notice of intention to withdraw savings shares or certif-
 icates providing for definite rate of return may be given prior to maturity, an
 association may, subject to regulations of the commissioner, permit such withdrawal
 and reduce amount of interest payable on amount withdrawn.
    States terms share, share account, account, and savings account of federal sav-
 ings and loan association include savings deposits.
    In effect immediately.
Ch. 180 ( S B 49) A L Q U I S T Amends, adds var. sees. P.U.C., E & T.C., re
      rapid transit.
   Authorizes establishment of Santa Clara County Transit District, and prescribes
procedure for its formation; defines the area to be included in the district; pre-
scribes the purposes, organization, powers and duties of the district.
   Eequires district to purchase existing transit systems before it can establish the
new system. Provides procedures for such sale and purchase. Eemoves requirement
of P.U.C. approval for such sale and purchase.
   Establishes procedures for the district to issue bonds and impose a property tax
and a sales and use tax, with administration of the sales and use tax to be by the
State Board of Equalization.
   Includes the one-half of 1 percent sales and use tax authorized to finance the
completion of the San Francisco Bay Area Eapid Transit District among those
taxes which may be applicable to sales of beer, wine, and distilled spirits notwith-
standing Alcoholic Beverage Tax Law.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 181 ( A B 49) McGEE Amends Sec. 6767.5, B . & P.O., re industrial engi-
     neers.
   Permits the State Board of Eegistration for Professional Engineers to con-
sider those applications for registration without examination as an industrial engi-
neer which were filed prior to January 1,1969.
  In effect immediately.
                     I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                                33

Ch. 182 ( A B 317) B A D H A M Amends Sec. 9976, B . & P.C., re employment
    ' agencies' fees.
   Prohibits an employment agency from charging an applicant a fee in specified
situations.
Ch. 183 (AB 537) B R O W N Adds Sec. 1636, B . & P.C., re dentists.
   Specifies circumstances under which person who has had issued to him a degree
of doctor of dental medicine or doctor of dental surgery by foreign medical school
listed by World Health Organization or approved by Board of Dental Examiners
shall be eligible for examination for admission to practice in California.
   Bequires Board of Dental Examiners to hold examination for foreign-trained
dental applicants at least once a year»
Ch. 184 ( S B 76) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 5871, S. & H.C., re street light-
    ing facilities.
  Permits construction of street lighting facilities in same manner as other im-
provements under the Improvement Act of 1911.
Ch. 185 ( S B 142) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 675, W . & I.C., re juvenile court
    hearings.
  Requires t h a t precedence on court calendar for day on which case set for hearing
be granted cases in which the minor is detained and the sole allegation is t h a t the
minor is in class of persons whom juvenile court has jurisdiction to adjudge a
dependent children of the court.
Ch. 186 ( S B 168) COOMBS Amends Sec. 1812.10, Civ.C, re venue.
   Specifies the proper municipal, justice or small claims court in which an action on
a retail installment contract subject to the U n r u h Act is to be tried, r a t h e r t h a n
commenced.
   Specifies that in any action subject to the provisions of section, concurrently
with the filing of the complaint, the plaintiff shall file an affidavit stating facts
showing that the action has been commenced in a county or judicial district
described in this section as a proper place for the trial of the action. Provides t h a t
if a plaintiff fails to file the affidavit required by section, the court shall, upon its
own motion or upon motion of any party, dismiss any such action without preju*
dice.
   Specifically includes installment accounts within provisions of section.
Ch. 187 ( S B 201) S H O R T Adds Sec. 34001.1, Veh.C, re cargo tank registra-
     tion fees.
  Requires public entities which own or operate any cargo tank or tank vehicle
to pay registration fees for the operation of cargo tanks to the State F i r e Marshal.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 188 ( S B 231) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 25210.4, Gov.C, re county service
     areas.
  Adds television translator station facilities and services to the list of types of
extended services which may be provided in county service areas established by a
county board of supervisors to meet the need for extended governmental services
in unincorporated county areas.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 189 ( S B 279) S H E R M A N Amends Sees. 10140.6, 10160, repeals Sec,
      10164, B . & P.C., re real estate licenses.
   Eliminates provision which permits a real estate licensee to use corporate name
or fictitious name in prescribed matter which the licensee publishes, circulates, or
distributes, rather than a designation disclosing t h a t the licensee is performing acts
for which a real estate license is required. Deletes provision requiring the real
estate licenses of both real estate broker and salesman to be displayed in pre-
scribed manner and requirement that each real estate broker erect and maintain
a prescribed sign on the premise to indicate he is a licensed real estate broker.
Requires such broker to make his license a n d the licenses of his employee sales-
men available for inspection by the Real E s t a t e Commissioner or his designated
representative.



    2—L-2180
 34                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

 Ch. 190 ( S B 367) P E T R I S Amends Sec. 28103, Gov.C, re fees of grand
      jurors.
   Directs that grand jurors in Alameda County shall be paid five dollars ($5) and
 necessary common carrier fare for each day's attendance at a committee meeting
 of the grand jury, as well as being paid the fee for each day's attendance at a
 session of the grand jury.
 Ch. 191 ( S B 373) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 11528, Gov.C, re oaths, admin-
      istrative adjudication.
   Includes hearing reporters among those persons authorized to administer
 oaths and affirmations in proceedings under the Administrative Procedure
 Act.
 Ch. 192 ( S B 424) D A N I E L S O N Adds Sec. 3671, P.TJ.C, re highway permit
      carriers.
   Requires complaints for the collection of lawful charges of highway permit car-
 riers to be filed in court within three years from time the cause of action accrues
 except that such three-year period shall be extended to include six months from the
 date written refusal to pay such charges is given the carrier.
Ch. 193 ( S B 473) S C H R A D E Amends, adds, various sees., Gov.C, re Legis-
    lators' Retirement System.
  Includes Secretary of Senate, Chief Clerk of the Assembly, and Sergeants at
Arms of Senate and Assembly, with 10 or more years of full-time state service,
within Legislators' Retirement System.
Ch. 194 ( S B 501) LAGOMARSINO Amends various sees., E d . C , Gov.C,
      H . & S.C, P.R.C., and W a t . C , re local bonds.
   Increases from 6 percent to 7 percent the maximum rate of interest on bonds
which may be issued under the Junior College Revenue Bond Act of 1961, under
the Revenue Bond Act of 1941, under the provisions relating to recreation and
park districts, under the provisions relating to reclamation districts, and under the
Sanitary District Act of 1923, and, in the latter act, changes the prohibition against
selling a bond for less than its face value to a prohibition against selling a bond
for less than 95 percent of its par value.
   In effect  immediately.
Ch. 195 ( S B 528) G R U N S K Y Amends Sec. 98261, P.U.C., re Santa Cruz
      Metropolitan Transit District.
   Authorizes district borrowing against anticipated tax revenues for following
fiscal year prior to start of such year and also for fiscal year next succeeding
fiscal year immediately following fiscal year in which district was formed.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 196 ( S B 534) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sees. 7.1 and 12, Ventura County
     Flood Control Act (Ch. 44, Stats. 1944, 2nd Ex. Sess.), re Ventura County
     flood control.
   Limits requirement for consent and approval of legislative body of a city before
fees or charges may be levied on the development of land within such city to fees
or charges which are higher than any fees or charges levied on the development
of land outside the city.
   Increases until July 1, 1971, limit on aggregate taxes or assessments for any
one fiscal year which may be levied in zone 1 of district from $0.20 to $0.43 on
each $100 of assessed valuation.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 197 ( S B 537) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 5783.13, P . R . C , re recreation and
     park districts.
  Authorizes the district board of the Russian River Recreation and P a r k District,
in Sonoma County, to provide by resolution that all members of the board of di-
rectors shall be elected. Prescribes procedure for election thereafter of members of
the board of directors and their terms of office.
Ch. 198 ( S B 551) COLOGNE Adds Sec. 23.2, Riverside County Flood Control
    and Water Conservation District Act (Ch. 1122, Stats. 1945), re Riverside
    County flood control.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          35
   Authorizes district to fix a charge in each fiscal year representing a drainage
standby or availability assessment, not to exceed a specified amount, based on
acreage within the district to which drainage is made available, and to restrict
such assessment to lands lying within one or more improvement districts. Pre-
scribes procedure for collection of such charge.
Ch. 199 (SB 603) MOSCONE Amends heading Art. 4 (commencing with Sec.
     1560), Ch. 2, Div. 11, amends Sees, 1560, 1561, and 1565, Evid.C, re produc-
     tion of business records.
  Extends procedure permitting custodian of records or other qualified witness
to comply with subpoena duces tecum for production of records by delivering
copies of such records, to all business records, rather t h a n hospital records only,
in actions where business is neither party nor place where cause of action arose.
  Prescribes procedure for preparation and delivery of such records.
Ch. 200 ( S B 784) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 5782.20, P.R.C., re recrea-.
    tion and park districts.
  Corrects obsolete cross-reference, making no substantive change.
Ch. 201 ( S B 796) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 597, C.C.P., re t r i a l s : special de-
     fenses.
  Provides that any and all decisions or verdicts upon special defenses and all
rulings on the trial thereof may be reviewed, rather t h a n renewed, on motion for
a new trial or upon appeal from such judgment.
Ch. 202 ( S B 969) B R A D L E Y Amends Sec. 6447, S. & H.C., Improvement Act
     of 1911.
  Revises provision providing for discharge of bond placed on property pursuant
to provisions of Improvement Act of 1911 to specifically designate sums to be paid
on discharge of bond.
Ch. 203 (AB 215) B E L O T T I Amends Sees. 213.7, 214.8, R. & T.C., re prop-
    erty tax exemptions.
  Includes the property of certain volunteer fire departments within the welfare,
exemption from property taxation.
Ch. 204 (AB 401) D U N L A P Amends Sec. 647, P e n . C , re loitering.
  Makes technical, nonsubstantive change.
Ch. 205 (AB 566) A R K L I N Amends Sec. 12301, P e n . C , re destructive devices.
  Restricts to explosive missiles the missies included within the term "destructive,
device."
Ch. 206 (AB 585) D E D D E H Amends Sec. 13844, H . & S.C., re fire protection
    districts.
  Increases maximum sums that may be paid members of fire protection district
boards from $10 to $20 for each meeting of the district board attended by him,
not exceeding 4 meetings per calendar month. Requires that sum be based upon
board's determination of what amount is reasonably necessary to compensate board
members for their attendance a t meetings.
  Effective until the 91st day after the final adjournment of the 1971 Regular
Session.
Ch. 207 (AB 805) W I L S O N Repeals Sec. 21958, Y e h . C , re intoxicated pedes-
     trian on roadway.
   Deletes provision making it unlawful for any pedestrian who is intoxicated
to such an extent as to create a hazard to himself or others to walk or be upon any
roadway.
Ch. 208 (AB 1032) C A M P B E L L Amends Sec. 22051, F i n . C , re personal prop-
     erty brokers.
   Exempts job development corporations from regulation under the Personal Prop*
erty Brokers Law.
  In effect immediately.
36                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 209 ( A B 1257) P O R T E R Repeals and reenacts Metropolitan Water Dis-
     trict Act (Ch. 429, Stats. 1927), re Metropolitan Water District Act.
  Repeals and reenacts without substantive change the Metropolitan Water District
Act.
Ch. 210 ( A B 1798) KETCHTJM New act, re emergency fund.
  Appropriates $1,300,000 for the Emergency Fund in augmentation of and upon
the same terms and conditions as the appropriation made by Item 263 of the
Budget Act of 1968.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 211 ( S B 75) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 5613, S. & H.C., re sidewalks.
  Permits mailing of second notice to repair sidewalk in lieu of posting a copy of
the notice on the property, under the Improvement Act of 1911.
Ch. 212 ( S B 191) S C H M I T Z Amends Sec. 53892, adds Sec. 53892.3, Gov.C,
     re financial reports.
   Requires cities to include in annual financial report to Controller amounts ex-
pended during preceding fiscal year for construction of public projects other than
streets and highways.
   Specifies that total expenditures expended pursuant to competitive bidding shall
he reported. States legislative declaration that costs of administrative overhead
need not be included or costs not directly expended on construction.
Ch. 213 ( S B 197) DYMALLY Amends various sees., L a b . C , re labor.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 214 ( S B 577) C O L L I E R Amends Sec. 10854.1, R. & T.C., Sec. 9558,
    Veh.C, re vehicle and license fees.
  Specifies that the Department of Motor Vehicles may redeposit not more than
once a check in payment of fee or penalty without assessing additional penalties.
Ch. 215 ( S B 707) LAGOMARSINO Repeals Sees. 5032, 5033, 5034, 5037,
    and 5039, P.R.C., re state parks and monuments.
  Deletes provisions describing Mission Bay State Park, requesting establishing of
a state park in Amador County, approximately one mile north of State Highway
88 and providing Bidwell Mansion, in the City of Chico, as state historical monu-
ment.
Ch. 216 ( S B 717) B E I L E N S O N Amends and repeals various sees., U.I.C.
     and B. & P.C., re business opportunity regulations.
   Deletes provisions rendered obsolete by Ch. 172, Stats. 1965, abolishing separate
classifications of business opportunity brokers and salesmen and placing them under
real estate licensing regulations.
   Makes other technical nonsubstantive changes.
Ch. 217 ( A B 289) P A T T E E Amends Sees. 58605, 58893, adds Sees. 58656,
     58892.1, 58892.2, repeals Sec. 58656, Ag.C, re marketing orders.
   Specifies generally that marketing order may contain provisions for research studies
concerning the health, food, nutritional, therapeutic, dietetic or such qualities of
other food products or for the development of new products.
   Deletes distinction between manufacturing milk and market milk used in the
manufacturing of certain dairy products or imitation dairy products, as used in
marketing orders, including all milk in definition of commodity subject to marketing
order or agreement.
   Deletes provision dealing with application to certain persons and subject matters
of Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 58601), P a r t 2, Division 21 of the Agri-
cultural Code and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 61801), P a r t 3, Division 21
of the Agricultural Code.
   Specifies that only provisions which may be included in a marketing order or
agreement relating to milk, except when there is no milk stabilization and market-
ing and pooling plan in force and effect pursuant to specified chapter, other than
manufacturing milk and market milk which is used in the manufacture of any
dairy product or product resembling a milk product, are provisions for advertising
and sales promotion of milk, provisions for research studies for certain milk and milk
products, and other research studies concerning the health food, nutritional, thera-
                    1 9 6 9 RKGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           37
peutic, dietetic or such qualities of other food products or development of new food
products or the development of new uses for agricultural products, provisions for an
educational program, and other appropriate related provisions.
  Authorizes market orders to contain provisions to establish an educational pro-
gram which is designed to acquaint consumers with the commodity, either as it is
produced, processed or marketed, including its quality improvement and nutritional
values.
  Provides that the Director of Agriculture shall issue no marketing order for
milk unless he finds t h a t such order doesn't conflict with certain provisions relating
to stabilization and marketing of fluid milk and fluid cream and equalization
pools.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 218 (AB 462) V E Y S E Y Adds Sec. 25261, Veh.C, re vehicles: amber warn-,
     ing lights.
   Permits vehicles used by counties or county departments of agriculture and by
duly authorized representatives thereof, actually engaged in weed control or pest de-
tection to display flashing amber warning lights when necessarily parked on a high-.
way or moving at a slower speed than normal traffic.
Ch. 219 (AB 514) D E N T Adds Sec. 31000.2, Gov.C, re citizen's commissions:
     per diem.
   Authorizes county board of supervisors to pay special allowances such as per diem
stipends to members of special commissions or committees of citizens when such al-
lowances are authorized and reimbursable under federal programs in which county
participation is approved by board.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 220 (AB 663) B R I G G S Amends various sees., I n s . C , re insurance.
   Deletes provisions relating to joint firm life licenses and joint holders thereof.
   Makes applicable generally, rather than only to fire and casualty licensees, life
licensees, and disability licensees, various provisions relating to organizational
licensees and military service certificates of convenience.
   Provides that specified organizations which are not holders of specified certificate
of authority are not eligible for license in any class of insurance unless each member
thereof possesses individual license to transact each class authorized by such licensft
or is natural person named on such license to transact business thereunder.
Ch. 221 ( A B 674) B U R K E Amends Sec. 23270, Veh.C, re towing on vehicular
     crossings.
  Excepts a member of the California Highway Patrol or an employee of the De-
partment of Public Works from the provision which prohibits a person from pro-
pelling any vehicle or object on a vehicular crossing by means of pushing with
another vehicle.
Ch. 222 ( A B 765) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 15807, Fin.C., re credit u n i o n s : re-
    ports, statements.
  Requires that prescribed reports and financial statements submitted by credit
unions to the Commissioner of Corporations be accompanied by a report, certificate,
or opinion of an independent certified public accountant or independent public ac-
countant, rather t h a n be by such an accountant.
Ch. 223 (AB 766) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 12304, F i n . C , re check sellers and
     cashers.
  Requires that specified reports and financial statements filed by licensed check
sellers and cashers with Commissioner of Corporations be accompanied by report,
certificate or opinion of an independent certified public accountant or independent
public accountant.
Ch. 224 ( A B 767) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 17406, F i n . C , re escrow regula-
    tions : financial statements.
  Requires licensed escrow agents to submit with required reports and financial state-
ments, in addition to other specified items, a report, certificate, or opinion of inder
pendent certified public accountant or independent public accountant.
38                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 225 ( A B 768) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 18610, F i n . C , re industrial loan
     companies.
  Requires that audit reports and financial statements submitted by industrial loan
companies to the Commissioner of Corporations be accompanied by a report, certifi-
cate, or opinion of an independent certified public accountant or independent public
accountant, rather than being prepared by an independent certified public accountant
or independent certified public accountant or independent public accountant.
Ch. 226 (AB 856) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Amends Sec. 21704, Veh.C, re distances
     between vehicles.
  Requires driver of any motor vehicle, operated outside of business or residence
district, driving of which is subject to maximum speed limit of 55 miles per hour
prescribed by Veh.C, Sec. 22406, to keep vehicle not less than 300 feet to rear of
any other motor vehicle preceding it and subject to same speed restriction, rather
than require driver of any motortruck, schoolbus, motor vehicle towing any other
vehicle operated outside such a district to keep vehicle not less than 500 feet from
any similar vehicle.
   Omits provision making section inapplicable to a passenger vehicle drawing a
camping semitrailer, small trailer or other passenger motor vehicle, and to a motor
vehicle drawing specific equipment used in highway construction or maintenance
work.
   Makes related changes.
Ch. 227 ( A B 858) E E N T O N Amends Sec. 667, I n s . C , re insurance: non-
     renewal of policy.
  Exempts certain persons from liability for certain acts and statements concern-
ing notice of nonrenewal of automobile insurance.
Ch. 228 ( A B 989) B E V E R L Y Amends Sees. 35701, 35801, Gov.C, re con-
     solidation of cities.
   Provides for purposes of Municipal Consolidation Act of 1909 and Municipal
Consolidation Act of 1913, that any city, regardless of population, may be the
consolidating city for purposes of consolidation upon consent being given by ma-
jority vote of legislative body of each city involved, instead of requiring that city
 having the largest population be the consolidating city.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 229 ( A B 1110) B E E New act, re Livermore Valley School District.
   Expresses legislative intent re Livermore Valley Unified School District.
   Appropriates $500,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to Livermore
Valley Unified School District to enable district to pay contracted indebtedness,
due and owing, in the 1968-1969 fiscal year.
  Requires Superintendent of Public Instruction to withhold, during 1969-1970 and
1970-1971 fiscal years, from apportionments from the State School Fund to the
district, an amount equal to the amount actually disbursed, plus interest, to the
district by this act.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 230 ( S B 1055) COLOGNE Amends and adds various sees., Metropolitan
     W a t e r District Act (Ch. 429, Stats. 1927), and Metropolitan Water District
     Act, as proposed by AB 1257 of the 1969 Reg. Sess., re metropolitan water
     districts.
   Authorizes board of directors by a f vote to issue general obligation bonds of
the district without a vote of the electors, provided that the aggregate principal
amount of such bonds does not exceed the then unissued balance of the principal
amount of bonds authorized at an election held in the district prior to July 1, 1966,
and the bonds are issued for the same purpose as that for which the proceeds of
such unissued bonds could have been used. Permits such bonds to bear interest at a
rate not to exceed 7 percent per annum, payable semiannually. Terminates authority
to issue such bonds July 1, 1974.
   Increases maximum rate of interest at which bonds may be issued by district
from 6 percent to 7 percent.
   Incorporates additional changes proposed by AB 1694 [Ch. 441] to Sees. 242
and 252, Metropolitan Water District Act, as proposed by AB 1257, 1969 Reg.
Sess., to be operative only upon the amendments to Sees. 242 and 252 by A B 1694
becoming operative.
   In effect immediately.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                              39
Ch. 231 ( A B 105) B I D D L E Adds Sec. 23126, Veh.C, re driving while intoxi-
   ' cated.
  Establishes presumptions affecting the burden of proof relating to alcohol in blood
of driver in determining whether he was under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
Ch. 232 ( A B 146) MONAGAN Amends Sec. 13833, adds Sec. 13834, H . & S.C.,
     re fire protection districts.
  Empowers board of supervisors upon receipt of a petition of 50 or more electors
forwarded by board of directors of fire protection district requesting increase in
membership of district board from three to five members, to appoint two new
directors.
Ch. 233 ( A B 526) V E Y S E Y Amends Sec. 4986.1, B . & T.C., re property taxa-
     tion.
   Permits board of supervisors to provide t h a t all delinquent taxes, penalties and
costs, and a pro rata share of current taxes, penalties and costs on property
acquired by a public entity in condemnation proceedings, be transferred for col-
lection to the unsecured roll.
Ch. 234 ( A B 604) B U R K E Amends Sec. 154, repeals and adds Ch. 8.5 (com-
    mencing with Sec. 35450), P t . 4, Div. 18, S. & H.C., re streets and highways.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 235 ( A B 631) M A C D O N A L D Adds Sec. 16256, E d . C , re street and MglK
    way dedication.
  Permits school districts to satisfy street and highway dedication requirements
when streets or highway rights of way are being conveyed to a city or county or
by a city or county to a school district solely by posting a notice of intention to
convey in an appropriate location before conveyance.
Ch. 236 ( A B 668) BY AN Amends Sec. 77, Adds Sec. 77a, Estero Municipal
     Improvement District Act, Ch. 82, Stats. 1960 (1st Ex. Sess.), re recreational
     facilities and buildings.
   Permits district to acquire, construct, maintain and operate recreational facilities
for the public. Provides that the construction of recreational buildings occupying no
more than half the area of the parcel of land shall not be inconsistent with park-
purposes unless the terms of the grant or deed provide to the contrary. Provides
that proceeds of bonds for park purposes may be used to construct recreational
buildings if the directors find by resolution adopted by four-fifths vote t h a t the engi-
neer's report of the project appearing in the bond proposition made reference to
such use of the bond proceeds, and t h a t such report is on file in the district
secretary's office.
Ch. 237 ( A B 689) C R A N D A L L Amends various sees., Gov.C, re municipal
     courts.
  Eliminates City of Cupertino from Santa Clara-Cupertino Judicial District and
includes it in the Sunnyvale Judicial District, i n c r e a s e s the numbers of, and
salaries of, various court attaches of certain municipal courts in Santa Clara
County. Corrects section reference in provision regarding disposition of filing fee.
Ch. 238 (AB 829) M O O B H E A D Amends Sees. 3053, 3109, 3151, W . & I.C., re
     narcotics addiction.
   Bemoves requirement that Director of Corrections wait 60 days following receipt
of person involuntarily committed to narcotic detention, treatment, and rehabilita-
tion facility before concluding that he is unfit for confinement and treatment in such
facility and either returning person to court for further proceedings if he has been
convicted of crime or discharging him if he has not been convicted of crime.
   Provides that written order of any member of Narcotic Addict Evaluation Au-
thority shall be sufficient w a r r a n t for any peace officer to return outpatient to cus-
tody.
Ch. 239 ( A B 835) L E W I S Amends See. 31532, Gov.C, re County Employees'
     Retirement Law.
  Permits release of sworn statements and individual records of members of county
system established pursuant to County Employees' Retirement Law of 1937, upon
written authorization by the member.
40                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 240 ( A B 851) Amends Sees. 11503, 11703, 11705, 11802, Veh.C, re motor
     vehicles: occupational licensing.
   Revises provisions relating to the refusal by the Department of Motor Vehicles
to issue licenses and certificates to automobile dismantlers, dealers, transporters,
and manufacturers, to specify that certain stated reasons for refusal to issue licenses
and certificates to partnership or corporation applicants are in the disjunctive rather
than the conjunctive.
   Authorizes the department to suspend or revoke the license issued to a dealer,
transporter, or manufacturer of vehicles, and refuse to issue or suspend or revoke
a vehicle salesman's license, if holder of such license or applicant for such license
has violated any of the provisions of the Rees-Levering Motor Vehicle Sales and
Finance Act, rather than specified provisions of such act.
Ch. 241 (AB 1034) RAY B. J O H N S O N Adds Sec. 37203.1, W a t . C , re Yolo-
     Zamora Water District.
   Permits Yolo-Zamora W a t e r District to proceed under alternative provisions for
the levy, collection, and enforcement of district assessments by the county notwith-
standing requirement for filing of specified documents by J a n u a r y 1st if filed by April
15,1969.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 242 ( A B 1074) M O O R H E A D Amends Sees. 2620, 2621, P e n . C , re testi-
     mony of prisoners.
  Enables prisoner in state prison, when ordered removed and produced before a
court, grand jury, or magistrate, for trial, examination, or hearing of a motion for
any offense triable in the superior court, or as material witness in any criminal
action, to be ordered to appear in other felony proceedings as defendant or witness
in courts of the county from which original order directing removal issued. Re-
quires district attorney to forward copy of written order directing additional ap-
pearance to warden of prison in which prisoner is incarcerated.
Ch. 243 ( A B 1139) RAY E. J O H N S O N Adds Sec. 7J to Chapter 99, Stats, of
      1913, re Knights Landing Ridge Drainage District.
   Specifically permits the board of drainage commissioners of the Knights Landing
Ridge Drainage District, instead of levying an assessment for maintenance and re-
pairs of the works of the district and for incidental expenses of the district, to
utiliee the tax rolls of Colusa and Yolo Counties pursuant to provisions relating to
reclamation districts.
Ch. 244 (AB 1159) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 760, I n s . C , re insurance: unlawful
     rebates.
  Provides that premiums on personal or controlled insurance, as defined, trans-
acted by insurance agent, broker, or solicitor who has been licensed more than six
years, payable to him in one calendar year, which exceed one-third of other
premiums, rather than one-third of premiums, transacted by him in same calendar
year shall be unlawful rebates.
Ch. 245 ( A B 1451) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Amends Sec. 1468, Civ.C, re cove-
     nants.
   Includes covenants made by grantees of land with the grantor of such land among
those which run with the land of both parties, except as specified, where required
conditions are met.
Ch. 246 (AB 1932) SCHABARUM Amends Sec. 21453, Veh.C, re motor ve-
    hicles : stop signals.
  Revises what red alone or "stop" on an official traffic control signal means.
Ch. 247 ( A B 1933) SCHABARUM Amends Sec. 820, S. & H . C , re federal aid
    to highways.
  Reenacts assent of state to designated federal acts.
Ch. 248 ( S B 62) LAGOMARSINO Adds Ch. 7.6 (commencing with Sec. 313),
     Title 9, P t . 1, P e n . C , re harmful matter.
   Defines harmful matter and makes person who knowingly, as defined, distributes,
sends, causes to be sent, exhibits, or offers to distribute or exhibit harmful matter
to a minor, i.e., a natural person under 18, guilty of a misdemeanor.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           41

 Provides a defense to prosecutions if act charged was committed in aid of legiti-
mate scientific or educational purposes.
 Establishes punishments for violations.
Oh. 249 ( S B 63) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sees. 311, 311.2, 311.5, and 311.9;
     adds Sec. 312.5; repeals Sec. 311.3, P e n . C , re obscene matter.
   Provides test for judging predominant appeal to prurient interest.
   Provides that, where circumstances indicate the matter is commercially exploited
by the defendant for sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with re-
spect to the nature of the matter and can justify concluding the matter is utterly
without redeeming social importance.
   Specifies that preparing, publishing, and printing obscene matter are offenses only
if done with intent to distribute or exhibit to others, and that exhibiting such matter
is an offense only when matter is exhibited to others, and makes corresponding change
in provisions defining existing offense of possession with intent to exhibit.
   Revises exemption for specified motion picture operators from provision prohibit-
ing exhibition of, or possession with intent to exhibit, obscene matter.
   Repeals misdemeanor provision relating to obscene matter and minors under 18.
   Makes certain violations punishable as a feloney, rather than a misdemeanor,
when there has been a prior conviction of any of certain specified offenses.
   Recasts provision punishing act of advertising or otherwise promoting obscene
matter and makes such provision applicable to exhibiting, a s well as distributing,
such matter.
Ch. 250 (SB 123) T E A L E Adds Sec. 21702.1, E d . C , re school district bonding
      capacity.
   Provides, for purposes of computing bonding capacity of school districts, t h a t
taxable property of the district shall be determined upon the basis that the dis-
trict's assessed value has not been reduced by the exemption of the assessed value
of business inventories in the district or reduced by the homeowner's property tax
exemption.
   In effect    immediately.
Ch. 251 ( S B 259) B U R G E N E R Amends Sees. 5103, and 5243, S. & H.C., re
     Improvement Act of 1911.
   Provides for agreements between public utilities or public agencies and legislative
body whose work or improvement includes mains and appurtenances for supplying
or distributing a domestic or industrial gas supply.
   Authorizes the delivery of proposals or bids to any officer designated by the legis-
lative body, rather than only to the clerk.
Ch. 252 ( S B 302) CUSANOVICH Repeals Sec. 7610, L a b . C , re industrial
     safety.
  Deletes provision limiting to the 61st day after adjournment of 1969 Regular
Session of Legislature the operative effect of provisions governing industrial
safety on ships and vessels.
Ch. 253 ( S B 405) SONG Amends Sec. 2123.3, B . & P.C., re medical district
     review committees.
  Reduces from 10 to 3 the minimum number of nominations for each member ap-
pointed to each district review committee to be made by professional medical
societies within the district, by the deans of approved medical schools, and by the
State Board of Medical Examiners.
Ch. 254 ( S B 439) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 2984.2, Civ.C, re sales of motor
     vehicles.
   Makes clarifying change in the provision making unenforceable certain agreements
in conection with certain sales of motor vehicles which provide for the inclusion
of title to or a lien upon any personal or real property, other than the motor vehicle
which is the subject matter of the sale, or accessories therefor, or special and
auxiliary equipment used in connection therewith, as security for payment of t h e
contract balance.
   Declares that such amendment does not constitute a change in, but is only
declaratory of, existing law.
42                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 255 ( S B 440) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 2982, Civ.C, re automobile con-
     ditional sales contracts.
   Deletes from the provision prescribing the formalities of automobile conditional
sales contracts, provision requiring that any promise by the seller or anyone with
his knowledge, made as an inducement to the buyer, to compensate the buyer for
customer referrals, be stated in such contract and requiring the contract to state
that the unpaid balance be reduced by the compensation owing pursuant to such
promise.
Ch. 256 ( S B 1004) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 14621.5, Elec.C, amends
     Sec. 31900, E d . C , re absent voting.
  Requires the application for absent voter ballot to contain a statement of the
precinct and county residence requirements for absent voting.
  Requires t h a t a statement informing voters of absent voting procedure at school
district elections be included on sample ballot envelope, rather than in each mailing
sent to voters.
Ch. 257 ( A B 1142) Z'BERG Adds Sees. 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, Brannan-Andrus
     Levee Maintenance District Act (Ch. 910, Stats. 1967), re Brannan-Andrus
     Levee District.
  Authorizes district board under specified circumstances to issue time warrants
payable at future dates with interest not to exceed 7 percent per annum. Restricts
such authority to time warrants not in excess of §25 per acre or 10-year payment
period, unless issuance authorized by district election as specified. Specifies general
procedures and restrictions respecting issuance of such time warrants.
Ch. 258 ( A B 1391) M A C G I L L I V A R Y Amends Sees. 13 and 14, Santa Barbara
    County Flood Control and Water Conservation District Act (Ch. 1057, Stats.
    1955), re Santa Barbara Flood Control.
  Increases maximum permissible interest rate on bonded indebtedness incurred to
pay the cost of any work or improvement in any district zone from 5% to 7 % .
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 259 ( S B 630) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 2261, Civ.C, re trustees.
  Provides property received in trust which a trustee may retain includes stock in
any corporation controlling, controlled, or under common control with the trustee.
Ch. 260 ( S B 113) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 506, W. & I . C , re records of
     minors.
  Provides that no record of the detention of a person taken into custody solely
upon the ground that he is a person whom the juvenile court may adjudge to be a
dependent child of the court, or a person adjudged such and made a dependent child
of juvenile court solely upon that ground, shall be made or kept by any law enforce-
ment agency or Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation as a record of
arrest.
Ch. 261 ( S B 140) DYMALLY Amends Sees. 16117 and 16118, W. & I . C , re
    adoption of children.
  Authorizes the two-year pilot program established by the Department of Social
Welfare for hard-to-place children to be carried out by any licensed adoption agency
rather than any licensed county adoption agency.
Ch. 262 ( S B 151) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 11225, P e n . C , re nuisances:
     illegal gambling.
   Provides building or place used for, or in or upon which acts of illegal gambling
as defined by state and local law are held or occur, is a nuisance, whether public or
private, to be enjoined, abated, and prevented.
   Declares that nothing in such provisions shall be construed to apply the defini-
tion of a nuisance to a private residence where illegal gambling is conducted on an
intermittent basis and without the purpose of producing profit for the owner or
occupier of the premises.
Ch. 263 ( S B 180) R O D D A Amends Sec. 5605, adds Sec. 17551.1, E d . C , re
    school districts.
  Requires consideration in formula for computing tuition payments to be paid by
elementary school districts to high school districts for attendance of 7th and 8th
grade pupils in junior high schools, of amount required to be raised by an ele-
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           43,
mentary district, the electorate of which voted to disapprove a defeated unification
proposal, by the application of an excess tax rate to make the district eligible for
apportionments of supplemental support, if actually raised.
   Provides school district which maintains a t least 33 regular day schools, not more
than two of which failed to be maintained for 175 days during the 1968-1969-
school year, shall not be denied receipt of apportionment of State School F u n d for
failure to meet specified attendance minimums in area declared to be disaster area
during school year, 1968-1969.
Ch. 264 ( S B 242) M A R K S Amends Sec. 43.7, Civ.C, re immunity from lia-
     bility.
   Includes podiatric organization and pharmaceutic organization within definition
of "professional society" for purposes of granting immunity from monetary liability
and from causes of action for damages to member of duly appointed committee of
state or local professional society for specified acts.
Ch. 265 ( S B 323) S T I B R N Adds Sec. 1584.5, Civ.C., re transfer of property»
  Prohibits unsolicited offers to sell merchandise where offer includes sending such
merchandise not ordered or requested, and provides that receipt of any such mer-
chandise so sent shall for all purposes be deemed' a gift.
  Permits person who receives such merchandise, if after such receipt is deemed to
be an unconditional gift the sender continues to send bill statements or requests for
payments, to bring action to enjoin such conduct,, and specifies t h a t in such actio»
there may also be judgment for exemplary damages and costs incurred by the
recipient.
Ch. 266 ( S B 401) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 209, H . & S.C., r e reports to legis-
     lature.
  Requires State Department of Public Health to make a report to Legislature
each odd-numbered year, rather than a t each general session, with suggestions as to
legislative action.
Ch. 267 ( S B 402) S H E R M A N Adds Sec. 543, H.' & S.C., re s a n i t a r i a n s :
    fees for examination.
  Requires applicants for sanitarian certification examination to pay nonreturnable
$15 fee for each such examination. Requires such fees to be paid; into S t a t e
Treasury to credit of General Fund.
Ch. 268 ( S B 526) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sees. 7153, 7154, H . & S.C., re
     disposition of decedent's remains.
   Permits an authorized person, under the Anatomical Gift Act, to make a gift
of decedent's body by the authorized person's telegraphic, recorded telephonic, or other
recorded message.
Ch. 269 ( S B 540) S H O R T Amends Sec. 460, H . & S.C., re X-ray photographs.
  Restricts X-ray records taken by county health officer which board of supervisors
may have destroyed or disposed of to a medical library to those taken with regard
to tuberculosis, rather than infectious and communicable disease. Expands circum-
stances under which such authorization of destruction or disposal may be made.
Ch. 270 ( S B 615) W A L S H Amends Sec. 5093, P e n . C , re correctional institu-
     tions : cloth production.
   Eliminates requirement that raw cotton used by the textile mill ( a t S a n Quen-
tin) under the jurisdiction of the Correctional Industries Commission be produced
and purchased in California, and permits purchase of cotton yarn and synthetics
without restrictions.
Ch. 271 ( S B 618) B E I L E N S O N Adds Ch. 7.7 (commencing with Sec. 25880),
     Div. 20, H . & S.C., re lead-based paint.
   Requires that prescribed warning label be affixed to all containers of paint t h a t
has lead content of 1 percent or more of nonvolatile matter in container which is
sold, exchanged, offered for sale, exposed for sale» held in possession for sale, bar»
tered, or traded a t retail in this state.
44                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 272 ( S B 682) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 2283, Civ.C, amends Sec. 1240, adds
     Sees. 1123.5, 1123.6 and 1123.7. P r o b . C , re testamentary trusts.
   Provides exclusive remedy for removal of trustee of testamentary trust by petition
to court in which will probated or which has jurisdiction over testamentary trust.
   Provides appeal may be taken from order removing or refusing to remove trustee,
or fixing, directing, or allowing payment of trustee's compensation.
Ch. 273 ( S B 742) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 5870, S. & H.C., re side-
     walks and curbs.
  Excludes use of alleys in determining a "block" for purposes of sidewalk and curb
construction under the Improvement Act of 1911.
  Makes technical change.
Ch. 274 ( S B 773) S C H M I T Z Amends Sec. 16175, E d . C , re real property ex-
     change.
  Adds a junior college district, which became effective on or after July 1, 1968, to
designated districts authorized to exchange real property for real property of another
person pursuant to agreement and without complying with otherwise applicable pro-
visions of the Education Code. Specifies that the total acreage involved in the ex-
change for the junior college district shall be 10 acres or less, and that the exchange
shall be completed on or before July 1, 1970.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 275 ( S B 776) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 783, Civ.C, re condominiums.
   Includes specifically leasehold or subleasehold within estate for years for purposes
of condominium.
Ch. 276 ( S B 799) D A N I E L S O N Adds Art. 4 (commencing with Sec. 5895.50),
    Ch. 27, P t . 3, Div. 7, S. & H.S., re sidewalk and curb construction.
  Provides for the construction of sidewalks and curbs under the Improvement
Act of 1911 by a city or county in territory outside of the territory of the city or
county in specified circumstances. Provides for assessments and for the payment of
such construction.
Ch. 277 ( S B 866) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 997, C.C.P., re compromise settle-
     ments.
   Extends time within which plaintiff may give notice to defendant of acceptance
of offer to compromise from five to 10 days.
Ch. 278 ( S B 964) WAY Amends Sec. 49643, Ag.C, re plums and fresh prunes.
   Authorizes the marking of containers for plums or prunes with a size designa-
tion in terms of the maximum number of fruits for a specified weight in pounds.
Ch. 279 ( S B 998) B R A D L E Y Adds Sec. 26646, Gov.C, re sheriffs.
  Permits sheriffs, with consent of county auditor, to establish bank accounts for
deposit of bail and fine money rather than use county * treasury only, as presently.
Ch. 280 ( S B 1307) S H O R T Amends Sec. 6350.4, H . & N.C., re Stockton Port
     District bonds.
  Raises maximum rate of interest on additional Stockton Port District bonds from
6 to 7 percent per annum.
  In effect immediately.
C h . 281 ( A B 191) B U R T O N Amends Sec. 75106.5, Gov.C, re Judges' Retire-
      ment Law.        '
   Permits person receiving allowance under Judges' Retirement Law to authorize
deductions for credit union shares.
C h . 282 (AB 706) H O M Amends Sec. 9531, B . & P.C., re Dry Cleaning B o a r d :
      terms.
   Revises expiration dates of terms of members of Dry Cleaning Board and number
of terms to expire on each such new <late. Grants new terms to three members of
present board to conform with new -expiration dates of terms of members.
* Correction.
                     1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                              45
Ch. 283 ( A B 778) B A G L E Y Amends Sec. 29100.5, Gov.C, and adds Sec. 531.5,,
      R. & T.C., re property taxation: business inventories.
   Permits escape assessments of property misclassified as business inventory prop-
erty because of incorrect information submitted by taxpayer and imposes interest of
i percent per month thereon. Adds 25 percent penalty if taxpayer knew informa-
tion was incorrect.
   Provides t h a t cities, school districts and special districts, rather than local govern-
mental units, shall not take business inventory exemption into account in fixing of
county property tax rate.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 284 ( A B 890) B R O W N Amends Sees. 7643, 7666, B . & P.C., re embalmers.
   Eliminates requirement of specified apprenticeship in California for any person
who has been licensed and has practiced in any other state or country as an em-
balmer for minimum of three years within the seven years preceding his application
for California license as embalmer and whose license has never been suspended or
revoked for unethical conduct.
Ch. 285 ( A B 793) MONAGAN Amends, adds, and repeals various sees., Gov.C,
      and Delta W a t e r Agency Act (Ch. 419, Stats.,1968), re Delta W a t e r Agency.
   Provides that each landowner shall have one vQte for each dollar's worth of land
to which he holds title as determined by the last equalized assessment role of the
County, rather than have one vote for each acre of land to which he holds title.
   Changes maximum limit on assessments which may be levied by agency for pur-
poses other than payment under specified contracts from $0.15 per acre to a total
sum in the amount of $100,000. Changes date upon which board of agency shall
determine assessments sufficient to pay agency's expenses and obligations from J u n e
1 to June 30 and changes from June 1 to J u n e 30, date upon which board shall
certify such determinations to the board of supervisors of each county with lands
within the agency along with determinations r e : amounts to be raised applicable
to each county.
   Provides for collection, within each particular county in which lands of the
agency are located, of the amount of the agency assessment apportioned to such
county by prorating it on the basis of the assessed value of the taxable land, as
defined, rather than by prorating it on the basis of acreage over all of the taxable
land.
   Deletes alternative procedure for payment of agency taxes available to cities and
certain districts part of the land area of which is located within the agency.
   Authorizes agency board to appoint the county treasurer of any county in which
agency lands are located as treasurer of the agency and depository of agency funds.
Authorizes board to issue warrants drawn on agency funds to pay indebtedness of
the agency in anticipation of the collection of assessment levies.
   Makes related changes.
   Makes technical correction in description of agency boundary.
   Specifies t h a t notwithstanding statutory provisions requiring filing with local
assessor and State Board of Equalization by J a n u a r y 1 of specified statement and
map or plat such agency shall be deemed organized for tax and assessment purposes
if filed on behalf of agency by December 3 1 , 1968, and ratified by agency by March
1,1969.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 286 ( S B 11) C O L L I E R Amends Sec. 625b, P e n . C , re aircraft.
   Punishes by imprisonment in state prison or county jail, or fine, or both, every
person who willfully and maliciously damages, injures, or destroys any aircraft, or
contents or any parts thereof, in such manner as to render the aircraft unsafe for
flight operations for which it is designed and equipped.
Ch. 287 ( S B 79) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 2952, C i v . C , re recordation:
    mortgages, trust deeds.
  Revises and recasts provisions relating to duty and liability of county recorder
with respect to recording only a portion of certain documents presented for rec-
ordation and containing specified instructions not to record a p a r t thereof.
  To become operative July 1,1970.
46                  I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 288 ( S B 126) M A R L E R Adds Sec. 2283.5, H . & S.C., re pest abatement.
   Requires a mosquito abatement district to notify a state agency if any specified
nuisance is found to exist on any property subject to the control of such agency.
 Specifies the contents of such notice, the manner of serving it, the right of the state
agency to a hearing before the board, the type of hearing, and the power of the
district to abate the nuisance if it is not abated by the state agency. Authorizes
such agency to appeal decision of district abatement board, for specified reasons, to
State Director of Public Health within 10 days after such board decision, and
requires director to decide the matter on appeal and convey his decision to agency
and district within specified time. Specifies that director's decision is final and con-
clusive. States such state agency shall be responsible for reasonable control of the
nuisance, and further states if such control is performed by the district, the cost
for such control is a charge against and shall be paid from the maintenance fund
or from other funds for the support of the agency.
   Allows any state agency and such district to enter into contractual agreements
to provide such control and declares such authority is in addition to any other
contractual authority the parties may have for such purpose.
Ch. 289 ( S B 297) COLOGNE Adds Sec. 1020, E d . C , adds Sec. 17157, Veh.C,
       re civil liability: school districts.
   Exempts persons, firms, or corporations, and public entities, as defined, and their
employees, from liability for damages resulting from operation of equipment or an
act or omission of personnel when equipment or the services of personnel are
gratuitously loaned to a school district and are under the control of the school dis-
trict.
   Excludes from coverage of provision persons, firms, corporations, or public en-
tities who loan mechanically defective equipment or who loan the services of em-
ployees who are not fully qualified.
   Provides that when motor vehicle is gratuitously loaned to a school district, the
school district and not the owner is deemed to be the owner for purposes of civil
liability for damage done by such vehicle.
Ch. 290 ( S B 338) M A R K S Adds Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 6990), Ch.
     10.5, Div. 6, E d . C , repeals Art. 10 (commencing with Sec. 427), Ch. 2, P t . 1,
     Div. 1, H . & S.C., re alcoholism problems.
   Revises provisions of McAteer Alcoholism Act and transfers act from Health and
Safety Code to Education Code. Imposes upon Department of Rehabilitation,
rather than Division of Alcoholism of State Department of Public Health, various
duties under the act.
   Deletes provision which terminates act on the 61st day after the final adjournment
of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legislature.
   Appropriates $719,000 to Department of Rehabilitation for expenditure in con-
ducting program functions, and appropriates for expenditure during 1969-70 fiscal
year federal matching funds available to Department of Rehabilitation for program
under provisions of Federal Vocational Rehabilitation Act.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 291 ( S B 470) DYMALLY Amends, amends and renumbers, and repeals
    various sees., U.I.C., re unemployment insurance.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 292 ( S B 668) S H O R T Amends Sec. 51362, W a t . C , re reclamation dis-
     tricts : tax rate.
   Authorizes special tax levy not to exceed $5.00 per $100 of assessed value, rather
than $2.50 per $100 of assessed value, of taxable land and improvements in a dis-
trict less than 100 acres and situated within the plan of improvement for flood con-
trol and other purposes on the lower San Joaquin River.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 293 ( S B 814) COLOGNE Amends, adds, repeals various sees., Prob.C, re
    guardians and conservators.
  Provides for transfer of guardianship proceedings from superior court to ap-
propriate court in another state, and revises provisions dealing with removal of
property of nonresident wards from this state.
                    1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                                47

   Adds procedural requirements with respect to a conservatorship transferred to
another state, including termination of conservatorship estate in this state and
final accounting.
   Makes related and technical changes.
Ch. 294 ( S B 993) C A R R E L L Amends, adds, repeals various sees., S. & H.O., re
     state highways.
  Makes technical changes in descriptions of various state highway routes, including
state highways included in California freeway and expressway system and state
scenic highway system, to conform with changes made by federal government in
national system of interstate and defense highways.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 295 ( S B 1059) W H E T M O R E Amends Sec. 14, Orange County Flood Con-
     trol Act (Ch. 723, Stats. 1927), re Orange County flood control.
   Increases maximum permissible district tax rate from $0.20 per $100 assessed
valuation to $0.30 per $100 assessed valuation for fiscal year between J u l y 1, 1969,
and J u l y 1, 1970, and permits the maximum district tax rate to be changed for a
limited or unlimited period of time by a majority vote of t h e qualified electors of t h e
district, as specified.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 296 (AB 111) R Y A N Amends Sees. 10176, and 10176.1, I n s . C , re dis-
     ability insurance.
   Authorizes the provision or exclusion of payment of psychological expenses in a
disability insurance policy. Prohibits any such policy from prohibiting t h e insured
from selecting any person certified to perform psychological services covered under
the terms of the policy.
   Declares that all disability policies, as of effective date of this act, shall be con-
strued to be in compliance with Sec. 10176, I n s . C , and provisions in policy
in conflict therewith shall be of no effect.
Ch. 297 ( A B 306) CROWN New act, re school elections.
   Allows San Leandro Unified School District and Albany Unified School District
to qualify for a $0.10 tax override for adult education regardless of the inclusion of
"adult education purposes" in the list of purposes for which the tax overrides ap-
pr<*ved on April 9, 1968, and November 5, 1968, respectively, were to be used which
appeared on the ballot.
Ch. 298 ( A B 314) M U L F O R D Amends, repeals various sees., B . & P.O., r e
     professional licensing.
   Provides two members of Social Worker and Marriage Counselor Qualifica-
tions Board shall be state-licensed clinical, rather than state-certified, social workers.
   Clarifies holdover rule re length of term of members of such board where after
appointed term no successor is appointed and qualified by providing t h a t reference
point for measuring one-year extension is expiration date of such term.
   Repeals provision requiring Social Worker and Marriage Counselor Qualifications
Board to transmit biennial report of activities to Governor.
   Provides that Social Worker and Marriage Counselor Qualifications Board rather
than Department of Professional and Vocational Standards shall determine what
is essentially equivalent accrediting agency for purposes of evaluation of educational
qualifications for license for marriage, family or child counselor.
   Makes technical changes.
Ch. 299 (AB 319) M U R P H Y Amends Sees. 3271 and 3800, F . & G.C., re birds.
  Changes the boundaries of Zone A of the licensed pheasant elub zones.
  Extends provision declaring yellow-billed magpies to be nonprotected birds under
designated circumstances until the 61st day after adjournment of the 1971 Regular
Session of the Legislature and thereafter shall have no force or effect.
Ch. 300 ( A B 322) FONG Adds Sec. 24008.5, Veh.C, re modification of vehicles,
  Defines "unsafe condition," as used in those provisions which make it unlawful to
operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is in an unsafe condition, to
include, but not be limited to, the raising of the center of gravity or other modifi-
cation of a vehicle so as to unsafely affect the operation or stability.
48                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 301 ( A B 341) SCHABARUM Amends Sec. 1773.4, L a b . C , re public works
     construction wages.
  Requires Director of Industrial Relations to make a determination of general
prevailing rates of per diem wages in locality within 20 days, instead of 10 days,
after the filing with the director of a verified petition asking for review of the
grounds upon which wage rates have been determined.
  Authorizes extension of the 20-day determination period if such extension is
agreed upon by the director, the awarding body, and all interested parties.
Ch. 302 (AB 357) B R I G G S Adds Sec. 776, I n s . C , re sales of realty: insurance.
   Provides that no person who sells real property shall require, as a condition
precedent to the sale of such real property, that the person buying the real property
negotiate any insurance or renewal thereof covering such property through a par-
ticular insurance agent, insurance broker, or insurance solicitor.
Ch. 303 ( A B 447) F O R A N Amends Sec. 24352.5, H . & S.C., re air pollution
    board compensation.
  Permits per diem compensation of members of board of directors of Bay Area
Air Pollution Control District to be determined by the board but not to exceed $50,
rather than a specified per diem compensation of $25,' and increases the maximum
yearly compensation from $600 to $1,200 of members of board of directors.
Ch. 304 ( A B 457) D U F F Y Amends Sec. 10423, A g . C , re brucellosis eradica-
    tion.
  Deletes provision that article on the slaughter of nonreacting animals exposed to
brucellosis would remain in effect only to October 1, 1969.
Ch. 305 ( A B 463) VEYSEY Adds Sec. 986.36, M. & V.C., re Cal-Vet program:
    service reentry.
  Authorizes Department of Veterans Affairs, with respect to a veteran who after
making a Cal-Vet purchase reenters active service in the armed forces, to waive the
occupancy requirements for the period such person remains in such active service
and for a reasonable period thereafter and to consent to the renting of the property
by such veteran during such period or periods.
Ch. 306 (AB 470) B A G L E Y Amends Sec. 1756, H . & S.C., re emergency medi-
     cal care committees.                                                    •
   Requires emergency medical care committee to submit annual report of observa-
tions and recommendations to county board or boards of supervisors, for comment
only and the areawide comprehensive health planning agency for its area in addition
to submitting such report to Health Planning Council and State Department of
Public Health.
Ch. 307 ( A B 533) SCHABARUM Amends Sec. 53854, Gov.C, re temporary
     borrowing.
   Increases maximum interest rate allowed in temporary borrowing by local agencies
from 6 to 7 percent.
Ch. 308 ( A B 620) B A D H A M Amends Sees. 9831, 9841, B . & P.O., re electronic
     repair dealers.
   Includes the requirement that an applicant for registration as a service dealer
be a person of good moral character and authorizes Director of Professional and
Vocational Standards to refuse to validate the registration of an applicant as a
service dealer or to invalidate the registration of a service dealer if he lacks good
moral character.
   Specifies that a person lacks good moral character only if he represents a poten-
tial danger to persons or property while in a private home.
Ch. 309 ( A B 640) MOBLEY Amends Sees. 29141 and 29141.1, Gov.C, re
     county budgets.
   Requires certain schedules in county budget to show expected expenses of activi-
ties to which they relate, instead of expected expenditures for such activities.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          49
Ch. 310 ( A B 659) B R O W N Amends Sees. 525, 526, W . & I.C., re juvenile
     justice commissions.
   Requires presiding judge of superior court with concurrence of prescribed juvenile
court judge, rather than prescribed juvenile court judge only, to appoint members
of juvenile justice commissions.
Ch. 311 ( A B 680) K A R A B I A N Amends Sec. 1987, C.C.P., Sec. 1328, P e n . C ,
     re witnesses: subpoenas.
   Deletes from prescribed method of serving subpoena upon witness in civil matter,
requirement that original subpoena be shown to witness. Deletes from prescribed
method of serving subpoena upon witness in criminal matter, requirement that
original subpoena be shown to witness personally and t h a t witness be informed of
its contents.
Ch. 312 ( A B 721) D E D D B H Amends Sees. 21801, 21804, Veh.C, re vehicles:
     right-of-way.
  Deletes private roads and driveways from both the provision relating to entering
or crossing a highway from any private property or private road or driveway and
the provision relating to left turns onto alleys, private roads, driveways, or any
private property; combines latter provision into section relating to left turns at
intersections; extends both the combined section and the section relating to entering
or crossing a highway from any private property, to public property.
Ch. 313 ( A B 745) B I L L G R E E N E Amends various sees., L a b . C , re Cali-
     fornia Apprenticeship Council.
  Provides uniform references to California Apprenticeship Council. Makes no sub-
stantive changes.
Ch. 314 ( A B 769) B E V E R L Y Amends Sees. 28405 and 28406, Corp.C., re re-
     tirement systems: regulation.
   Specifies that nothing contained in prescribed provisions relating to regulation
of retirement systems shall be construed to limit or modify exemptions from Retire-
ment Systems Law.
   Requires balance sheet and statement of income required of retirement systems
to be accompanied by report, certificate, or opinion of, rather than be prepared by,
independent certified public accountant or independent public accountant.
Ch. 315 ( A B 840) MOBLEY Adds Sec. 55305, W a t . C , r e county waterworks
     districts.
   Permits the board of directors of a county waterworks district to fix compensa-
tion of not more than $10 per month for the services of its members.
Ch. 316 ( A B 855) B U R K E Amends Sec. 2, Orange County Flood Control Act
      (Ch. 723, Stats. 1927), re Orange County flood control.
   Redefines objects and purposes of district act to include assistance to Orange
County and cities within county in emergency operations to control or mitigate the
effect of tides, waves, and ocean currents on the Orange County shoreline.
Ch. 317 ( A B 902) P O W E R S Amends Sec. 31564, Gov.C, re county retirement.
   Provides that upon withdrawal of district's members in an association established
under the County Employees' Retirement Law of 1937 when there are no existing
retirees, the district's contributions shall be refunded to the district or transferred
to another public retirement system.
   Provides further that if district contributions are transferred to another retire-
ment system employee contributions shall be so transferred also.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 318 ( A B 929) B E L O T T I Amends Sec. 5473.9, H . & S.C., re sewer charges.
  Provides, regarding the compensation to a county for services rendered in
connection with levy, collection and enforcement of sanitation or sewerage systems
charges for entity other than county, that compensation shall not exceed $5 for
each account handled or 1 percent of all money collected, whichever is greater,
rather than 1 percent of all money collected.
50                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 319 ( A B 1048) KNOX Amends Sec. 27442, *Gov.C, re public administra-
     tors, counties.
  Revises provisions concerning, and removes limitation on, fees and charges in-
curred on behalf of estate by the public administrator which are payable by the
county when assets of estate are insufficient therefor.
Ch. 320 ( A B 1071) B E I G G S Adds Sec. 1735.5, I n s . C , re insurance: produo
     tion agencies.
   Authorizes insurance agent, insurance broker, or surplus line broker to offset
funds due insured for return premium on any policy against amounts due him from
same insured for unpaid premiums on same or any other policy. Authorizes any in-
surer to pay return premiums to any agent or broker for such purpose. Provides
that section does not invalidate assignment of return premium made concurrently
with policy issuance as security for financing such premium, nor right of assignee or
his assign to enforce such assignment as prior claim.
Ch. 321 ( A B 1104) D U N L A P Amends Sec. 34290, H . & S.C., re housing au*
     thorities.
   Permits governing body of county or city, as alternative to appointing five com-
missioners of housing authority, to declare itself to be the commissioners of the
authority at any time when it finds t h a t the authority has, for a period of more than
two years, failed to function, as well as at the time of the adoption of the original
resolution declaring need for an authority to function.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 322 (AB 1124) M U R P H Y Amends Sees. 310, 4400, 4403, 4404, Corp.C,
     and Sec. 12199, Gov.C, re corporations.
  Extends effective period of certificate or reservation of corporate name from 30 to
60 days.
  Provides that corporation organized or existing under California law, an ar-
rangement plan of which pursuant to federal law has been confirmed by court
order or decree, has full authority to carry out plan without further action on part
of directors, and that such authority may be exercised by trustee appointed in
arrangement proceeding or other specified person. Makes conforming changes re-
garding filing of a certificate and termination of arrangement.
  Raises fee from $2 to $4 for issuing a certificate of reservation of corporate name.
Ch. 323 ( A B 1179) K N O X Amends Sec. 10270, adds Sec. 10270.2, I n s . C , re in-
     surance.
  Provides that provisions relating to standard provisions in disability insurance
policies shall not apply to, rather than affect, specified insurance policies. Includes
within policies required to meet such provisions selected group disability insurance,
as defined. Specifies other types of insurance to which such provisions shall apply.
  Revises provisions relating to "blanket policy," as defined.
Ch 324 ( A B 1182) KNOX Amends Sec. 34306, Gov.C, re incorporation of
     cities.
   Requires, rather than permits, clerk to assume, in absence of proof to contrary,
that names on last equalized assessment roll are qualified signers of petition to in-
corporate. Provides that, absent fraud, clerk's findings respecting signatories of peti-
tion shall be conclusive.
Ch. 325 ( A B 1276) B B L O T T I Amends Sec. 18757, B . & P . C , re wrestling ex-
    hibition.
  Prohibits the use of the terms "contest" or "match" in any written or printed
advertising, rather than prohibiting the use of such terms in any advertising, for
any wrestling exhibition; and prohibits the use of the term "contest", rather than
the terms "contest" or "match", in any announcement regarding any wrestling
exhibition.
Ch. 326 ( A B 1456) D U F F Y Repeals Sees. 431.6, 431.7, 431.8, and 431.9,
     H . & S.C., re health facilities and services.
  Deletes provisions authorizing the creation of and governing the Hospital and
Related Health Facilities and Services Planning Committee of the Advisory Hos-
pital Council.
* Correction.
                  I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         51
Ch. 327 ( A B 1654) R U S S E L L Amends Sees. 1900, 1902, F i n . C , re bank
      examinations.
   Requires Superintendent of Banks to cause every bank, every foreign banking
corporation doing business in this state, every trust company, and the trust de-
partment of every title insurance company doing a trust business to be examined
a t least once in each calendar year, rather than at least once in each fiscal year.
   Provides that board of directors of every bank and of every trust company, or a
committee thereof, shall examine such bank or trust company a t least once in
each calendar year, rather than at least once in each fiscal year.
   To become operative on J a n u a r y 2, 1970.
Ch. 328 (AB 1800) D E N T Amends Sees. 12364, 12365 and adds Sec. 12367,
      P.TJ.C, re municipal utility districts.
   Broadens authorization of retirement board of the Municipal Utility System to
invest funds in corporate securities and bonds. Requires board to use "prudence in
such investments." Authorizes board to appoint a custodian for any invested securi-
ties.
Ch. 329 ( S B 1240) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 186, adds Sec. 186.1, S. & H.C., re
     State Highway Fund expenditures.
   Increases from 1 cent to 1.25 cents until June 30, 1970, with amount reverting
to 1 cent thereafter, per gallon tax on motor vehicle fuel and on use of fuel as
maximum net revenue which may be expended by Department of Public Works
and California Highway Commission for general administration purposes and'
maintenance purposes.
   Provides that expenditures resulting from payments of insurance against and
for tort claims and judgments are not to be considered expenditures for admin-
istration purposes.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 330 ( A B 931) M I L I A S Adds Sec. 270, H . & S.C., re physically handi-
    capped children.
  Prevents state services from being denied to handicapped children placed for
adoption on the basis of adopting parents' income, and eliminates requirement of
payment of costs of services by the adopting parents. Applies only to physical
handicap present and diagnosed at the time of adoption.
  To become operative J u l y 1, 1969.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 331 ( S B 64) B U R G E N E R Amends and repeals various sees., E d . C , re-
     public schools: financial support.
   Deletes provisions requiring adjustment in assessed valuation of school districts
and reducing equalization aid, supplemental support, and transportation allowances
to school districts due to receipt by such school districts of federal funds under
Public Law 81-874 and revises provisions concerning reductions because of dis-
tricts' receipt of miscellaneous funds to require 50 percent thereof to be considered
for those purposes.
   Declares legislative purpose in revising provisions.
   Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
Ch. 332 ( S B 85) COOMBS Amends Sees. 4107, 4110, adds Sec. 4107.5, Gov.C. t
     re subcontractors.
  Permits authority awarding contract to consent to substitution of subcontractors
when the subcontractor: was named through clerical e r r o r ; is not licensed; does
work which is determined to be substantially unsatisfactory by the awarding au-
thority.
  Provides that the prime contractor shall be entitled to a public hearing before
awarding authority may cancel contract or assess penalties.
   Prescribes procedure for determination of inadvertent clerical error and requires
the awarding authority, after a public hearing and in the absence of compelling-
reasons to the contrary, to consent to the substitution of the intended subcontract
tor under specified circumstances.
52                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 333 ( S B 120) T E A L E Amends Sec. 15518, E d . C , re school buildings.
   Extends termination date of provision authorizing tax for expenses incurred in
the inspection or repair of school buildings respecting earthquake safety from July
1, 1970, to July 1, 1975.
   Permits school district to accumulate excess proceeds of such tax from year to
year until July 1, 1975, rather than requiring that it spend excess amount in
the succeeding school year.
Ch. 334 ( S B 236) H A R M E R Amends Sec. 3100, E d . C , re school district uni-
    fication.
  Revises standards with respect to pupil enrollment under which State Board of
Education may approve the unification of school districts maintaining grades kin-
dergarten or 1 through 12, to authorize approval of less than 10,000 a.d.a. districts
under specified circumstances.
Ch. 335 ( S B 267) K E N N I C K Repeals Sec. 1827, W . & I.C., re probation
     services.
  Allows state aid for probation to continue rather than end 91 days after ad-
journment of 1969 session as before.
Ch. 336 ( S B 270) H A R M E R Adds Sec. 2193.1, B . & P.C., re practice of
     medicine.
  Requires that a graduate of a foreign medical school, except a Canadian school,
who meets certain prescribed requirements, be granted a physician's and surgeon's
certificate if he passes an oral examination.
Ch. 337 ( S B 293) B E 1 L E N S O N Adds Sees. 7451.2 and 7460, E d . C , re re-
     gional occupational centers.
  Allows credits earned from courses completed in a regional occupational center
or regional occupational program to be applied toward fulfillment of requirements
for a high school diploma.
   Authorizes governing board of district maintaining a regional occupational cen-
ter to confer a high school diploma upon any pupil who attends a center main-
tained by the district full time and has satisfactorily completed the prescribed
course of study of school district of residence or prescribed course of study of county
superintendent of schools, school district, or school districts maintaining such center.
   Prohibits instruction in regional occupational center except by qualified certifi-
cated teacher.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 338 ( S B 387) CUSANOVICH Amends and renumbers, adds, repeals, vari-
    ous sees., Veh.C., re towing and loading equipment.
   Revises provisions relating to towing and loading equipment.
Ch. 339 ( S B 422) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 632, C.C.P., re judicial findings and
     conclusions.
  Increases from $500 to $1,000 the maximum amount in demand or value of prop-
erty in controversy in municipal courts, for which the court is not required to make
written findings of fact and conclusions of law.
Ch. 340 ( S B 434) T E A L E Amends Sec. 23010, Gov.C, re loans by counties.
  Includes community services districts among those entities to which counties may
loan moneys.
  In effect immediately,
Ch. 341 ( S B 458) CUSANOVICH Amends, renumbers, adds various sees.
     Veh.C, re motor vehicles: lighting equipment.
  Provides that any motor vehicle may use foglamps mounted upon it with, but
not as substitute for, headlamps, rather than with lower headlamp beams subject
to prescribed limitations.
  Requires every motor vehicle which is not in combination with any other vehicle,
rather than every vehicle operated singly, to be equipped with lighted taillights and
with stoplamps mounted on rear.
  Authorizes equipping of vehicle with white or amber reflectors on front of vehicle
within specified heights.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           53
  Authorizes lighting equipment required or permitted on vehicles to be mounted on
load carried by vehicle in lieu of or in addition to, such equipment on vehicle if
specified requirements are met.
  Prohibits lamps on vehicles carried as load from being lighted, unless such
lamps are mounted in the specified manner.
Ch. 342 ( S B 466) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 68097.2, Gov.C, re expenses
    for certain witnesses.
  Provides party subpoenaing specified peace officers shall reimburse employing
public entity $45 per day for each day that officer is required to remain in attendance
under subpoena, rather than $25. Provides for refund if actual expenses are less.
  Incorporates additional changes proposed by S B 445 to Section 68097.2, Gov.C,
to be operative only upon enactment of SB 445.
Ch. 343 ( S B 488) T E A L E Amends Sees. 24300, 24304, Gov.C, re county of-
     ficers.
   Includes road commissioner and surveyor among those county offices that may have
duties consolidated.
   Authorizes the consolidation of duties of the sheriff, coroner, and public admin-
istrator into one office and those of treasurer, tax collector, and public administrator
into one office in certain counties.
Ch. 344 ( S B 553) C O L L I E R Amends Sees. 1622 and 2113, S. & H . C , re
     streets and highway funds.
   Requires cities and counties to deposit into special gas tax street improvement
funds or road funds, respectively, for street or road purposes, the interest re-
ceived from investment of money in such funds.
Ch. 345 ( S B 574) G R U N S K Y Amends Sees. 396b, 399, 585, 586, and 1014,
     C.C.P., re civil procedure.
   Authorizes court having jurisdiction of subject matter of action or proceeding
but not proper court for trial thereof to try case where commenced unless defendant,
at his option without answering or demurring and within the time otherwise
limited to plead, as well as at the time he answers or demurs, moves such court
for transfer to proper court.
   Prevents taking of judgment against defendant by default in cases where such mo-
tion to transfer has been filed. Authorizes taking of judgment against defendant
if such motion to transfer is denied and defendant fails to answer complaint within
time allowed by court or if such motion to transfer is granted and defendant fails
to answer complaint within specified time.
   Requires clerk of court transmitting papers and pleadings pursuant to any order
transferring action or proceeding, and clerk of court to which action or proceeding is
transferred to mail specified notice to all parties who have appeared in such action
or proceeding.
   Provides that defendant appears when he files a notice of motion for an order
transferring the action or proceeding to the proper court from a court having juris-
diction of the subject matter thereof.
Oh. 346 ( S B 598) C A R R E L L Amends Sec. 11102, Veh.C, re driving school op-
    erators : requirements.
  Revises requirements which a person must meet to qualify to operate a driving
school.
Ch. 347 ( S B 605) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 74519, Gov.C, r e San Francisco
     Municipal Court.
  Increases additional filing fee in San Francisco Municipal Court from $7 to
$9.50.
Ch. 348 ( S B 640) D E U K M E J T A N Amends Sec. 1720, W. & I.O., re Youth
     Authority Board.
  Provides that term of board member appointed in 1970 shall expire May 15,
1972, and that of the four board members appointed in 1971, two terms shall ex»
pire March 15, 1974, and two terms shall expire March 15, 1975.
 54                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 349 ( S B 722) B B I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 5474.21, H. & S.C., re sanitation.
  Expands definition of "food crop" for purpose of provisions dealing with food
crop growing and harvesting sanitation to include all fruits and vegetables in-
tended for human consumption, rather than such fruits and vegetables as specified
by reasonable regulations.
Ch. 350 ( S B 906) G R U N S K Y Amends Sec. 233, C.C.P., re justice court
    jurors' fees.
  Provides that jurors' fees prescribed for attending justice courts shall be $5 for
each day's attendance as a juror rather than $5 per day for each juror sworn.
Ch. 351 ( S B 928) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 6007, B . & P.C., re attorneys.
  Deletes obsolete reference section.
Ch. 352 ( S B 1031) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sees. 29 and 62, Ch. 549, Stats.
     1955, re Montalvo Municipal Improvement District.
  Raises salary of directors of Montalvo Municipal Improvement District from $15
per meeting not exceeding $30 per month, to $30 per meeting not exceeding $120
per month, raises maximum contract district can enter without bid from $2,500
to $3,500.
Ch. 353 ( S B 1274) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 1803.7, Civ.C, re retail install-
     ment contracts.
  Requires with respect to retail installment contracts, subject to "Unruh Act,"
that seller give buyer, at time of buyer's signature, a legible copy of contract or
other document buyer has signed at request of seller, and provides that penalties
applicable, generally, to such contracts, including criminal sanctions, are applicable
to a violation of this requirement, rather than merely requiring seller to deliver, or
mail, copy of contract to buyer without specifying a time limit for such delivery
or mailing.
Ch. 354 ( S B 1318) S H O R T Adds Sec. 31000.3, Gov.C, re county contracts
     for services.
   Provides that counties contracting for special services may provide in such con-
tracts that compensation is to be deferred. Sets conditions for deposit of funds s a
deferred.
Ch. 355 ( S B 255) C O L L I E R Budget Act of 1969.
  Makes appropriation for support of state government for 1969-1970 fiscal year.
Ch. 356 ( S B 740) D O L W I G Repeals Sec. 349.4, and adds Sec. 349.4, C.C.P.;
     repeals Sec. 55187 and adds Sec. 55187, W a t . C , re validation by local agencies.
   Makes procedure for validation of acts and proceedings of local agencies taken
under color of law for specified purposes applicable to acts and proceedings here-
after taken, as well as to act and proceedings heretofore taken.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 357 ( S B 1417) M A R K S Amends Sec. 1241.7, C.C.P., re eminent domain.
   Establishes a rebuttable presumption that the most necessary public use for
property appropriated for public use as a state, regional, county, or city recreation
area, wildlife or waterfowl refuge, or historic site is such use. Declares that when
property appropriated for such use is sought to be acquired for state highway
purposes, and was so appropriated prior to initiation of highway route relocation
studies action for declaratory relief may be brought only by public agency owning
such property to determine most necessary public use for the property. Makes con-
forming changes.
Ch. 358 ( A B 85) C H A P P I E Amends and adds various sees., Placer County
     W a t e r Agency Act (Stats. 1957, Ch. 1234), re Placer County Water Agency.
   Provides for the deposit of certain funds in the agency treasury rather than the
county treasury. Prohibits combining of agency offices of treasurer and auditor.
Authorizes agency board to establish a revolving fund for use of any officer or
employee and prescribes procedure for establishment and operation of such funds.
Makes related changes.
  Authorizes board to create an advisory council, as prescribed, to assist arid
advise board, and prescribes compensation to be paid members of such council.
  Jn effect immediately.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         55,
Ch. 359 ( A B 334) VBYSEY Amends Sec. 3255, E d . C , re school district tax
     rates.
   Makes mandatory, rather than permissive, that county committee school district
reorganization proposal include authorization for new maximum tax rate for pro-
posed new district; and includes in the elements to be used in determining such
rate the revenues required to provide for specified salary differentials resulting
from the reorganization.
   Provides that maximum tax rate also be based upon maximum tax rates and
equalization aid of component districts as they were in effect in the school year
prior to fiscal year in which the election was held rather than in school year
immediately preceding the date upon which the reorganization would be effective
for all purposes.
Ch. 360 (AB 426) MONAGAN Amends Sec. 71140, Gov.C, re municipal and
       justice courts.
    Requires that judges, constables, and deputy constables of a justice court rather
t h a n judges, officers, and attaches, be residents eligible to vote in the judicial
district or city or county in which they are elected or appointed for a t least 54
days prior to election or appointment.
Ch. 361 (AB 563) T H O M A S Amends Sees. 14000 and 14001, F . & G.C., r e
     Pacific Marine Fisheries Compact.
  Changes the schedule of contributions by the member states of the Pacific Ma-
rine Fisheries Compact and enlarges the compact to provide for the States of Alaska
and Idaho to join.
Ch. 362 ( A B 653) F O B A N Amends Sees. 1529 and 1534, P e n . C , r e search
     warrants.
  Provides that a search warrant executed within 10 days after date of issuance
shall be deemed to have been timely executed and no further showing of
timeliness need be made, and makes related changes.
  Removes from search warrant "form?' certain requirements relative to immediacy.
Ch 363 (AB 688) P O R T E R Amends, amends and renumbers, and adds various
     sees., W a t . C , re dam supervision fees.
  Revises schedule for fees which must accompany the application for the approval,
by the Department of Water Resources of the constuction of any new dam or res-
ervoir or the enlargement of any, dam or reservoir. Requires payment of an annual
fee, as specified, by owners of dams by December 3 1 , 1970,, and December 31 of each*
succeeding year, based upon the height; of the dam, and prescribes penalties for
failure to pay such fee by required date. Makes related technical changes.
Ch. 364 (AB 722) D E D D E H Amends* Sec. 22450, Veh.C, re vehicle special
     stops.
  Revises provisions requiring that vehicles stop when approaching a stop sign in
specified areas.
Ch. 365 (AB 1022) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 407, P e n . C , re unlawful assem-
    bly.
  Declares that unlawful assembly opcurs when two or more persons assemble
together to do an unlawful act, rather than to do a n unlawful act and separate
without doing or advancing toward it.
Ch. 366(AB 1023) B A G L E Y Amends Sections 27173.5, 27182, 27195, S. & H . C ,
     re bridge and highway district.
  Excludes employee benefit insurance and workmen's compensation insurance, as
well as physical damage insurance covering the bridge structure itseif, from having
to be submitted to public advertising before being awarded to insurance carrier.
   Specifies that advertising required in connection with estimated expenditure in
excess of $15,000 be done in any trade paper of general circulation, rather than in
a weekly one, provided that the required two successive insertions are published no-
more than 1 week apart.
  Makes changes in content of statement certified public accountant is to enclose
in report regarding annual audit of bridge and highway district to each county
auditor of each county within district.
* Correction.
56                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Deletes requirement that claims against district must be approved by auditing
committee consisting of at least 3 members of board of directors of district and
passed by board before payments of claims by auditor even though claims are ap-
proved by general manager.
Ch. 367 ( A B 1402) Z E N O V I O H Adds Sees. 6 1 , 62, Elec.C, re charters: cities
       and counties.
   Requires the clerk of a city or county, as the case may be, in submitting a pro-
posed charter or charter amendment to the Legislature for ratification, to also sub-
m i t : certified copies of publications and notices required by law in connection with
an election to propose or amend a charter, certified copies of arguments for or
against the proposed charter or charter amendment which were mailed to voters,
and a certified copy of the vote a t the election a t which the proposed charter or
amendment was approved by voters.
Ch. 368 (AB 1836) F O N G Amends various sees., R. & T.C., re tax deficiency
     determinations.
  Revises time limitations within which notices of deficiency must be mailed and
claims for increase in deficiency determinations must be asserted with regard to
sales and use tax, motor vehicle fuel license tax use fuel tax, motor vehicle trans-
portation tax and alcoholic beverage tax.
Ch. 369 (AB 1840) F O N G Amends and repeals various sees, of R. & T.C., re
    * property taxation.
  Makes technical and consolidating changes; corrects cross-reference.
Ch. 370 ( A B 1 9 4 6 ) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 9112, Gov.C, re State Capitol.
  Authorizes Joint Committee on Legislative Organization to contract to sell
souvenir pieces of the State Capitol building.
Ch. 371 ( A B 2294) BAGLEY Amends, repeals var. sees., var. codes, re public
     records.
  Revises various provisions of law regarding certain public records with respect
to the California Public Records Act.
Ch. 372 (AB 57) L E R O Y F . G R E E N E Amends Sees. 6799 and 8805, B . &
    P.C., re professional license fees.
  Deletes prescribed minimum fees charged under the Professional Engineers Act.
Deletes prescribed minimum fees charged under the Land Surveyors' Act.
Ch. 733 ( A B 63) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 11018.2, B . & P.O., re subdivided lands.
  Defines "shopping center."
  Requires the Real Estate Commissioner to waive, in writing, expressly zoned
industrial subdivisions which are limited in use to industrial purposes and com-
mercial leases of parcels in a shopping center from the requirement of obtaining
a public report prior to sale, lease, or offering for sale any lot or parcel in a subdi-
vision.
Ch. 374 ( A B 101) D U N L A P Amends Sec. 8.2, repeals Sec. 6.4, Solano County
     Flood Control and W a t e r Conservation District Act (Ch. 1656, Stats. 1951),
     re Solano County flood control.
  Provides that title to water rights or water conservation works, instead of title
to real property, water rights, or water works, shall not be conveyed or alienated
except by a vote of the electors a t an election held for that purpose, and repeals
obsolete provision.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 375 (AB 237) B U R K E Amends Sec. 6505.5, Gov.C, re joint exercise of
     powers.
   Clarifies provision relating to deposit of funds of a separate agency or entity
created by a joint exercise of powers agreement to allow deposit in treasury of
treasurer designated treasurer of agency or entity created.
* Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          57
Ch. 376 (AB 352) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 1709, Corp.C, re corporation acquir-
    ing own shares.
  Expressly authorizes a corporation which acquires its shares upon a merger or
consolidation with a foreign corporation, or upon the distribution of the assets
of a foreign corporation, to carry such shares as treasury stock or to retire such
shares.
Ch. 377 (AB 380) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 16475, P.U.C., re public utility dis-
      tricts.
   Allows districts which furnish water to fix and collect a water standby charge.
Establishes standards for fixing such charges. Provides exemption from such charges
for person whose primary business is the extraction of minerals and who substan-
tially meets his water needs by water furnished by contiguous parcels of land
occupied by him. Provides that proceeds of such charges may be used by the district
for general purposes relating to furnishing of water.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 378 (AB 430) RYAN New act, re state-owned property.
  Transfers from the state to the City of Millbrae the right-of-way in t h a t city
acquired by the state upon the dissolution of a specified highway district. States
that such property is surplus to the state but would be of value to city for street
and highway use.
  Requires that any proceeds derived from sale of such property by the city be
used for street and highway purposes.
Ch. 379 (AB 567) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 576, P r o b . C , re actions for
    partition.
  Eliminates requirement that executor or administrator obtain court order before
commencing and maintaining action against cotenants for partition of property in
which decedent left an undivided interest.
Ch. 380 (AB 641) M O O R H E A D Amends Sees. 4018, 4019, adds Sec. 4018.1,
     repeals Sec. 4019.2, P e n . C , re time off for prisoners.
   Authorizes sheriff, chief of police, or superintendent of county industrial farm or
road camp to order specified deduction of time from period of confinement of per-
sons confined under judgment of imprisonment or fine and imprisonment until fine
is paid, or as condition of probation, in city or county jail, industrial farm, or road
camp, for designated performance of assigned labor for each month, rather than
authorizing same amount of time off for such confined prisoners with consent of
board of supervisors for designated obedience each month to rules and regulations
by board of supervisors under which labor to be performed.
   Authorizes such deduction of time for same classes of prisoners confined in same
correctional institutions when it appears by record that prisoner has given desig-
nated obedience to reasonable rules and regulations established by sheriff, chief of
police, or superintendent for conduct of prisoners, rather than such rules and
regulations established by county board of parole commissioners. Authorizes such
time off with consent of sheriff, chief of police, or superintendent, rather than with
consent of county board of parole commissioners.
   Deletes authorization of county board of supervisors and county board of parole
commissioners to deduct additional time off for each month of confinement of
prisoners in county jail, industrial farm, or road camp when it appears t h a t such
prisoners have satisfactorily performed assigned work as reported and recorded by
officer in charge.
Ch. 381 (AB 725) B E E Amends Sec. 24879, B . & P.C., re alcoholic beverages.
   Defines the standards by which it shall be determined if the wine is same type
when a retailer is permitted to return wine to a seller and exchange it for identical
quantity of the same brand and type of wine and size of container and requires
that the exchanged wine shall have t h e same posted price to retailers as the wine
returned.
58                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 382 ( A B 791) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 12650, Veh.C, re student drivers'
    licenses.
  Increases fro;m 14 years to 15 years, the minimum age of student drivers, taking
a course in automobile driver training maintained under the provisions relating to
the computation of allowances for excess cost of driver training, rather than under
the provisions relating to the instruction in public safety and accident prevention,
who may apply for student drivers' licenses.
Ch. 383 (AB 873) M I L I A S Adds Sec. 3960, repeals Sec. 4300, F . & G.C., re
     game mammals.
  Makes it unlawful to permit or allow any dog to run, track, or trail any antelope
or elk, as well as deer, during the closed season.
Ch. 384 ( A B 9 1 1 ) HOM Amends See. 5909, Veh.C, re transfer of vehiele.
   Specifies that Department of Motor Vehicles is not required to give the prescribed
notice when the transfer of title or interest in or to a vehicle is of a specified
involuntary transfer or prescribed transfers involving the creation of security
interests.
Ch. 385 ( A B 1173) RYAN New act, re junior college construction.
  Reappropriates appropriations made in Budget Act of 1967 for San Mateo Jun-
ior ' College District capital outlay, to be available to construct a science building
and physical education facilities and related site works a t Skyline College in the
San Mateo Junior College District.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 386 ( A B 1294) RYAN Amends Sec. 12510, B . & P.C., re weighing and
     measuring devices.
  Provides person, who by himself or through or for another, willfully and know-
ingly uses in commodity transaction a measuring device designed to automatically
compute price is guilty of misdemeanor unless indicators of quantity and total
computed price thereon are returned to zero prior to beginning each delivery of
commodity.
Ch. 387 ( A B 1508) S C H A B A R U M Amends Sec. 30740.5, P.U.C., re rapid
     transit.
  Substitutes Los Angeles County Registrar of Voters for secretary of the Southern
California Rapid Transit District as the official responsible for providing for the
preparation and the enclosure of arguments for and arguments against measures
enclosed with sample ballots.
Ch. 388 ( A B 1942) C H A P P I E Amends Sec. 16409, P.U.C., re public utility
     districts.
  Authorizes districts to fix and collect charges for water service to make payments
to the United States under any contract between the district and the United
States, and to charge higher rates for water service to any landowner in the amount
required to pay any interest costs charged to the district on any United States
Bureau of Reclamation loan by reason of land held by such owner in excess of
160 acres.
Ch. 389 ( S B 364) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 13162, E d . C , re temporary
     salary certificates.
  Provides that temporary salary certificates issued by counties to teachers whose
credentials are being processed shall be valid for not more than 120, rather than
not more than 90, days in the case of school districts with an a.d.a. of less than
400,000, thereby making this provision uniform as to all school districts.
Ch. 390 ( S B 475) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sees. 23753, 23755, and 24207, E d . C ,
    re state college.
  Changes specified references to state college "semester" to college "term."
Ch. 391 ( S B 476) B E I L E N S O N Repeals Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 24320),
     Ch. 9, Div. 18, E d . C , re state college employees.
   Repeals provisions no longer in effect relating to tenure rights of academic,
teaching, and administrative employees of state colleges.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                            59
Ch. 392 ( S B 568) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sees. 239, 1 0 5 1 ; repeals Ch. 1 (com-
      mencing with Sec. 2501), P t . 2, Div. 1, P.U.C., re food warehousemen.
   Exempts from definition of warehouseman person or corporation owning, con-
trolling, operating or managing a building or structure in which baled cotton is
stored for compensation.
   Expands definition of warehouseman for purposes of provisions regulating public
utilities generally to include persons receiving food commodities from the public
for storage for compensation. Makes applicable thereto existing provisions respect-
ing certification of warehousemen generally. Deletes Food Warehousemen Act.
Ch. 393 ( S B 616) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 35716, Veh.C, re vehicles: high-
     way carriers.
   Provides t h a t city ordinance to decrease vehicle weight limits shall not, in addi-
tion to other specified exceptions, apply to any vehicle owned, leased, operated, or
controlled by any highway carrier regulated by Public Utilities Commission while
transporting any materials to or from public works project when bids were
opened prior to adoption of ordinance, unless alternate direct route is provided by
city substantially within its boundaries.»
Ch. 394 ( S B 718) SONG Amends Sec. 9538, B . & P.C., re sale of dryclean-
     ing business.
  Provides that failure of seller to give required notice in connection with sale of
drycleaning business or equipment of unlicensed person will make seller liable
for any expense or damage caused by failure to give notice rather t h a n make con-
tract null and void.
Ch. 395 ( S B 761) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 25515 and adds an article head-
    ing, E d . C , re public schools.
  Makes technical changes to correspond to present law.
Ch. 396 ( S B 931) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 3672, adds Sec. 3632.5,
    Corp.C, re corporations.
  Provides articles of incorporation of nonstock corporation may be amended, if
bylaws so provide, by vote or written consent of two-thirds of specified policymaking
committee. Makes related changes.
Ch. 397 ( S B 933) SONG Repeals Sec. 6768, B . & P.O., re engineering.
   Deletes provision which required the State Board of Registration for Civil and
Professional Engineers to register without examination in metallurgical engineer-
ing any applicant who applied prior to J u n e 30, 1966, and who met specified quali-
fications.
Ch. 398 ( S B 1057) C A R R E L L Adds and repeals various sees., P.U.C., re ob-
     structions near airports.
  Collects provisions relating to airport obstructions under one article. Updates cerr
tain references to Federal Aviation Administration regulations.
Ch. 399 ( S B 1060) W H E T M O R E Amends Sec. 2985.6, Civ.C, re real prop-
     erty sales contracts.
  I n contracts for sale of land which has been subdivided into residential lot or lots
which contain dwellings for not more than four families, revises provisions relating
to effect of waiver and validity of contract.
Ch. 400 ( A B 77) MONAGAN Adds Sees. 1584.5 and 1584.6, Civ.C, re transfer
       of property.
   Prohibits unsolicited offers to sell goods, wares, or merchandise where offer in-
cludes sending such goods, wares or merchandise not ordered or requested, and pro-
vides that any such goods, wares, or merchandise so sent shall for all purposes be
deemed a gift.
   Provides that if a person is a member of an organization which makes retail
sales of goods, wares, or merchandise to its members, and the person notifies the
organization by certified letter, return receipt requested, of his termination of mem-
bership, any unordered goods, wares, or merchandise sent after 30 days following
execution of return receipt for such letter, shall for all purposes be deemed a gift.
60                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Specifies that if such membership termination results in breach of contract, person
is not relieved from liability for any damages to which he would otherwise be sub-
jected, but he shall not be subject to damages with respect to goods, wares, or
merchandise deemed gifts.
   Provides for actions to enjoin sending of bills for items deemed to be gifts under
this act, including award of reasonable attorneys' fees and costs to prevailing party
in such actions.
Ch. 401 (AB 115) KETCHUM Amends Sec. 12030, Pen.C., re firearms.
   Authorizes law enforcement agencies to retain for use in official duties seized
firearms in lieu of destroying them or to turn them over to criminalistics labara*
tories of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation or of other local
law enforcement agencies for use in official duties. Provides that when such firearms
are no longer used they shall be destroyed.
   Provides that law enforcement agency retaining or destroying such weapons
shall notify Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation of such disposition
including specified description of such weapons.
Ch. 402 (AB 159) CONRAD Amends £ecs. 310, 321, Elec.C, re voter registra-
     tion.
  Permits affiant's social security number to be shown on affidavit of voter
registration. Declares that no person shall be denied the right to register for failure
to furnish his social security number.
Ch. 403 v (AB 189) WAKEFIELD Amends Sees. 11911, 11912, 11913, H. &
      S.C., re restricted dangerous drugs.
   Makes first offense of possession of restricted dangerous drug for sale punishable
 by imprisonment in state prison for not less than two years nor more than 10
years, with minimum of two years to be served before release, rather than by
imprisonment in state prison for not less than one year nor more than three years
or in county jail not exceeding one year. Makes penalties for such first offense and
increased penalties where defendant has been previously convicted one or more
times of specified offenses relating to restricted dangerous drugs generally uniform
with penalties provided for first offense of possession of marijuana for sale and
with increased penalties where defendant convicted of such marijuana offense has
one or more specified prior convictions.
   Makes first conviction of offense relating to transporting, importing, selling,
manufacturing, compounding, or furnishing, administering, or giving away, or
offering to do any of these things, or attempting to import or transport, re-
stricted dangerous drugs punishable by imprisonment in state prison from five
years to life, with minimum of three years to be served before release, rather than
by imprisonment in state prison for not less than one year nor more than five years
or in county jail not exceeding one year. Makes penalties for such first offense and
increased penalties where defendant has been previously convicted one or more
times of specified offenses relating to restricted dangerous drugs generally uni-
form with penalties provided for first conviction of similar marijuana offense and
with increased penalties where defendant convicted of such marijuana offense
has one or more specified prior convictions.
   Makes first conviction of offense relating to dealings with minors involving
restricted dangerous drugs punishable by imprisonment in state prison from 10
years to life, with minimum of five years to be served before release, rather than
by imprisonment in state prison from one year to five years. Makes penalties for
such first offense and increased penalties where defendant has been previously con-
victed one or more times of specified offenses relating to restricted dangerous
drugs generally uniform with penalties provided for first conviction of similar
marijuana offense and with increased penalties where defendant convicted of such
marijuana offense has one or more specified prior convictions. Makes such offense
relating to dealings with minors involving restricted dangerous drugs applicable
to person of. the age of 21 years or older, rather than to any person.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         61

Ch. 404 ( A B 329) B A D H A M Amends various sees., P.U.C., re passenger air
     carriers.
   Deletes requirement for suspending a certificate that hearing must show holder
is no longer fit and willing as well as no longer able to perform the certificated
services. Deletes provision allowing carrier to establish joint rates between points
served by it. Expands provisions allowing exemption, from certificate requirements
to include but not be limited to stated conditions of emergency and cessation of
alternate service. Changes notice requirements for discontinuance of unprofitable
service from 30 to 60 days.
  Revises exception to requirement for certification of passenger air carriers to
exclude those operations of common carriers within the state furnished pursuant
to a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the federal govern-
ment, rather than common carriers who operate within the state p u r s u a n t to a
federal certificate.
Ch. 405 (AB 502) B R I G G S Adds Sec. 172!, P e n . C , re sale of intoxicating
     liquors.
   Exempts from the prohibitions against sale of intoxicating liquors within pre-
scribed distances of university grounds or campus, a sale or offering for sale of
any liquor by a holder of a retail off-sale license, outside one mile measured by
shortest road or roads of the closest building of the Claremont Colleges to the,
place of sale.
Ch. 406 (AB 538) P R I O L O Amends Sec. 704, H . & N.C., re boat owner
    civil liability.
  Permits a seller of a boat to relieve himself of civil liability either by making
proper delivery of the certificate of ownership and certificate of number in ac-
cordance with the Harbors and Navigation Code or by notifying the Department
of Harbors and Navigation of such a sale in accordance with the code, instead of
requiring the seller to meet both requirements in order to avoid civil liability.
Ch. 407 (AB 630) M A C D O N A L D Adds Sec. 7.8, Ventura County Flood Con-
    trol Act (Ch. 44, Stats. 1944, 2nd Ex. Sees.), re Ventura County flood
    control.
  Authorizes Ventura County Flood Control District to install and maintain
landscaping in connection with any flood control or storm drainage facility or
work of improvement within the district or any zone of the district. Specifies
sources of funds which may be used for such purpose,, but limits such expenditures
to not more than 3 percent of the cost of construction of such facility or work of
improvement.
Ch. 408 (AB 679) GARCIA Adds Sec. 14671.5, Gov.C, re lease of state
     property.
   Authorizes Director of General Services to lease state property, under condition
lessee construct parking structure thereon, with facilities constructed thereon to be
leased back to state.
   Authorizes construction of parking structure on specified land.
   Specifies that such parking structures may not be constructed without legisla-
tive authorization.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 409 (AB 687) P O R T E R Adds Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 13030), Ch.
     3, Div. 7, and Sec. 13169, W a t . C , re water quality.
  Authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to adopt regulations gov-
erning the testing, licensing and use of any substance for cleaning up oil in
state waters.
   Provides that the proper use of any such substance shall be supervised and
enforced by the Department of Fish and Game and t h a t any person who violates
any regulation for the use of such substances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   Requires the user to pay to the Department of Fish and Game the cost of its
supervisory and enforcement services and all related administrative and incidental
posts as computed by the department.
62                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 410 ( A B 697) GONSALVES Adds Sec. 172.7, P e n . C , re alcoholic bever-
     ages.
   Exempts from prohibition against sale of alcoholic beverages near university any
licensee within premises occupied by bona fide club meeting specified requirements
located within one mile of Whittier College.
Ch. 411 (AB 796) P O W E R S Amends Sec. 12024.5, B . & P.O., re weights and
     measures.
  Excepts from provision of law relating to the sale by weight of meat, fish or
dressed fowl or rabbit commodities sold or offered for sale by restaurant cooked QT
heated for immediate consumption on or off the premises.
Ch. 412 ( A B 801) B R I T S C H G I Amends Sec. 26207, Gov.C, re rewards.
   Permits board of supervisors to pay from county funds rewards for information
leading to the apprehension and conviction of persons who commit within the county
criminal acts against person or residence of public officer or employee.
Ch. 413 (AB 814) M A C D O N A L D Adds Sec. 6241.1, H . & N.C., re port dis-
     tricts.
  Provides for appointment of commissioners of port districts in Ventura County
by the mayor of the city within the district. Provides for election of Chairman of
the board of commissioners by the commissioners.
Ch. 414 (AB 824) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Amends Sec. 74950 and repeals Sec. 74953,
    W a t . C , re water conservation districts.
  Deletes termination date in regard to specified provisions authorizing water con-
servation districts to issue negotiable promissory notes. Increases maximum in-
terest rate at which such notes may be issued from 6% to 7%.
Ch. 415 (AB 828) P O R T E R Adds Sees. * 54930.2, 54931.1, 54937, Gov.C, re
    maintenance district assessments.
  Permits certain maintenance districts organized prior to May 1, 1969, and county
waterworks districts organized prior to January 1, 1969, to levy taxes commencing
on July 1, 1969, if statement of boundaries and map or plat are filed on or before
May 15 or April 15, 1969, respectively.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 416 (AB 836) L E W I S Amends Sec. 31462, Gov.C, re county employees re-
    tirement law.
  Provides method of computing final compensation of members of County Em-
ployees Retirement Law of 1937 who have less than three years of service.
Ch. 417 (AB 838) L E W I S Amends Sec 21752, Veh.C, re driving on left.
  Prohibits driving on left side of roadway when upon, as well as when approach-
ing, the crest of a grade and when approaching, as well as when upon, a curve
in highway where driver's view is obstructed under specified circumstances.
Ch. 418 (AB 839) L E W I S Amends Sec. 21460.5, Veh.C, re two-way left-turn
    lanes.
  Prohibits a vehicle from being driven in a designated two-way left-turn lane
except when preparing for or making a left turn from or into a highway.
  Provides that the section does not prohibit driving across a two-way left-turn lane.
Ch. 419 (AB 942) M A C D O N A L D Adds Sees. 4746.2, 4746.3, 4746.4, H. & S.C.,
        re county sanitation districts.
    Allows county sanitation district, upon determination of need for funds for main-
tenance and repair of damage caused by disaster, as defined, to borrow and repay
limited amount of county funds for such purposes, and to raise revenue for re-
payment through tax levy. Permits district to borrow from, and loan to, another
district for same purpose. Limits total amount which district may borrow from both
county and another district. States t h a t such funds, when so borrowed, shall in-
crease the appropriations of the district, and allows board of supervisors to
specify time and manner of repayment within defined maximum period. Requires
t h a t district pay interest a t specified rate on such borrowed funds.
    In, effect immediately.
•Correction.
                     1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                               63
Ch. 420 ( A B 1008) MONAGAN Adds Sec. 36070, H . & S.C., re farm labor
    centers.
  Declares that county has all powers granted to housing authorities by F a r m
Labor Center Law.
  In effect  immediately.
Ch. 421 ( A B 1018) W A K E F I E L D Amends heading of Art. 6 (commencing
    with Sec. 2046), Ch. 1, Title 1, P t . 3, and Sees. 2046 and 5003, P e n . C , re
    correctional institutions.
  Changes name of California Medium Security Prison to California Men's Colony.
Augments list of specific prisons and institutions presently under jurisdiction of De-
partment of Corrections.
Ch. 422 ( A B 1068) L E W I S Amends Sees. 779.2 and 10270.505, I n s . C , re in-
     surance.
   Increases minimum period of duration from five to 10 years of loan or other
credit transaction in connection with which credit life or disability insurance is sold
for such insurance to be excepted from general provisions relating to such insurance.
  Eevises conditions under which creditQr group diability insurance may be issued..
Ch. 423 ( A B 1070) L E W I S Amends Sec. 484d, P e n . C , re credit cards.
  Redefines "revoked credit card" to mean a credit card which is no longer au-
thorized for use by the issuer, such authorization having been suspended or termi-
nated and notice thereof having been given to the cardholder, rather than a credit
card for which permission to use it has been suspended or terminated by the issuer,
and notice thereof has been given to, the cardholder.
  Makes technical changes.
  Declares act does not constitute change in, but is declaratory of, existing law.
Ch. 424 (AB 1075) MOORHBAD Adds Sec. 4570.5, P e n . C , re correctional in-
     stitutions : fraudulent entry.
   Makes it a misdemeanor for person to fraudulently identify himself for purpose
of securing admission to premises or grounds of specified correctional institutions
if such person would not otherwise qualify for admission.
Ch. 425 ( A B 1125) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 860, P r o b . C , re e s t a t e s : administra-
    tion.
  Provides that when specified persons petition for authorization to exchange stocks,
bonds, or other securities, as defined, of an estate for other stocks, bonds, or other
securities, court, upon showing of good cause, may order that required notice of
such exchange be given for shorter period than 10 days, or t h a t it be dispensed with.
Ch. 426 ( A B 1171) P O W E R S Amends Sec. 6, American River Flood Control
      District Act (Ch. 808, Stats. 1927), re American River flood control.
   Provides time and manner for filing of nomination papers by candidates for dis-
trict board of trustees shall be same as independent nominations.
Ch. 427 ( A B 1189) D E N T Adds Sees. 38.4, 38.5, and 38.6, Contra Costa
     County Storm Drainage District Act (Ch. 1532, Stats. 1953), re Contra Costa
     storm drainage.
   Establishes alternative procedure for dissolution of a district zone, and specifies
rights and duties upon any such dissolution.
Ch. 428 ( A B 1222) D U N L A P Adds Sec. 653n, P e n . C , re two-way m i r r o r s :
     prohibition.
   Makes a misdemeanor the installation of, or the maintenance after April 1, 1970,
of, two-way mirrors in specified areas such as toilets, locker rooms, fitting rooms,
motel and hotel rooms, with exceptions for certain of such areas in public penal,
correctional, custodial, or medical institutions, in private medical or custodial in-
stitutions, or public or private treatment facilities, in law enforcement buildings,
and in public or private educational institutions. Defines two-way mirror.
Ch. 429 (AB 1264) D U F F Y Amends Sees. 11655.5, 11333, H . & S.C, re drugs
    and marijuana research.
  Deletes requirement that Research Advisory Panel order return of hallucinogenic
drugs to Chief of the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement upon withdrawing its ap-
proval of a research project.
64                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

   Permits persons who, under applicable federal laws or regulations, are, rather
than persons registered and taxed under specified federal provisions and, lawfully
entitled to use narcotics for specified purposes, to lawfully obtain and use narcotics
for specified purposes, upon registration with Chief of the Bureau of Narcotic En-
forcement and approval for use by the Research Advisory Panel.
   In effect  immediately.
Oh. 430 (AB 1378) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 33138, S. & H.O., re Parking
    Law of 1949.
  Raises from 6 percent to 7 percent maximum yield allowed on bonds issued
under the Parking Law of 1949.
  In effect  immediately.
Ch. 431 ( A B 1393) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 709, P r o b . C , re estates:
    pending litigation.
  Deletes condition to relief from late filing of claim against estate respecting suit
pending against decedent at time of his death that an appearance must have been
made in behalf of the decedent as of the time of his death.
Ch. 432 (AB 1418) S I E R O T Y Amends Sec. 5285, P.U.C., re public utilities:'
     household goods.
   Deletes requirement that a carrier's failure to comply with applicable law, regula-
tion or permit must be willful to authorize revocation or suspension of permit.
Ch. 433 ( A B 1433) K E T C H U M Amends Sec. 11908, P.U.C., re municipal util-
     ity districts.
  Raises permissible compensation of members of the board of directors from $20
to $30 for each attendance at board meetings.
Ch. 434 ( A B 1470) M A C D O N A L D New act, re Ventura County waterworks
    districts.
  Provides for merger of Ventura County Waterworks District No. 6 with City of
Thousand Oaks, and prescribes conditions of merger and duties, powers, and re-
sponsibilities of City of Thousand Oaks in relation to such merged district.
Ch. 435 ( A B 1516) CRANDALL Adds Sec. 5008.5, P.R.C., re state park
     system.
   Provides, with respect to a vehicle or vessel parked, placed, or operated in an
area within the state park system in violation of specified laws, rules, or regula-
tions, that the registered owner of the vehicle or vessel is rebuttably presumed to
be the person who parked, placed, or operated the vehicle in such area. Specifies
ways by which such presumption may be rebutted.
Ch. 436 ( A B 1535) LEROY F . G R E E N E Amends Sec. 5640, B . & P.C., re
     landscape architects.
  Makes clarifying nonsubstantive change in provisions relating to landscape ar-
chitecture.
Ch. 437 (AB 1622) B I L L G R E E N E Amends Sees. 902, 905, 908, and 909,
     W. & I.C., re support: wards and minors.
  Provides that county officers designated by board of supervisors, rather than
probation officer, have various duties and responsibilities in respect to provisions
of law relating to support of ward, dependent child, or other minor person.
Ch. 438 ( A B 1676) P O R T E R Amends Sees. 23520, 23522, 23540, 23606,
      Elec. C., re Uniform District Election Law.
   Makes procedural changes with respect to elections held under the Uniform Dis-
trict Election Law.
Ch. 439 (AB 1677) D E D D E H Repeals various sees, Gov.C, re county em-
     ployees' retirement.
  Deletes various superseded and inoperative provisions of the County Employees'
Retirement Law of 1937.
Ch. 440 ( A B 1691) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 10427.1, S. & H.C., re municipal
    improvements.
  Provides that any surplus in an improvement fund under the Municipal Im-
provement Act of 1913 which is to be credited against an assessment payable in
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                            65

installments shall be credited against next unpaid installments rather than prorated
against all unpaid installments. Prohibits payment or credit of surplus in improve-
ment fund until two years after bond proceeds are received.
Ch. 441 (AB 1694) P O R T E B Amends, adds, repeals various sees., Metropoli-
     tan Water District Act, as proposed by A B 1257, 1969 Beg. Sess., r e metro-
     politan water districts.
  Makes numerous changes in law governing metropolitan water districts in regard
to board of directors, duties of district officers, powers of district, district bonds,
collection of district taxes, and changes in district organization.
  To be operative only if AB 1257 of the 1969 Regular Session is enacted.
  Incorporates additional changes proposed by S B 1055 to Sees. 242 and 252,
Metropolitan W a t e r District Act, as proposed by A B 1257, to be operative only
upon enactment of SB 1055.
Ch. 442 ( A B 1701) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 1946, Civ.C, re notice: termina-
     tion of tenancy.
  Permits lessor or lessee of real property t o give notice in writing of termination
of tenancy from month to month by mailing a copy of notice in specified manner-
to other party. Permits lessee to give such notice to agent of lessor to whom lessee
has paid previous month's rent by same manner or by personally delivering copy
to such agent.
Ch. 443 ( A B 1718) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 1658, I n s . C , re insurance.
   Deletes specific provision relating to business addresses of applicants for licenses
to act as life agents.
Ch. 444 (AB 1735) B R I T S C H G I Adds Sec. 38742, A g . C , re dietetic fruit
    yogurt.
  Specifies that dietetic fruit yogurt is yogurt that contains not less than 8 percent
by weight of clean and mature fruit or its equivalent in other forms and t h a t its
milk fat content may be reduced to not less than 1.3 percent and may contain a
harmless edible stabilizer not to exceed 0.6 percent.                           ,
Ch. 445 (AB 1747) A R K L I N Amends Sec. 75.7, S. & H.C., re state freeways.
   Requires the California Highway Commission to include information furnished
by school districts among the factors which the commission must include, in its
report to interested persons and public agencies, as having been considered in de-
termining state freeway locations.
Ch. 446 (AB 1757) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 170, C.C.P., re disqualification of
     judges.
   Requires that a party's written statement t h a t a judge should be disqualified, be
served by the presenting party on each party, or his attorney, who has appeared
in the action or proceeding and on the judge who is alleged to be disqualified.
   Extends from 5 days to 10 days (or 10 days after service of the written state-
ment, whichever is l a t e r ) , the time during which judge may answer written state-
ment t h a t he should be disqualified.
Ch. 447 ( A B 1841) F O N G Amends Sees. 6006.5, 6281, R. & T.C., r e sales
    and use taxes.
  Redefines occasional sale exemption from sales and use taxes.
Ch. 448 (AB 1893) M U R P H Y Amends Sees. 43804, 43805, 43806, 43807,
     Ag.C, re apples.
  Deletes provisions t h a t define and specify t h a t certain bruises do not constitute
serious or appreciable damage as relates to the grading of apples. Specifies t h a t
bruises that are necessarily caused by proper sorting or packing do not prevent an
apple from being graded a particular grade.
Ch. 449 ( A B 1915) R U S S E L L Amends Sees. 68, 69, 72, and adds Sec. 72.1,
     Antelope Valley-East Kern W a t e r Agency Law (Ch. 2146, Stats. 1 9 5 9 ) , r e
     water agency bonds.
  Increases maximum permissible interest r a t e of district bonds from 5 to 6 per-
cent, and authorizes district board to issue general obligation bonds of an im-
provement district, in an amount not to exceed the unissued balance of the principal

     3—L-2180
66                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

amount of certain previously authorized bonds, without a vote of district electors,
subject to specified conditions.
Oh. 450 (AB 1987) HARVEY JOHNSON Amends Sec. 7, adds Sees. 7.1, 7.2,
     7.3, and 7.4, Los Angeles County Flood Control Act (Ch. 755, Stats. 1915), re
     Los Angeles flood control.
   Authorizes board of supervisors to divide the principal amount of any bond
issue authorized following January 1, 1970, into two or more series, and to fix
different maturity dates for each series, as specified. Authorizes board to provide,
in regard to any bond issue authorized following January 1, 1970, for the call
and redemption, as specified, of all or any part of the bonds on any interest
payment date prior to their fixed maturity at their par value plus a specified pre-
mium, if any, and accrued interest. Requires notice of redemption to be published
as provided in the resolution of the board providing for the issuance of the bonds,
and provides that interest on such bonds shall cease after the date fixed for redemp-
tion if funds are made available for the payment of the principal, interest, and
premium on the bonds called.
   Authorizes board, as to any bond issue authorized following January 1, 1970,
to issue refunding bonds in a principal amount sufficient to provide funds for
payment of all bonds to be refunded and in addition for payment of expenses
incident to the calling, retiring, or paying of outstanding bonds and the issuance
of refunding bonds, as specified.
Ch. 451 (AB 2024) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Amends Sec. 143.1, S. & H.C., re high-
    way construction funds: expenditures.
  Permits cooperative projects or day labor work, as other construction contracts
are allowed, to commence on or after January 1 preceding beginning of fiscal year
for which funds are available for such projects or work.
Ch. 452 (AB 2063) KNOX Amends Sec. 35561.4, Gov.C, re city boundaries.
  Requires notice of hearing to exclude uninhabited territory from city to be
published once, not less than 10 days prior to hearing.
Ch. 453 (AB 2250) MILIAS Amends Sees. 9160, 9210, 9444, Elec.C, re po-
     litical parties.
   With respect to the Republican Party and other qualified political parties other
than Democratic Party:
   Removes from state central committee the 20 county central committee chair-
men who were delegates to state convention.
   Provides that the first meeting of state central committee shall be held on date
designated by committee chairman, rather than third Sunday of January follow-
ing general election, but not less than 15 nor more than 45 days after the organi-
zational meetings of the county central committees.
   Requires county clerk, rather than county central committee, to notify Secretary
of State of newly elected committee chairman. Requires the notification to be
made within three days after committee meets, rather than within three days after
election of a chairman.
Ch. 454 (AB 2251) MILIAS Adds and amends various sees., Elec.C, re po-
     litical parties.
  Requires vacancies in state conventions to be filled by county central com-
mittees not less than six weeks prior to the state conventions.
  Requires vacancies in state central committees to be filled not less than three
days prior to the first state central committee meeting.
Oh. 455 (AB 2253) MILIAS Amends Sec. 8103 and adds Sees. 8742.5 and
     9242.5, Elec.C, re state central committees.
  Requires Secretary of State to immediately forward any proxy filed with him
to the chairman of the state central committee or his designate.
   Deletes requirement that Secretary of State deliver to state central committee
chairman a certified alphabetical list of persons designated as proxies by new
members, together with all proxies received preceding day of committee meeting.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        67
Ch. 456 ( S B 627) P E T E I S Amends Sec. 5554, P.R.C., re regional park dis-
    tricts.
  Requires board of directors of a regional park district to show the receipts and
disbursements and balance of assets and liabilities of such district, rather than
the receipts, and their source, and the disbursements and their purpose, in the
annual publishing of the audit of the financial condition of the district.
Ch. 457 ( S B 806) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 26616, Gov.C, re sheriffs.
  Authorizes sheriffs to charge fee sufficient to cover costs of furnishing reports
on certain private investigators and adjuscers.
Ch. 458 ( S B 1279) WAY Repeals Sec. 3.5, Ch. 146, Stats. 1966 (1st Ex.
     Sess.), re school district organization.
   Eliminates 1969 termination date re statutory provisions providing for organiza-
tion and composition of county committees on school district organization.
Ch. 459 (AB 107) A S S E M B L Y C O M M I T T E E ON H E A L T H AND W E L -
     F A R E Amends Sees. 4200, 4201, 4202, 4203, adds Sec. 4202.5, W . & I.C.,
     re state hospitals.
   Replaces boards of trustees of state hospitals with advisory boards for each
state hospital, appointed by Governor from list submitted by boards of supervisors
of counties within each hospital's designated service area, and a t hospitals pro-
viding services for both the mentally disordered and mentally retarded, requires
separate advisory board for each program. Requires board to organize and elect a
chairman, to meet at least once every three months and at call of chairman or
majority of the board as well as call of head of Department of Mental Hygiene-
or the medical director.
   Requires chairmen of hospital advisory boards to meet annually with hospital
medical directors, community mental health program directors and directors of
regional centers for the retarded.
   Provides that neuropsychiatric institutes' advisory board members hold office
for a term of three, rather than four years.
Ch. 460 (AB 340) S C H A B A R U M Amends Sec. 11770, I n s . C , and Sees. 72,
     141, 3070, Lab.C., re compensation of state officials.
  Raises per diem of members of Industrial Welfare Commission, directors of S t a t e
Compensation Insurance Fund, members of the Industrial Safety Board, and mem-
bers of the Apprenticeship Council from $20 per day to $25 per day.
  Provides for per diem of members of Apprenticeship Council for certain hear-
ings and for meetings of other committees established by the eouneil and approved
by the Director of Industrial Relations, in addition to meetings of the council.
Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 3070, Lab.C. proposed by AB 745, to be
operative only upon enactment of AB 745.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 3070, Lab.C. proposed by A B 2220, to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 2220.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 3070, Lab.C. proposed by both A B 745
and A B 2220, to be operative only upon enactment of both AB 745 and A B 2220.
Ch. 461 ( A B 469) B A G L E Y Amends Sec. 14290, Elec.C, re residency for
    voting.
  Requires residence of wife to be determined independently of husband's resi-
dence.
Ch. 462 (AB 576) M O O R H E A D Amends Sees. 755 and 772, adds Sec. 760.5,
     P r o b . C , re sales of personal property.
   Provides title to tangible personal property of estate passes to purchaser a t
public sale on receipt of price and delivery to buyer without necessity of confirma-
tion of sale by court. Provides executor or administrator is responsible for actual
value of such property so sold unless court approves sale after sworn return and
proper showing made by such personal representative.
   Empowers executor or administrator to contract with bona fide auctioneer for
sale of such property with reserve at public sale, and to pay commissions and ex-
penses to auctioneer from proceeds. Provides no liability against estate or personal
liability against the executor or administrator other than obligations to purchaser
shall arise until court approval of such sales. Provides such property of two or
more estates may be sold at same public sale.
68                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 463 (AB 983) W I L S O N Adds Sec. 25504.5, Gov.C, re county property.
  Permits county purchasing agent, with the approval of the county board of su-
pervisors and after giving published notice, to sell county electronic data processing
equipment on condition that equipment be leased back to county.
Ch. 464 ( A B 1012) F O R A N Amends Sec. 716, I n s . C , re insurance: certificates
     of authority.
   Revises and expands the class of applicants for certificates of authority to en-
gage in insurance business in state that are exempt from prohibition against grant-
ing such certificates to foreign or alien applicants that have not actively transacted
for three years the classes of insurance for which it seeks to be admitted.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 465 ( A B 1523) B A D H A M Adds Sec. 130, B . & P.O., re terms of office.
  Provides that the first appointment following the expiration of a term of office
of a member of specified board or committee on or after effective date of act shall
be for a term expiring on J u n e 1st of the third year after the expiration of the
previous term and thereafter each such office shall be for a term of 4 years expiring
on June 1st.
Ch. 466 ( A B 2064) K N O X Amends Sees. 13948, 13952, 13953, H . & S.C., re
     fire protection districts.
   Deletes provisions permitting city or portion thereof to be included in district
formed pursuant to Fire Protection District Law of 1961. Requires filing with
tax levying authority of the district, of copy of any ordinance withdrawing city
territory from district under provisions of such law.
Ch. 467 ( A B 2249) M I L I A S Amends Sees. 8834, 9334, Elec.C, re county cen-
     tral committees.
  Requires the chairman of county central committees to notify the state central
committee chairmen of appointments made to fill vacancies in county central com-
mittees.
Ch. 468 ( S B 788) SONG Amends Sec. 1388.2, Civ.C, re powers of appoint-
     ment.
  Provides that no power of appointment affecting real property, where creating
instrument has been previously recorded or where creating instrument was a will
and order or decree of distribution has been previously recorded, shall be terminated,
in whole or in part, as to such appointive real property by execution of release of
such power until such release is recorded in county where such appointive real
property is located.
Ch. 469 (AB 87) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 10655, W. & I . C , re employment of
     welfare recipients.                                         .
   Authorizes a county welfare department to refer a welfare recipient to a private
employment agency at the same time the recipient is referred to the State Depart-
ment of Employment. Authorizes county welfare department to enter into contracts
with such agencies under such terms and conditions and for such rates as county
department deems reasonable; except that it may not contract again for six months
from the original date of placement of a recipient once the recipient has been
placed in employment and no such contact shall result in the recipients paying any
fee.
Ch. 470 ( A B 448) M c G E E Amends Sec. 75104, Gov.C, re judges' retirement
     law.
   Provides that when a judge who has left the bench and who had elected to
leave contributions in the Judges' Retirement Fund, as provided under the Judges'
Retirement Law, dies prior to age 65, his accumulated contributions shall be paid
to a designated beneficiary.
Ch. 471 ( A B 476) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 11580.1, I n s . C , re automobile lia-
    bility insurance.
  Provides that notwithstanding provisions of Vehicle Code, relating to civil liability
of private owners of motor vehicles, in addition to other similar provisions, an
insurer and any named insured may, by the terms of a policy of insurance between
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                            69

them or by separate writing, agree that policy shall not provide coverage while,
the motor vehicles are being used by a n a t u r a l person or persons designated by
name.
Ch. 472 ( A B 594) STACEY Amends Sec. 36125, Veh.C., re registration: im-
     plements of husbandry.
   Provides that, with regard to service charge for application to obtain identifica-
tion plates for specified implements of husbandry, the payment for original or
renewal applications shall be a $4 service charge in 1970 and a $3 service charge
in 1971, with such permits to expire in 1972. Specifies service charges for subse-
quent years commencing with 1972.
Ch. 473 (AB 860) B E I 6 G S Amends Sec. 1944, L a b . C , re alien employment.
   Excepts from provisions limiting employment by public agencies of noncitizens,
student assistants or interns employed by Department of the Youth Authority in
training programs.
Ch. 474 ( A B 906) K N O X Amends Sec. 8729, B . & P.O., re land surveyors.
   Allows land surveying practice to be carried on by partnership or other organiza-
tion not composed entirely of licensed land surveyors or registered civil engineers
if such a surveyor or civil engineer is in charge of all surveying practice of organiza-
tion and prepares or supervises preparation of all surveying work and documents.
Permits land surveying organization to operate under fictitious name or names of'
surveyors and engineers living or dead who are, or were when alive, members of
organization, but requires that if organization name contains name of living member,
then it shall also contain name of member licensed to practice land surveying.
Ch. 475 ( A B 947) D U F F Y Adds Sec. 14022, W . & I.C., re medical assistance.
  Enacts Medi-Cal conflict of interest law which prohibits payment under Medi-Cal
to a provider of service or to a facility or organization in which he or his im-
mediate family have a significant beneficial interest, for services rendered in con-
nection with the referral of a recipient, unless there is on-file with the director and
Health Review and Program Council a statement of such interest.
Ch. 476 ( A B 1078) B R I G G S New act, re school district tax rate.
   Permits joint school district included within territory to which an areawide
foundation program is applicable to increase school district tax rates for 1969-1970,
fiscal year by amount Sufficient to recover any loss of revenue because of. omission
to levy the maximum tax rate during the 1968-1969 fiscal year.
   In effect  immediately.
Ch. 477 ( A B 1237) VEYSEY Amends Sec. 20021.6, Gov.C, re public em-
     ployees' retirement system.
  Provides that for purposes of membership in the system, "county peace officer"-
shall include the marshal and each regularly employed deputy marshal of a judicial
district.
Ch. 478 ( A B 1494) GONSAI/VES Amends Sec. 816, P e n . C , re arrest w a r r a n t s .
  Provides that when w a r r a n t of arrest has been delivered to peace officer and
person named in warrant is otherwise lawfully in custody of peace officer, w a r r a n t
may be executed by such peace officer or by any clerk of city or county jail acting
under authorization and direction of such peace officer.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 816, Pen.C. proposed by S B 1378, to be
operative only upon enactment of SB 1378.
Ch. 479 ( A B 1682) MOBLEY Amends Sees. 233, 465, 545, V e h . C , re " b u s "
     and "passenger vehicle."
   Revises definitions of "bus," "passenger vehicle," and "schoolbus" for purposes
of Veh.C.
   Excepts from the definition of "schoolbus" a 10-passenger station wagon when
used for transportation of not more than eight pupils and the driver, other t h a n
the regular transportation of pupils to and from a public or private school OB
transportation of mentally retarded or physically handicapped pupils.
70                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 480 ( A B 1790) WAXMAN Amends Sec. 1174, C.C.P., re unlawful de-
    tainer : public sale.
  Specifies procedure for sale of unredeemed personal property of tenant against
whom judgment in unlawful detainer has been enforced.
Ch. 481 ( A B 2079) K N O X Amends Sees. 1900, 1901, 3905 and 4117, Corp.C,
     re corporations.
   Provides that a portion of consideration received for no par stock with liquida-
tion preference, as designated by the board of directors, may be credited to paid-in
surplus, rather than requiring all such consideration to be credited to stated capital.
   Excepts from general requirement t h a t consideration for no par shares be credited
to stated capital, any surplus resulting from sale of corporation's assets or merger
or consolidation t h a t may, in accordance with generally accepted accounting prin-
ciples, be entered as earned or paid-in surplus.
   Provides that excess consideration received from issue of par value shares may,
in event of sale of corporation's assets or merger or consolidation, be entered as
earned or paid-in surplus.
   Provides that surplus resulting from sale of corporation's assets or merger or
consolidation may, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
rather than sound accounting practice^ be entered as earned or paid-in surplus.
Ch. 482 (AB 413) P O R T E R Amends, adds, and repeals various sees., W a t . C ,
     B. & P.C., Gov.C, and H. & S.C., re water quality.
  Revises generally laws governing water quality and water pollution control, in-
cluding provisions relating to the State Water Resources Control Board, regional
water quality control boards, the W a t e r Quality Advisory Committee, state financial
assistance for water pollution control, waste water reclamation and reuse, and
other related matters.
  Appropriates $84,000 to State W a t e r Resources Control Board for purposes of
act.
   Operative J a n u a r y 1, 1970.
Ch. 483 ( A B 464) S T U L L Amends Sec. 5001.5, P.R.C., re underwater parks.
  Adds underwater parks, as defined, to classification of units in the state park
system.
Ch. 484 (AB 629) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 11102, W. & I . C , re public
     assistance: county responsibility.
   Imposes on county responsibility for aid payments on behalf of a person ad-
mitted to state hospital from such county for three years after the person's release
or discharge for persons released or discharged on or after July 1, 1969.
Ch. 485 ( A B 714) VASCONCELLOS Adds Sec. 230.5, Civ.C, amends Sec.
      10433, adds Sees. 10433.2, 10433.3, 10614, H. & S.C., re vital statistics.
    Permits an action to be brought in the superior court of the county in which
 the petitioner resides for the purpose of obtaining for a child adopted by the peti-
 tioner a new birth certificate which specifies thereon t h a t a deceased spouse of the
petitioner who was in the home at the time of the initial placement of the child is a
parent of such child. Provides that in any action for adoption the petitioner may
request that the new birth certificate specify thereon that a deceased spouse of
the petitioner who was in the home a t the time of the initial placement of the child
is a parent of such child. Provides that the inclusion of the name of a deceased
person in a birth certificate shall not affect any matter of testate or intestate
succession and shall not be competent evidence on the issue of the relationship
between the adopted child and the deceased person in any action or proceeding.
    Provides that where both adopting parents were in the home at the time of the
initial placement of the child for adoption the newly amended birth record may
include the names of both adopting parents despite the death of one of the adopting
parents upon receipt of an order from the court granting the adoption which directs
that the names of both adopting parents shall be included in the newly amended
birth record.
   Provides that an adopting parent who has adopted a child for whom an amended
record has been prepared may have another amended record prepared for such
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          71
child upon application if he furnishes a copy of the appropriate court order and
pays the required fee.
  Sets a $5 fee payable to the State Registrar for the preparation of an amended
record.
Ch. 486 (AB 830) M O O R H E A D Amends various sees., V e h . C , re motor ve-
     hicles : financial responsibility.
   Changes from $100 to $200 the minimum amount of property damage for pur-
poses of application of the motor vehicle financial responsibility laws. Makes
related changes.
Ch. 487 (AB 922) L E W I S Amends Sec. 31771, adds Sec. 31676.1, S. & H.C.,
     re vehicle parking districts.
  Allows local legislative body to issue bonds authorized prior to November 13,
1968, under Vehicle Parking District Law of 1943 for period of 24 years at 6
percent interest notwithstanding any previous statements concerning such terms
in ordinance, ordinance of intention, petition, or notice of hearing.
   Requires legislative body to hold public hearing on proposed change in term, in-
terest rate, or maximum interest rate of bonds.
   Authorizes commission of parking district formed pursuant to Vehicle Parking
District Law of 1943, to consist of 3 or 5 members, rather than requiring it to
consist of 3 members.
Ch. 488 ( A B 998) D E N T Amends and repeals various sees., F . & G.C., re
     commercial fishing.
  Authorizes taking of shrimp and staghorn sculpin in specified areas by trawl nets
of no specified minimum mesh size.
   Authorizes taking of mollusks, sand crabs, and shrimp in specified area by
means of specified hand-operated appliances but prohibits taking of freshwater clams
by means of such appliances on any levee or on the berm of any levee.
   Deletes provisions specifying size requirements for prawn and shrimp t r a p s used
in waters south of Point Conception. Extends size requirements for such t r a p s
presently applicable in waters north of Point Conception to waters throughout the
state.
Ch. 489 (AB 1015) B E V E R L Y Amends Sees. 132, 237.5, Civ.C, re civil ac-
     tions./
  Specifies that when interlocutory judgment of divorce has been entered and one
year has expired from date of service of copy of summons and complaint upon, or
appearance by, the defendant spouse, rather than only from date of service of
copy of summons and complaint upon defendant spouse, the court may enter final
judgment granting the divorce.
   Specifies that, in actions for having person under 21 declared free from custody
and control of either or both parents, when court appoints counsel for either minor
or parents, counsel shall receive reasonable sum for compensation and expenses,
the amount of which is to be determined by court. Requires such amount to be
paid by real parties in interest, other than minor, in proportion t h a t court deems
just, unless court finds none of such parties able to afford counsel, in which case
requires such amount to be paid out of county general fund.
Ch. 490 (AB 1025) B A G L E Y Adds Sec. 12597, G o v C , re charitable trusts.
   Provides that the person having the responsibility to comply with provisions of
the Uniform Supervision of Trustees for Charitable Purposes Act relating to reg-
istration and filing of reports shall pay the reasonable expense necessarily incurred
by the state in the investigation and prosecution of any proceeding to secure such
compliance.
Ch. 491 (AB 1143) Z ' B E R G Amends Sees. 117f and 117g, C.C.P., re small
    claims courts.
  Provides trustee in bankruptcy or holder of conditional sales contract who has
purchased contract for his portfolio of investments and who is not an assignee for
purpose of collection may commence action in small claims court.
Ch. 492 ( A B 1326) K N O X Adds Sec. 38793, Gov.C, re powers of cities.
  Authorizes cities to remove, and assess costs of removing, overhead utility lines
in underground utility districts against property as a lien if owner refuses to
remove after notice and within reasonable time.
72                  1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 493 ( A B 1970) W I L S O N Amends, adds various sees., F i n . C , re financial
     institutions.
  Authorizes banks and savings and loan associations to issue and sell securities
which are guaranteed pursuant to specified provisions of the National Housing Act,
as amended.
  Authorizes banks and savings and loan associations to acquire and hold stock
in specified corporations authorized to be created pursuant to the Housing and
Urban Development Act of 1968, and to make investments in a partnership, limited
partnership, or joint venture formed pursuant to specified provisions of such act.
  Authorizes commercial, nondepartmental and savings banks and savings and loan
associations to invest in stock, bonds, debentures, participations, and other obli-
gations of or issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Govern-
ment National Mortgage Association, rather than certain stock, bonds, debentures,
and other obligations issued pursuant to the National Housing Act, as ameneded.
Specifies that limit on investment in such securities by commercial banks shall not
apply to nondepartmental banks.
  Authorizes commercial banks and savings banks to make loans for the purpose
of financing building operations if the term of the loan does not exceed 36 months,
rather than 18 months if secured by a lien on farm or single-family residential
property and 36 months if secured by a lien on other property.
  Changes obsolete references to Federal Reserve Act to refer to successor Federal
Deposit Insurance Act.
Oh. 494 ( A B 2297) B A G L E Y Amends Sees. 11130, 54960, Gov.C, re open
     meetings.
  Authorizes use of declaratory relief to determine applicability of laws relating to
open meetings of state and local agencies, and mandamus or injunction to prevent
violations of such laws.
Ch. 495 ( S B 321) B U R G E N E R Adds Sec. 25413.45, E d . C , re dual office-
     holding.
  Provides that no member of the governing board of a junior college district shall,
during the term for which he was elected, be eligible to serve on the governing
board of a high school district whose boundaries are coterminous with those of the
junior college district.
•Oh. 496 ( S B 768) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 20527.7, W a t . C , re irrigation districts.
   Requires voters in Montague Water Conservation District to be owners of real
property in district and specifies voters need not be district residents. Specifies voting
rights of multiple owners. Authorizes voters or specified legal rerpesentatives to
vote at district elections either in person or by proxy appointed as specified. Provides
any voter eligible to be a member of district board of directors.
  In effect immediately.
Oh. 497 ( S B 1035) M I L L S Repeals Sec. 30122, Elec.C, re apportionment of
     Legislature.
   Deletes obsolete provision permitting any State Senator running for reelection
in 1966 to use the word "incumbent" on the ballot.
Oh. 498 ( A B 293) CROWN Amends Sec. 432.5, H . & S.C., re public health.
   Declares legislative intent regarding provisions in state plan for hospital con-
struction program, relating to relative need of the projects contained therein.
Ch. 499 ( A B 472) BAGLEY Adds Sec. 25457.1, Gov.C, re county contracts.
   Gives boards of supervisors power to delegate to county's administrative officer
or executive officer in an equivalent position authority to execute contracts up to
$2,500, relating to purposes previously approved and budgeted, subject to ratifica-
tion by board, with the exception of contracts for public improvements; where
bidding is required; or where county's purchasing agent, in the case of certain
types of contracts, is authorized to let contracts for purchases.
Ch. 500 ( A B 682) B E L O T T I Amends Sec. 4155, P.R.C., re            firefighters:
     compensation.
   Deletes provision that persons who, upon summons, assist in extinguishing forest
fire shall be paid a t same rate as determined by federal agency for Federal Forest
Service. Specifies such person shall be compensated at the same wage rate, ex-
cluding fringe benefits, as state employees performing like services.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                             73
Ch. 501 ( A B 710) P O W E R S Adds Sec. 31641.7, Gov.C, re county employees
    ' retirement.
   Provides that if a member of the County Employees Retirement Law of 1937
is unable to furnish certain prior county service information, the r a t e of com-
pensation applicable to him at the time he first became a member of the system
after the period to be credited shall be used in computing prior county service.
Ch. 502 (AB 809) B R I G G S Amends Sees. 23800, 23801, B . & P.C., re condi-
     tional alcoholic beverage licenses.
   Allows Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control to place conditions on retail
license upon request of licensee in various situations other than only during or
after proceedings on a petition for a license or protest or for its suspension on
revocation. Includes personal qualifications and conduct of licensee in matters
which such conditions may cover.
Ch. 503 (AB 880) B R O W N Amends Sec. 2193, B . & P.O., re medicine:
     practice of.
   Deletes from the documentary evidence required of an applicant for a physicians
and surgeons license who has graduated from a foreign medical school and is
admitted to practice medicine in the foreign country, documentary evidence which,
would satisfy the State Board of Medical Examiners that he has been issued a
medical diploma evidencing the completion of a required course of medical instruc-
tion and that the foreign country in which he has been licensed admits to practice
therein American citizens who are admitted to practice medicine in some state of
the United States or who have received a diploma from an American medical school.
Ch. 504 ( A B 1154) P A T T E E Amends Sees. 34900, 34901, 34902, Gov.C, re
    mayors.
  Provides that term of office of elective mayor may be two or four years rather
than only four as previously. Authorizes city election on the matter.
Ch. 505 ( A B 1279) H O M Amends Sec. 25509, Gov.C, re county purchasing
     agents.
  Authorizes counties to establish checking accounts for purchasing agents for
purchase of miscellaneous and emergency services and supplies. Provides that
checks drawn on such accounts shall not exceed amounts fixed by board of super-
visors.
Ch. 506 ( A B 1292) B R I G G S Amends and renumbers, adds, repeals various
     sees., I n s . C , re insurance: countersignatures.
   Deletes requirement applicable to certain insurance and insurers t h a t coni
tracts of insurance be executed or renewed through a resident agent or after ap-
proval of such agent and countersigned by such agent.
   Deletes requirement that insurers make verified declaration in certain statements,
that provisions relating to restrictions on underwriting have not been violated.
   Provides standard fire insurance policy form need not include provision for
countersignatures while such signatures not required by law.
Ch. 507 ( A B 1293) RYAN Amends Sec. 31304, W a t . C , re county w a t e r dis-
     tricts.
  Raises the borrowing limits on negotiable promissory notes of a county water
district from $500,000 to $1,000,000.
Ch. 508 ( A B 1304) P A T T E E Amends Sec. 25503.3, B . & P.O., re alcoholic
    beverage licenses: advertising.
  Allows beer manufacturers, as well as other specified persons, to advertise in
a defined type of publication of bona fide food retailer trade association.
Ch. 509 ( A B 1334) H A Y E S Adds Sec. 11006.2, W . & I . C , re public as-
      sistance.
   Requires that public assistance w a r r a n t s be placed in mail in time for receipt on
first postal delivery day of following month and if holidays and weekends will
delay delivery, requires warrants to be placed in mail in time for receipt on last
postal delivery day of the month except when payment is made bimonthly, requires
74                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

one w a r r a n t be placed in mail in time for reeeipt on 15th day of the month and
if holdiays and weekends will delay delivery requires the warrant be placed in
mail in time for receipt on or before the 15th day of the month.
Ch. 510 ( A B 1367) B R A T H W A I T E Adds Sec. 14659.5, E d . C , re district re-
     tirement salary plan.
  Permits district retirement salary plan to provide for disability retirement of
members after 5, rather than 10 years, of service for members who so retire on or
after July 1, 1969. Requires that plan specify the proportion of the full retirement
salary which the disability retirement salary bears to such salary.
Ch. 511 (AB 1515) CRANDALL Adds Sec. 58, amends Sees. 6113, 6862»
     Elec.C, re petitions and nomination papers.
  Permits candidates for any office to circulate and sign their own nomination
papers.
   Permits persons engaged in circulating nomination papers and recall, initiative
and referendum petitions for signatures, to sign such papers and petitions them-
selves.
Ch. 512 ( A B 1697) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 718, P r o b . C , re       disputed
    claims in probate.
  Recasts provisions relating to reference of disputed claims in probate.
Ch. 513 ( A B 1688) MOBLEY Amends and adds various sees., S. & H.C., re
     public property assessment.
   Makes various revisions in Improvement Act of 1911 provisions re payment of
assessments levied upon certain publicly owned property, including the provi-
sions re the rate and time of payment of the interest thereon, the payment of such
assessments in installments, and the form and contents of the certificates issued
representing such assessments.
   Incorporates in the Municipal Improvement Act of 1913, the provisions of the
Improvement Act of 1911 re the certificates or bonds secured by unpaid assessments
on publicly owned property.
-Ch. 514 ( A B 1813) B E L O T T I Amends Sees. 26724, 26734, 26735, 26743,
     Gov.C, re sheriff's fees.
   Fixes fee for service of various kinds of attachments and executions a t $5.
Increases fee for service of subpoena from $2 to $3.
'Ch. 515 ( A B 1865) L A N T E R M A N Amends! Sec. 74.5, adds Sec. 100.22,
      S. & H.C., re state highways.
   Requires planning commission and legislative body of city or county to hold
 public hearing prior to recommending the adoption of state highway route by
 Legislature, as well as the selection of a state highway location by the Cali-
 fornia Highway Commission.
   Requires city council or board of supervisors to hold public hearing prior to
'entering agreement with Department of Public Works regarding city street or
 county highway in connection with state freeways.
 Ch. 516 (AB 2318) R U S S E L L Adds Sec. 11523.5, I n s . C , re annuities: re-
      insurance.
   Provides that specified certified persons may reinsure their total liability under
 an annuity agreement with admitted insurer for single premium. Provides such
'Certificate holder may reduce amount of its reserve fund under specified conditions.
Ch. 517 ( A B 2337) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 40303, Veh.C, re vehicles.
  Revises provision permitting arresting officer in case where he is not required
to take person arrested without unnecessary delay before magistrate either to
give person arrested 10 days' notice to appear or take him without unnecessary
delay before magistrate under desinated conditions, in application to arrest for
height, width, length, weight or load violation.
                   1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           75

Ch. 518 (AB 136) VEYSEY Kepeals Art. 4.5 (commencing with Sec. 8375),
   ' Ch. 4, Div. 7, and adds Art. 5.6 (commencing with Sec. 5995), Oh. 6,
     Div. 6, Ed.C, re work experience education.
  Changes the article and section numbers of provisions enacted by Ch. 1371 of
the 1968 Stats, to a suitable place in the portion of the Education Code revised in
1968, without substantive change.
  Includes community colleges and community college students in work experience
programs.
  Includes work study programs for high school and community college students
meeting specified criteria in purposes for which appropriation is presently made for
new or expanded work experience education programs in certain high schools.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 519 (AB 200) CULLEN Adds Sec. 13355.5, Veh.C., re minors' drivers'
     licenses: suspension.
   Provides that, upon recommendation of judge of juvenile court, Department of
Motor Vehicles shall suspend immediately, for one year, driver's license of juvenile
found to have committed offense of possession of marijuana or other specified
offenses relating to narcotics, marijuana, and restricted dangerous drugs while
such juvenile was motor vehicle operator.
   Requires judge of juvenile court to report to department such recommendation
and findings immediately.
Ch. 520 (AB 465) BEVERLY Amends Sees. 1121, 1122, 1128, 1135, 1137,
     Pen.C, re juries in criminal cases.
   Authorizes court, both before and after submission of cause to jury, rather than
only before such submission, to permit sworn jurors in criminal cases either to sepa-
rate or be kept in charge of proper officer. Requires court to properly admonish
jurors where jurors are permitted to separate.
   Provides that, after hearing charge, court shall fix time and place for delibera-
tion and jurors shall not deliberate on case except in specified circumstances
together and under charge of sworn officer. Requires court to provide for custody
and safekeeping of items which jurors are allowed to take with them upon retiring
for deliberation.
   Makes conforming changes.
   To be effective only until December 31, 1971.                      >
Ch. 521 (AB 882) BARNES Amends Sees. 13856.2 and 14201.1, and Sees.
     13893 and 14101 as proposed by AB 1728, Ed.C, re State Teachers' Retirement
     System.
  Requires that semiannual contribution of $1 per member of State Teachers'
Retirement System made by employer to pay employer's share of administrative
costs of system be accumulated from year to year in Permanent Fund to pay such
costs.
  Deletes requirement that Retirement Board consider difference between 25
percent of actual cost of administration and the amount to be deposited into the
fund as employer and member contributions for such costs in determining total
contributions for subsequent years.
   Ceases to be operative on June 30, 1973. Incorporates same changes to Sees.
13893 and 14101, Ed.C, as proposed by AB 1728, to be operative upon enactment
of AB 1728.
Ch. 522 (AB 923) BROWN Adds Sec. 131.5, C.C.P.; amends Sec. 1203, adds
     Sec. 1203d, Pen.C, re probation reports.
  Provides that no court shall pronounce judgment on defendant where probation
report is involved, unless court, prosecutor, and defendant or his attorney have
been given copy of probation report at least two days or, upon request of de-
fendant, five days prior to date of consideration of such report by court for purpose
of judgment. Provides that court probation officer to discuss contents of probation
report with defendant who is not represented by an attorney.
  Declares that intent of Legislature, by this act, is not to expedite probation
reports but to give parties adequate time to evaluate them.
76                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 523 ( A B 2350) R A L P H New act, re schools: added state support.
  Expresses legislative intent re Enterprise City School District.
  Appropriates $160,000, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to Enterprise.
City School District to enable district to pay contracted indebtedness, due and
owing, in the 1968-1969 fiscal year.
  Requires Superintendent of Public Instruction to withhold, during 1969-19TO
and 1970-1971 fiscal years, from apportionments from the State School Fund to
the district, an amount equal to the amount actually disbursed, plus interest, to
the district by this act.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 524 ( A B 252) F O R A N Amends Sec. 24074, B . & P.O., fe alcoholic bev-
     erages.
   Grants first priority to specified claims for wages, salaries or fringe benefits of
employees of a seller or transferor of an alcoholic beverage license in distribu-
tion of consideration exchanged for such license when consideration not sufficient
to pay claims of creditors of seller or transferor in full. Specifies that transfer
application shall be accompanied by description of entire consideration.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 24074, B. & P.O., proposed by AB 1588
to be operative only upon enactment 6f AB 1588.
Ch. 525 ( A B 393) M O R E T T I Adds Sec. 25, L a b . C , re sheriffs.
  Defines "sheriff" to include constable and marshal.
Ch. 526 ( A B 407) BILL, G R E E N E Amends Sec. 1426, L a b . C , re fair em-
    ployment practice.
  Provides F a i r Employment Practice Commission may order employers engaged
in unlawful employment practice to take action, rather than affirmative action.
Ch. 527 ( A B 876) B R O W N Amends Sec. 2873, B . & P.C., re vocational
     nursing.
  Provides that any person possessing either the education or the experience, or
any combination of both, rather than only both the education and the experience,
equivalent to accredited training may be licensed as a vocational nurse, where
otherwise qualified.
Ch. 528 (AB 905) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 840, P e n . C , re arrests.
   Provides that, if arrest is made for commission of misdemeanor or infraction,
rather than misdemeanor only, arrest cannot be made between 10 p.m. and
7 a.m. unless (1) arrest is made for offense committed in presence of arresting
officer or private person making arrest, (2) arrest is made in public place, (3)
arrest is made when person is in custody pursuant to another lawful arrest, or
 (4) arrest is made pursuant to w a r r a n t which, for good cause shown, directs t h a t
it may be served day or night, rather than prohibiting such arrests at night, unless
upon direction of magistrate, endorsed upon warrant, except when offense is com-
mitted in presence of arresting officer.
Ch. 529 ( A B 919) D U N L A P Amends Sec. 172, P e n . C , re alcoholic beverages.
   Eliminates prohibition against the sale or exposure for sale of intoxicating liquor
within one and one-half miles of the exterior limits of the land on which is
located the Veterans' Home of Yountville, and exempts such veterans' home
from provision prohibiting sale or exposure for sale of intoxicating liquor within
one and one-half miles of any building actually occupied as a home, retreat, or
asylum for ex-soldiers, sailors, and marines of the Army and Navy of the United
States.
   Hakes technical changes.
Ch. 530 ( A B 988) B E V E R L Y Adds Sec. 24242.5, H . & S.C, re aircraft.
   Prohibits operation of aircraft, as defined, in manner t h a t will result In
discharge into atmosphere of specified air contaminant for period of over 10
seconds in any one hour. Exempts aircraft used in specified agricultural operations
from such prohibition.
   To become operative J a n u a r y 1,1971. .
                   1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                            77

Oh. 531 (AB 1695) MOORHEAD Amends, adds various sees., Fin.C, re
   ' banks.
  Makes various changes in provisions relating to loans to officers, directors, and
employees of banks.
Ch. 532 (AB 2182) VEYSEY Adds Sec. 5991.5, Ed.C, re work experience
    education.
  Authorizes school districts to provide, under work experience and work study
education programs, for employment of pupils in part-time jobs located outside
the district and provides that such employment may be by any public or private
employer. Authorizes school districts to pay wages to persons under such programs
whether assigned within or without the district, except that no payments may be
made to or for private employers, and to provide workmen's compensation insurance
as may be necessary.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 533 (AB 84) CHAPPIE Adds Art. 7 (commencing with Sec. 22185>,
      Ch. 1, Pt. 5, Div. 11, Wat.C, re irrigation district recreational facilities.
   Authorizes irrigation districts to construct, maintain, and operate recreational
facilities in connection with any dams, reservoirs, or other works owned or con-
trolled by the district, and to fix and assess reasonable charges for the use of such
facilities.
Ch. 534 (AB 186) KARABIAN Amends, amends and renumbers, and repeals
    various sees., Ed.C.,. re education.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 535 (AB 236) BURKE Adds Sec. 27129, Ed.C, re school library services.
   Authorizes the governing board of a school district, whose territory is served by
one or more public agencies providing library services, to contract with them for
library services for pupils.
Ch. 536 (AB 389) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 484, Ins.C, re insurance pre-
    miums : cancellation for nonpayment.
  Provides that, notwithstanding acknowledgment in insurance policy of receipt of
premium, policy may be canceled for nonpayment of any or all of premium
which is actually unpaid if cancellation right is reserved to insurer in policy.
Ch. 537 (AB 446) BELOTTI Amends and adds various sees, and heading,
     Ag.C, re milk and milk products.
  Makes fluid skim milk components an additional basis for payments for milk.
  Establishes extra grade dry buttermilk and establishes standards therefor.
  Makes the temporary quality standards on manufactured milk products and
the definitions, standards and permits on new milk products established by the
Director of Agriculture effective until after the second regular session of the
Legislature commencing after the establishment of such standards rather than until
next regular session.
   Deletes limitation on temporary standards that such may only be established
when Legislature is not in session.
  Provides that specified administrative regulations relating to standards for
designated products shall remain in effect until the 61st day after the adjournment
of the 1973 Regular Session of the Legislature. Authorizes Director of Agricluture
to amend regulations.
Ch. 538 (AB 471) BAGLEY Adds Ch. 2 (commencing with Sec. 61770), P t .
     6, Div.*3, Title 6, Gov.C, re community services districts.
  Authorizes the establishment of zones within a community services district for
the purpose of incurring bonded indebtedness to pay for improvements and services,
to fix and collect special rates or charges and taxes, or for the levying of special
taxes for improvements and services. Prescribes methods and procedures for the
establishment of such zones.
* Correction.
78                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 539 ( A B 595) STACEY Amends Sec. 16105, Veh,C, re motor vehicles.
   Deletes provision for termination of suspension of registation card and license
plates and the storage of motor vehicle where owner or driver of motor vehicle
gives prescribed proof of ability to respond in damages by having a specified motor
vehicle liability policy.
Oh. 540 ( A B 6 7 1 ) B U R K E Amends Sec. 13260, E d . C , re tenure.
   Specifies that the services of a permanent employee of a school district may be
terminated on J u n e 30th, if he has failed, upon request, to notify the governing
board of a district by July 1st of his intention to remain or not to remain in
the services of the school district. Eliminates provisions for suspension of all
credentials and certificates held by the employee for not more than one year by the
issuing authorities.
Oh. 541 ( A B 699) F O R A N Amends Sec. 22507, adds Sec. 22507.5, Veh.C,
     re local parking regulations.
   Prohibits application of local parking restrictions until signs or markings giving
notiee thereof have been placed, with the exception of alleys.
  Authorizes local authorities, however, to prohibit or restrict, by ordinance or
resolution, the parking or standing of vehicles on certain streets or highways, or
portions thereof, between hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. without placing such signs
or markings.
Ch. 542 (AB 818) B E V E R L Y Amends Sees. 266h, 266i, P e n . C , re pimping,
     pandering, prostitution.
   Provides t h a t crime of pimping is committed when any person, rather than male
person only, derives support from earnings of another person, or solicits for
another person, and knows that such person is a prostitute, rather than knows that
such female person is a prostitute.
   Provides that crime of pandering is committed when person procures another
person for purpose of prostitution, rather than female person for house of prostitu-
tion, or induces another person to become prostitute, rather than female person
to become inmate of house of prostitution, or receives or gives money or thing of
value for procuring another person for purpose of prostitution, rather than
female person for house of prostitution.
Ch. 543 ( A B 903) SCHABARUM Amends Sec. 35401, Veh.C, re vehicle com-
    binations : maximum lengths.
   Adds to the combinations of vehicles whose total length may exceed 60 feet
but may not exceed 65 feet, combinations of motor trucks and truck tractors
while being operated in a "driveway-towaway operation" and specified vehicles.
  Incorporates additional changes proposed by S B 757 to Section 35401, Veh.C, to
be operative only upon enactment of SB 757.
Ch. 544 ( A B 936) P A T T E E Amends Sees. 37853, 37883, 37943, A g . C , re
     cheese.
  Specifies that the provisions limiting the size of consumer packages of pasteurized
process cheese food, pasteurized cheese spreads, and coldpack cheese food, shall not
preclude the sale of these cheeses in larger package for industrial and institutional
use.
Ch. 545 ( A B 987) C U L L E N Amends Sec. 72, P e n . C , re fraudulent claims.
   Specifies that "officer" includes prescribed carrier authorized to act as an
agent for purposes of section making it a public offense to present for allowance
or payment, with intent to defraud, any false or fraudulent claim, bill, account,
voucher, or writing to board or officer of state or to board or officer of designated
local public entity, authorized to allow or pay same if genuine. Makes such
offense punishable as either misdemeanor or felony, rather than only as felony.
Ch. 546 ( A B 1235) Z ' B E R G Amends and renumbers Sec. 690.12, as added
    by Ch. 198, Stats. 1968, C.O.P., re debtor's exemptions: vacation credits.
  Provides that all vacation credits accumulated by any public employee, rather
than a state employee only, are exempt from attachment or execution.
                   1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                             79

Ch. 547 (AB 1243) MULFORD Amends Sec. 22702, Veh.C, re regional parks:
     abandoned vehicles.
  Authorizes regional park district police to remove abandoned vehicles from re-
gional park district property.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 22702, Veh.C, proposed by AB 1667, to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 1667.
Ch. 548 (AB 1272) TOWNSEND Amends Sec. 31873, adds Sec. 31874.1,
      Gov.C, re county employees retirement law.
   Permits county board of supervisors to elect to pay the costs of the increase iD
the member's contributions for his service retirement annuity resulting from a cost-
of-living adjustment, and permits the board to elect to pay cost-of-living increases
over 3 percent in both retirement and death allowances.
   Operative in a county when adopted by majority vote of the board of supervisors
of the county.
Ch. 549 (AB 1303) PATTEE Amends Sec. 25509, B. & P.O., re alcoholic
      beverages: credit restrictions.
   Allows beer manufacturer, as well as other specified persons, to make additional
specified charges to, and impose specified credit restrictions on, retailers delinquent
in payment for beverages sold and delivered to them.
Ch. 550 (AB 1306) HAYES Adds Sec. 4036.2, B. & P.C., re prescriptions.
  Permits prescriber to authorize his employee to orally transmit a prescription if
he gives the furnisher written evidence of the authorization. Limits this authority
to prescriptions other than narcotics as defined in Division 10 of Health and
Safety Code.
Ch. 551 (AB 1739) BRITSCHGI             Amends Sec. 7376.6, B. & P.C., re cos-
    metology.
  Deletes obsolete section reference.
Ch. 552 (AB 1761) HAYES Amends Sees. 1702 and 1853, Prob.C, re con-
    servatorship.
  Authorizes exercise of prescribed additional powers granted conservator pur^
suant to court order without regard to whether other Probate Code requirements
are complied with unless other requirements are set forth specifically in such court
order.
Ch. 553 (AB 1920) SIEROTY Amends See. 3234, P.R.C., re oil and gas con-
     servation.
   Provides that specified reports of oil and gas operators filed with the Division of*
Oil and Gas shall be open to inspection by the State Board of Equalization or
its representatives, as specified, and by the assessor of the county in which the
well is located.
Ch. 554 (AB 2101) HAYES Adds Sec. 1801.4, Civ.C, re retail installment
    sales.
  Provides that the Unruh Retail Installment Sales Act shall not apply to any
contract or series of contracts providing for the construction, sale, or construction
and sale of an entire residence or all or part of a structure designed for commercial
or industrial occupancy, with or without a parcel of real property or an interest
therein, or for the sale of a lot or parcel of real property, including any site
preparation incidental to such sale.
Ch. 555 (AB 2175) RAY E. JOHNSON New act, re small craft launching
     facilities.
  Provides that an amount equivalent to unexpended balance as of June 30, 1969,
of Item 288 of Budget Act of 1967, as extended by Budget Act of 1968, is
appropriated from the Harbors and Watercraft Revolving Fund and shall ba
available for the purposes provided in such item, and in addition shall be avail-
able in the amount of $160,000 for a grant to Butte County for construction of
specified facilities at Lime Saddle Area of Oroville Reservoir State Recreation
80                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Area. Provides that no funds may be granted to Butte County until an agree-
ment with the Department of P a r k s and Recreation has been made, and specifies
such funds to be available until June 30, 1970.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 556 ( A B 2269) R U S S E L L Amends Sec. 11005.6, R. & T.C., re vehicle
     license fee distributions.
   Revises county authorization to apply for estimate of increase in its population
for purposes of vehicle license fee distributions.
Ch. 557 ( A B 2278) S T U L L Amends Sec. 14800, Elec.C, re absent voter
     ballots.
   Provides for absent voting by persons confined by illness or disability in place
of residence as well as in hospital, sanatorfum or nursing home.
Ch. 558 ( S B 295) B E I L E N S O N Amends, adds various sees., E d . C , re public
     schools.
  Authorizes governing board of school district maintaining an opportunity school
to confer diploma upon any pupil who has satisfactorily completed prescribed
course of study of school district in an opportunity school maintained by the
district.
   Includes, in general, opportunity programs' within provisions governing opportu-
nity schools and classes. Authorizes pupil to be enrolled in opportunity program for
not less than a class period of school, nor more than 179 minutes per day.
Provides t h a t attendance in opportunity program is to be credited as regular class
attendance.
  Requires pupil enrolled in opportunity program and regular school, to attend
school for period of time not less than minimum schoolday required for grade
level in which he is enrolled.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 559 ( S B 433) B R A D L E Y Amends Sees. 1352, 11751, and 11751.55, adds
     Sec. 11751.25, I n s . C , re insurance.
  Increases various application and annual fees for certificates of authority for
reciprocal insurers and licenses for rating organizations, and revises due and
delinquent dates for such fees.
   Provides that if specified organizations request official action by Insurance
Commissioner under workmen's compensation or the State Compensation Insurance
Fund provisions which he can lawfully consummate only after noticed public
hearing, commissioner shall require such request to be in writing. Specifies t h a t
fee required for filing such request shall be earned if request is denied or granted
in altered form.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 560 ( A B 370) B A D H A M Adds Sec. 9912.5, B . & P.C., re employment
     agencies.
   Declares that it is against the public policy of this state for an employer or a
group of employers to charge an applicant a fee for employment with such em-
ployer or with any employer who is a member of the group of employers.
Ch. 561 ( A B 625) S C H A B A R U M Amends Sec. 8101.5, R. & T.C., re ve-
     hicle license fuel tax.
  Eliminates refund of tax, other than five cents per gallon, on motor vehicle fuel
used in propelling aircraft engaged in crop dusting in connection with agricul-
tural activities conducted from airports, airstrips, heliports, or pads owned or
operated by a public entity.
Ch. 562 (AB 949) D U F F Y Adds Sec. 14107, W. & I.C., re medical assistance.
   Makes it a crime for any person, with intent to defraud, to present for allowance
or payment any false or fraudulent claim, to submit false information for the
purpose of obtaining greater compensation than that to which he is legally en-
titled, or to knowingly submit false information for the purpose of obtaining
authorization for the furnishing of services or merchandise under Medi-Cal.
   Provides that such enforcement remedy does not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           81

Oh. 563 (AB 991) P O W E R S Amends Sec. 1402, P r o b . C , re guardians.
   Provides person may by will appoint guardian for property of minor living or
likely to be born which minor receives from such person by the will.
Ch. 564 (AB 992) P O W E R S Amends Sees. 1263, 1267, 1301, Civ.C, re home-
     steads.
   Deletes estimate of actual cash value of premises from required contents of
homestead declarations by heads of families and other persons, and separate home-
stead declarations by married persons.
Ch. 565 (AB 1175) K N O X Adds Sec. 426, R. & T.O., r e assessing open-
     space lands.
   Specifies method assessor or State Board of Equalization must use t o determine
assessed value of property subject to an enforceable restriction authorized by
the Land Conservation Act of 1965, when specified conditions are met.
Ch. 566 (AB 1560) B I D D L E Adds Sec. 29430, repeals Sees. 29430, 29431,
    29432, 29433, Gov.C, re sheriff's special funds.
  Revises specifications for the. sheriff's special appropriation.
Ch. 567 (AB 1706) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 585, adds Sec. 587, C.C.P., re
     default judgments.
   Requires written application by a plaintiff for specified entries of default or
default judgment.
   Requires application by plaintiff or his attorney for entry of default or default
judgment to include affidavit that a copy of such application was mailed, with
the date of mailing, to defendant's attorney of record, or if none, to the defendant
a t his last known address. Requires if no such address of defendant is known to
plaintiff or plaintiffs that affidavit state such fact.
   Declares that nonreceipt of such notice shall not invalidate or constitute grounds
for setting aside such judgment.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 585, C.C.P., proposed by SB 574, to be
operative only upon enactment of SB 574.
 Ch. 568 (AB 1713) W A K E F I E L D Amends various sees., H . & S.C., re ex-
      plosives.
    Permits the State Fire Marshal to enforce the provisons adopted by him relating
 to high explosives.
    Prohibits transporting of blasting caps or similar primary explosive initiation
devices, rather than electric blasting caps or electric detonators, upon any
 vehicle equipped with radio transmitter or other device which may cause detona-
 tion of such primary initiators, rather than a two-way radio and requires that
 a label indicating specified information be affixed to the shipping container of
 such devices.
    Revises provisions relating to permits to receive and transport explosives.
- Requires that in event any person desires to receive explosives for use in an
 area outside of this state a permit to receive such explosives to be obtained from the
 State Fire Marshal, rather than obtaining such permit, using form prescribed by
 the State Fire Marshal, from the chief in whose area the explosives are to be re-
 ceived.
    Requires that statement, which must be filed in applying for permit, contain
 prescribed information, rather than authorizing it to contain such information.
    Requires person having blasting caps in possession or control to keep same se-
 curely deposited in locked approved magazine, rather than in locked receptacle,
 except when taken therefrom for actual use, transportation, or sale.
Ch. 569 (AB 1737) B R I T S C H G I Adds Sec. 7392.3, B . & P.C., re cosme-
    tology.
  Provides that, if a school of cosmetology or electrology moves to a new location,
without a change of ownership the licensee shall qualify only such new premises
as would a new licensee.
82                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 570 ( A B 1756) H A Y E S Adds Ch. 3 (commencing with See. 998), Title
     14, P t . 2, C.C.P., re offers to compromise: costs.
  Authorizes any party, not less than 10 days prior to commencement of the trial
or a t any settlement conference presided over by a judge of the court in which the
action is pending, to serve an offer in writing to the other party to have judgment
taken based on terms and conditions offered, and if the party to whom the offer
is made refuses to accept it prior to trial or within 30 days after it is made,
whichever occurs first, and there is a judgment less favorable to him than the
refused offer, bars him from recovering costs and authorizes the court to order
him to pay various costs of the other party, including fees of expert witnesses who
are not regular employees of any party.
   Declares t h a t such procedure shall not apply to eminent domain actions.
Ch. 571 ( A B 1806) D E N T Amends Sec. 31401, Ag.C, re dog regulation
     violation.
  Makes conviction of a violation of an offense relating to regulation and licensing
of dogs punishable by a fine of not more than $50, rather than not less than $25,
for first offense, and by a fine of not more than $100, rather than not less than
$50 and specified county jail imprisonment, for a second or subsequent offense.
Deletes provision making second conviction of such offense punishable by 10 days
of imprisonment in the county jail.
Ch. 572 (AB 1894) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 217, H. & S.C., re                    fireman:
    first aid training.
  Specifically defines "fireman" as used in provisions relating to first aid.
Ch, 573 ( S B 709) G R U N S K Y Adds Sec. 1426, H . & S.C., re hospitals:
     rescue teams.
   Provides that, where good faith is exercised, no liability shall be imposed upon
a hospital or its staff or officers or upon the federal or state government or upon
a county for any act or omission of any rescue team when attempting to resusci-
tate any person who is in immediate danger of loss of life, if the rescue team has
•been established by any hospital licensed by the State Department of Public Health
or is operated by the federal or state government, a eounty, or by the Regents
©f the University of California ; and defines "rescue team."
   Specifies that these provisions shall not relieve a hospital of any duty other-
wise imposed by law upon the hospital for designating and training the rescue
team or for providing and maintaining equipment to be used by the rescue team.
Ch. 574 ( S B 1230) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 3277, F . & G.C., re pheasants.
   Permits season of shooting for pheasant on a licensed pheasant or game bird
club premise in Zone A for a specified period of 100 days instead of 75. Changes
the percentage of the total number of pheasants that may be taken on the premises.
Ch. 575 ( A B 661) BAGLEY Amends Sec. 1301, E d . C , adds Sees. *10202.5
     and 10219.2, Elec.C, re public offices.
   Provides that persons appointed to an office of a district subject to the provisions
of the Uniform District Election Law, including school district office shall not
use "incumbent," description of the office or its title as a ballot designation but
may use "appointed incumbent" if he is a candidate for that office a t the next
election.
 * Correction
 Ch. 576 ( A B 676) B U R K E Amends Sec. 9751, E d . C , re school textbooks.
   Adds donation to a nonprofit charitable organization and donation to children
 and other persons in this state or in a foreign country for the purpose of increasing
 the general literacy of the people to the alternative methods of the Superintendent
 of Public Instruction for disposing of undistributed and surplus obsolete textbooks
 usable for educational purposes remaining in the state textbook warehouse after
 expiration of an adoption period.
                   I 9 6 9 EEGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         83

Oh. 577 (AB 729) S T U L L Amends Sees. 44972, 44974, and 44975, A g . C , r e
     avocado packing.
   Permits a tolerance of not more than 8 % from the specified net weight requirement
after the date of packing.
   Provides average net weight of each container in lots of 11 containers or
more, rather than in lots of 11 containers to 100 containers, shall be determined
by obtaining the average net weight of 10 containers selected a t random.
Ch. 578 ( A B 758) A R K L I N Adds Sec. 681.10, H . & N.C., re vessel regis-
     tration agents.
   Requires that all money received by an agent of the Department of Harbors and
Watercraft from the sale of certificates of number or temporary certificates of
number shall be kept separate and apart from any other funds of the agent and
shall belong to the state at all times.
   Declares that in case of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, receivership,
or bankruptcy, the state shall have a preferred claim against the agent, receiver, or
trustee for all moneys owing the state for the sale of certificates, and shall
not be estopped from asserting such claim by reason of the commingling of funds
or otherwise.
Oh. 579 (AB 1398) B R O W N Amends Sec. 11580.2, I n s . C , re uninsured
     motorists.
  Provides that arbitration award shall not be conclusive on any party in
action or proceeding between (i) insured, insurer, legal representative, or heirs and
(ii) uninsured motorist to recover damages arising out of accidents upon which
award is based.
Ch. 580 (AB 1485) VEYSEY Amends Sec. 2807, Veh.C, re schoolbus in-
    spections.
  Provides for inspection of schoolbuses by authorized employees of, rather than
members of, the California Highway Patrol.
Ch. 581 (AB 1518) P R I O L O Amends Sec. 8800, F i n . C , re savings and loan
     associations.
  Provides commissioner shall visit and examine savings and loan associations a t
least once every two years, rather than every year without previous notice.
Ch. 582 (AB 1805) D E N T New act, re property tax reassessment.
  Changes date prior to which damage to property must have occurred for property
owner to qualify under calamity reassessment procedure, from July 1, 1968 to
August 1, 1968.
Ch. 583 (SB 285) W H E T M O R E Adds Title 1 (commencing with Section
     1725), P t . 4, Div. 3, Civ.C, re construction of swimming pools.
  Defines "swimming pool contractor."
  Requires contracts for swimming pool construction to be in w r i t i n g ; to set
date certain for completion. Requires contracts to contain plans and specifications
approved by purchaser, and to particularly describe work to be done. Requires
prior written authorization for additional work. Exempts contracts for pools built
for use and enjoyment of other than single-family unit upon or contiguous to
premises occupied by that unit or built as part of original building plan by same
contractor who builds a single-family dwelling unit on the premises. Requires con-
tractor's name, license number, and classification to be on contract, and t h a t
copy of signed contract be delivered to party contracting for construction of pool.
Requires, in action arising out of contract for pool, that reasonable attorney fee
be awarded to prevailing party. Declares provisions are not exclusive of existing
law, and that noncomplying contracts are void and unenforceable. E n a c t s other
related provisions.
 Ch. 584 ( S B 388) CUSANOVICH Adds Sec. 2801.15, U.I.C., re disability
     compensation.
   Provides that a hospital in which an individual eligible for an additional $12
 per day disability insurance benefit under the Jesse Mayo Disability Insurance
 Hospital Benefits Law is hospitalized shall notify such individual, within 10 days
84                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

of the first day of the individual's confinement in the hospital, of his right to
such benefits and supply him with application forms necessary to apply for these
benefits.
   Provides that failure to notify such individual of these benefits or to supply him
with the necessary forms shall constitute good cause for the late filing of a claim.
   Makes act operative with respect to periods of disability commencing on and
after effective date of the act.
Ch. 585 ( S B 456) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 1830, W. & I.O., re Youth
     Authority.
  Authorizes the Director of the Youth Authority, with the approval of the Youth
Authority Board, to participate in local work furlough programs that have been
established by counties.
Oh. 586 ( S B 676) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 9, Riverside County Flood Control
     and Water Conservation District Act (Ch. 1122, Stats. 1945), re Riverside
     County flood control.
   Authorizes board of supervisors in exercising power of eminent domain to adopt
by two-thirds vote a resolution or ordinance as specified, which shall be con-
clusive evidence of the public necessity of the proposed public improvement, that
such property is necessary therefor, and that the improvement is planned or located
in the manner which will be most compatible with the greatest public good and
the least private injury.
Ch. 587 ( S B 793) LAGOMARSINO Repeals Sees. 6060.6, 6060.7, B . & P.O.,
     re admission to practice law.
  Repeals provisions qualifying admission to practice law requirements relative
to certain war veterans.
Ch. 588 ( S B 944) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 4532, P e n . C , re prisoners.
   Makes penalties for escape from specified places of confinement or persons, and
for willful failure to return to place of confinement, applicable to persons author-
ized to secure education or continuing regular educational program under Work
Furlough Rehabilitation Law.
Ch. 589 ( S B 1302) WAY Adds Sec. 26614.5, Gov.C, re searches by counties.
   Provides that county or city and county of residence of person who is lost or in
danger of life and is searched for shall pay to county or city and county conducting
search in any case where the expenses of such search exceed $500, two-thirds of the
reasonable expenses thereof in excess of $500 within 30 days after submission of
claim therefor by county or city and county conducting search and provides
county or city and county conducting such search shall pay the remaining expense.
Ch. 590 ( A B 102) B I L L G R E E N E Amends Sees. 883 and 1760.4, W. & I.C.,
     re juveniles.
   Limits use of wards in juvenile homes, ranches, camps, or forestry camps estab-
lished by county board of supervisors, and boys in forestry camps established by
Department of the Youth Authority, in fire suppression work except under specified
conditions.
Ch. 591 ( A B 981) B E L O T T I Amends Sec. 25541.7, E d . C , re junior college
      finance.
    Provides that the increase in the maximum tax rate of a junior college district
 to any interdistrict attendance agreements and any part and equipment lease
 agreements, shall remain in effect until the end of the seventh, rather than fifth,
iConsecutive fiscal year following the election date at which the first district bond
 issue passed, in junior college districts in which such seventh year expires on July
1, 1971, rather than July 1, 1969.
    Also provides that such increases shall remain in effect until end of fifth,
rather than fourth, consecutive fiscal year in districts in which such fifth, rather
than fourth, year expires on July 1, 1971, rather than on July 1, 1970.
    In effect immediately*
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         85
Ch. 592 ( S B 22) S H E R M A N Adds Sec. 27288.1, Gov.C, re recordation of
     documents.
   Provides that if an instrument to be recorded is a release of any lien upon real
or personal property, the county recorder shall not accept the instrument for record
unless the release sets forth name of obligor or obligors whose obligation is basis
of the lien being released.
Ch. 593 ( S B 27) H A R M E R Amends Sec. 194, P e n . C , re murder and man-
    slaughter.
  Changes condition that death occur within certain time to make killing either
murder or manslaughter to require death to occur within three years and day,
rather than one year and day, after stroke is received or cause of death is ad-
ministered.
Ch. 594 ( S B 515) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 37902, Gov.C, re city public works
     projects.
   Requires that expenditure for city public works project exceeding $3,500,
rather than $2,500, be contracted for and let to the lowest responsible bidder.
Ch. 595 ( S B 644) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 26726, Gov.C, r e sheriff's fees.
  Increases sheriff's keeper fee for one keeper from $18 to $25 per eight-hour
period or fraction thereof. Increases total maximum fee for any keeper in any
24-hour period from $36 to $50 per day.
Ch. 596 ( S B 673) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 842 and adds Sec. 842.1, P r o b . C ,
     re estate property: leases.
  Permits lease of property in an estate for period in excess of 10 years, rather
than prohibiting such leases except with respect to minerals and asparagus, if
there is a showing of need and advantage with respect to a longer lease, and if a t
least 20 days prior to hearing date on petition for such lease, the petitioner causes
notice of such hearing to be mailed to all legatees and "devisees or to all named
heirs of the decedents. Provides that an order for such lease in excess of 10 yeara
may not be granted if any person interested in the estate objects a t the hearing.
Ch. 597 ( S B 760) DYMALLY Amends Sees. 4806, 4807, P e n . C , re reprieves
    and pardons.
  Makes technical nonsubstantive changes to conform to existing law.
Ch. 598 ( S B 1300) D E U K M E J I A N Adds Sees. 35251.5, 35271.5, Gov.C, re
     cities: alteration of boundaries.
   Dispenses with approval of boundary alteration by legislative body of the city
from which territory is to be excluded if the territory is in a single block, zoned
for single family residential use, and the boundary between the two cities r u n s
through each of the residences located upon the territory to be excluded.
   Provides that school district boundaries which are the same as the city bound-
aries shall change to match the altered city boundaries.
Ch. 599 (AB 1225) C R A N D A L L Amends Sec. 204, L a b . C , re wages.
   Provides an exception to the semimonthly payday law for certain employees
who are engaged in executive, administrative, and professional work and are
exempted from certain maximum hour provisions of the F a i r Labor Standards Act
as amended through March 1, 1969, if paid before the 26th of the month during
which the labor was performed, provided that the entire month's wages are paid
a t that time.
Ch. 600 ( A B 2056) K N O X Amends and adds various sees., various codes, re
     public securities.
   Increases maximum allowable interest rates on future issues of various public
securities to 7 percent. Permits districts to sell certain general obligation bonds
at 7 percent rate under specified conditions.
   Permits redevelopment agencies to sell bonds at a discount of up to 5 percent on
specified conditions, including bonds authorized but unissued upon effective date
of this increase.
•Correction.
86                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Permits joint powers agreement revenue bonds to be sold to state or federal gov-
ernment, or agency thereof to pay principal and interest on loans made to joint
powers agency by state or federal government.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 601 (SB 404) SHERMAN Amends Sec. 25651, H. & S.C., re transporta-
     tion of radioactive materials.
   Substitutes for specific names of federal agencies with whose regulations on
transportation of radioactive materials those of State Department of Public Health
must be compatible any federal agency or agencies required or permitted by federal
law to establish such regulations.
Ch. 602 (SB 410) STIERN Amends Sec. 13706, Ed.C, re merit system: per.
     sonnel commissioners.
   Prohibits any person from being appointed, reappointed, or continued as a
member of the personnel commission in a school district having a merit system
if he is a member of a county board of education or the governing board of any
school district, rather than a member of the governing board of the particular
school district. Makes clarifying changes re qualifications for appointment or re-
appointment of persons to commission, with respect to adherence to principle of
merit system.
Ch. 603 (SB 506) PETRIS Amends, amends and renumbers, and adds
     various sees., R. & T.C., re bank and corporation tax.
   Changes 5 percent penalty period for late filing under Bank and Corporation
Tax Law from 30 days to a month. Extends the statute of limitations for filing
refund claims where a taxpayer is required to report a change or correction by
the Internal Revenue Service. Extends the antidisclosure provisions of the Bank
and Corporation Tax Law to all state employees. Makes related clarifying and
technical changes.
   Expands authority of Attorney General to inspect bank and corporation tax
returns and reports, and revises restriction of use of information in such returns
and reports.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 604 (SB 750) HARMER Amends Sec. 1000, Prob.C, re distribution of
    estates.
  Reduces from three to two months the time from the first publication of notice
to creditors after which a petition for preliminary distribution of an estate may,
under specified conditions, be brought.
Ch. 605 (SB 1095) LAGOMARSINO Adds Sec. 3056, B. & P.O., re optom-
     etry.
  Requires State Board of Optometry to admit to the examination for a certificate
of registration as an optometrist any applicant who meets specified requirements.
 Ch. 606 (SB 1284) BURGENER Amends Sees. 9906, 9909, Gov.C, re legisla-
     tive advocates.
   Requires legislative advocates to give full legal name when registering as such,
and requires them to get a certificate of registration from the appropriately estab-
lished legislative committes prior to acting as legislative advocate.
   Allows appropriately established committees to revoke certificate of registration
for failure to file required expense reports after 90 days from date reports are due
if committee is notified of extenuating circumstances preventing filing, or any time
after date reports are due if committee is not notified of extenuating circumstances.
Ch. 607 (SB 1363) MCCARTHY Amends Sees. 456.5, 456.6, Elec.C, re voter
    registration information.
  Requires county clerks, on the 135th day before each presidential and direct
primary, to furnish Secretary of State with specified supporting documents.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           87
Ch. 608 (AB 259) V E Y S E Y Adds Sec. 405.8, C.C.P., re civil actions: pro-
      fessional services.
   Authorizes the defendant, in specified types of: actions for personal injuries
against a physician and surgeon, dentist, registered nurse, dispensing optician,
optometrist, pharmacist, registered physical therapist, podiatrist, licensed psychol-
ogist, osteopath, chiropractor, clinical laboratory bioanalyst, clinical laboratory
technologist, veterinarian, or a licensed hospital as the employer of any such person,
to move the court for an order, upon notice to plaintiff and all defendants having
appeared in the action, and hearing, requiring plaintiff to furnish a written un-
dertaking, with at least two sufficient sureties in a sum not to exceed $500,
or to deposit such sum or equivalent security approved by court with the clerk of
the court, as security for costs of defense which may be awarded against plaintiff.
Requires such motion to be supported by affidavit showing the claim against de-
fendant is frivolous.
   Permits any defendant having appeared in the action and within a prescribed
time to join with the moving party for such order, and specifies that failure to so
join precludes such defendant from moving for such order.
   Requires that the court, at the hearing upon such motion, order the plaintiff to
furnish such security if the defendant shows to the satisfaction of the court certain
specified facts. Specifies that determination that security shall be or shall not be
furnished, shall not be deemed a determination of any one or more issues in the
action or of the merits thereof, and provides t h a t if a determination is made t h a t
a written undertaking or deposit be furnished by the plaintiff, if such undertaking
or deposit is not furnished within such reasonable time as the court may fix, then
the action against the defendant, to whom the security relates, shall be dismissed.
   Excepts a complaint in an action commenced in a small claims court from these
provisions.
   Requires that whenever more than one such defendant is named t h a t the under-
taking or deposit shall be increased to the extent of not to exceed $500 for each
additional defendant in whose favor such undertaking or deposit is ordered not to
exceed the total of $1,000.
   Requires the plaintiff to pay defendant's court's costs, upon the dismissal of
the action or the award of judgment to the defendant, in any action requiring a
written undertaking or deposit.
   Makes any surety liable for such costs in an amount not to exceed $500 or
amount of undertaking, whichever is lesser, for each defendant with respect to
whom such surety has executed a written undertaking or deposit.
   Directs the defendant to pay the cost to plaintiff of obtaining such written
 undertaking or deposit and defending motion for dismissal which is herein au-
 thorized, if plaintiff prevails in the action against any defendant with respect to
whom such security has been filed.
    Provides that defendant filing motion or joining moving party is precluded from
 subsequently filing motion for summary judgment, and that defendant filing motion
 for summary judgment is precluded from subsequently filing a motion or joining
with moving party.
Ch. 609 (AB 406) B I L L G R E E N E Amends Sec. 1420, L a b . C , re fair em-
     ployment practices.
   Makes it an unlawful employment practice, with certain exceptions, for an em-
ployer to refuse to select a person for a training program leading to employment,
or to bar or discharge him from such a training program, because of the race,
religious creed, color, national origin, or ancestry of such person.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 1420, L a b . C , proposed by A 3 182, to be
operative only upon enactment of AB 182.
Ch. 610 (AB 493) P A T T E E Adds Sec. 992, R. & T.C., re taxation of wine.
  Provides that any wine, winery product or brandy produced or manufactured in
California by a licensed winegrower, wine blender or manufacturer which now or
hereafter is held in bond by any such licensee shall be subject to taxation
only on the first day in March immediately following its production or manufac-
ture.
 88                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 611 ( A B 681) Z ' B E R G Amends Sees. 1812.82, 1812.85, 1812.97, and
     1812.995, Civ.C, re health or dance studios.
   Requires that copy of written contract for health or dance studio services be
given customer a t time of signing contract. Permits cancellation of contract by-
customer without penalty or forfeiture within 10 days after his receipt of such
copy rather than within 10 days after date of contract. Requires copy of dance
studio bond to be filed with Secretary of State. Includes within bonding provi-
sions those dance studios which do not enter into written contracts for dance
studio service.
Ch. 612 ( A B 763) Z E N O V I C H Amends, adds, repeals various sees., F i n . C ,
        re savings and loan associations.
    Eliminates requirement that guarantee stock of savings and loan association be
of one class and authorizes savings and loan association to issue more than one
class or series of guarantee stock with full, limited or no voting rights and other
preferences, rights, privileges and restrictions. Makes optional provisions regulat-
ing voting power of holder of guarantee stock without par value.
    Makes prescribed provisions relating to liability of shareholders of stock in
savings and loan associations inapplicable to any stock or stockholders of an asso-
ciation which is an "insured institution" as defined in the National Housing Act,
rather than only to stock or stockholders of certain associations insured under
t h a t act.
Ch. 613 (AB 783) M I L I A S New act, re school building aid.
  Provides that the governing boards of certain school districts can, by resolution,
waive the districts' rights to receive aid previously authorized by the districts'
voters under the State School Building Aid Law of 1952.
  Makes waiver final upon date of filing a certified copy of such a resolution
with the State Allocation Board.
  Effective until July 1, 1970.
Ch. 614 ( A B 817) B E E Repeals Sec. 25630, B . & P.C., re alcoholic beverages.
   Repeals provision providing that every on- or off-sale alcoholic beverage licensee
who sells, gives away, or furnishes alcoholic beverages in election district or pre-
cinct in county where statewide election is in progress, during voting hours, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
Ch. 615 ( A B 853) CONRAD Repeals.Secs. 2262.1, 2262.2, 2262.3, and 2262.4,
     L a b . C , re sanitary conditions in theaters.
  Repeals Labor Code provisions prescribing various building safety requirements
relating to projection and related rooms of movie theaters.
Ch. 616 ( A B 916) B I D D L E Amends Sees. 2147, 2147.5, B . & P.C., re medical
     students.
   Deletes the provision that prevents a student, who is engaged in a study pro-
gram a t an approved legally chartered school from receiving compensation when he
treats the sick or afflicted as part of his course of study. Permits such student
to treat the sick or afflicted whenever and wherever prescribed as part of his course
of study, rather than permit such students to treat the sick as p a r t of his course
of study.
   Deletes the provision that permits regularly matriculated student in an approved
school to treat the sick or afflicted during and as a part of his course of study.
Ch. 617 ( A B 1042) S T U L L Amends Sec. 8572.5, E d . C , re physical education
     instruction.
   Provides that 200 minutes of physical education each 10 schooldays shall be
offered in an elementary school, rather than in an elementary school district,
maintaining any of grades 1 to 8.
Ch. 618 ( A B 1069) L E W I S Amends Sec. 18102, E d . C , re blind pupils in-
     structional materials.
   Provides that specified materials made available for blind pupils for which state
or federal funds were allowed are property of the state and shall be available
for use throughout state as State Board of Education shall provide.
                   1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                               89

Ch. 619 (AB 1152) MILLER Amends Sec. 16554.5, Ed.C, re child care pro-
    grams.
  Authorizes school district governing boards to permit school facilities to be used
for child care programs for children of elementary school age in addition to chil-
dren of preschool age. Makes technical change.
Ch. 620 (AB 1266) LEWIS Adds Art. 2.5 (commencing with Sec. 10140),
     Ch. 1, Pt. 2, Div. 2, Ins.C, re insurance.
   Prohibits insurer licensed to issue life or disability insurance from failing or re-
fusing to accept application for, or to issue, insurance policy, or to issue or cancel
insurance, under conditions less favorable than in other comparable cases, except
for reasons applicable alike to persons of every race, color, religion, national origin,
or ancestry.
   Prohibits consideration solely of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry
as condition or risk for higher insurance charge, for such insurance.
   Prohibits inclusion in application for such insurance or insurance investigation
report for determination of insurability of any identification or related require-
ment respecting race, color, religion, national origin, or ancestry of applicant.
Ch. 621 (AB 1273) TOWNSEND Adds Sec, 31781.3, Gov.C, re county em-
    ployees' retirement law.
  Provides an alternative death benefit or life annuity to that provided by Sees.
31781 and 31781.1, respectively.
Ch. 622 (AB 1274) HAYES Adds Sec. 39112, H. & S.C., amends Sees.
     40001.1, 27156, Veh.C, re vehicle pollution control devices.
   Requires, subject to certain prescribed provisions, that all motor vehicles re-
quired by federal law to be equipped with pollution control devices be equipped
with such pollution control devices; prohibits such vehicles from being op-
erated or left standing upon any highway unless they are equipped with such de-
vices ; revises exception from the provision requiring motor vehicle pollution con-
trol devices, of vehicles altered to use fuels other than gasoline.
   Requires certificates of compliance required for registration of specified vehicles
to indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a motor vehicle pollution control de-
vice or devices, rather than a certified device or devices.
   In ejfeet immediately.
Ch. 623 (AB 1373) FONG Amends Sec. 25416, Ed.C, re governing boards:
     junior college.
  Changes reference from clerk to secretary of the governing board of a junior
college district, in provisions relating to annual organizational meeting.
Ch. 624 (AB 1480) M A C D O N A L D Amends various sees., W. & I.C., re state
    hospitals.
  Authorizes placement by Department of Mental Hygiene of persons committed as
narcotic drug addicts; habit forming drug addicts and mentally retarded persons in
any state hospital, rather than a designated state hospital.
Ch. 625 (AB 1817) UNRUH Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, and re-
     peals various sees., Civ.C, re credit sales and accounts.
   Revises "Unruh Act," relating to credit sales and accounts, to make it conform
as closely as possible to federal regulations under federal Truth in Lending Act
regarding disclosure of information between the seller or creditor and buyer or
customer.
   Makes related and technical changes.
   Declares that act does not change present state law with respect to regulation
of finance charges and rates.
Ch. 626 (AB 2080) KNOX Amends Sees. 25302 and 25608, Corp.C, re cor-
     porate securities.
  Removes limitations under Corporate Securities Law of 1968 on advertising con-
cerning securities which are subject to supervision, regulation or examination by
specified public agencies or entities.
90                  1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

   Deletes valuation rule for determining fee based on aggregate value for qualifica-
tion of certain share dividends or share splits by coordination, notification or
permits; and provides instead that such fee relating to share dividend where share-
holders may elect cash or more shares of common stock shall be based on maximum
amount of cash payable should all shareholders choose cash, and provides $100
fee for recapitalization or reorganization changes in securities applies to stock
split, reverse stock split, and stock dividend, except where shareholder has option
to choose cash or additional common stock.
   Deletes provision authorizing transfer upon payment of fee of agents' certificates
from licensed broker-dealer to another licensed broker-dealer which acquires the
business of the former, and makes such change operative on January 1,1970.
Ch. 627 (AB 2352) LANTERMAN Adds Sec. 1231, Gov.C, re state officers
and agencies.
  Provides that on or after June 30, 1969, no state officer or employee shall be
deemed to have a break in service or to have terminated his employment, for any
purpose, solely because of the failure to enact a budget bill for the 1969-70 fiscal
year prior to the end of the preceding fiscal year.
  Also provides that, any officer or employee who entered state service on July 1, 2,
or 3, 1969, shall be considered a state officer or employee from the time he entered
state service, notwithstanding the failure to enact a budget for the 1969-1970 fiscal'
year prior to that time.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 628 (AB 1213) CHAPPIE Amends Sees. 5020 and 5021, P.R.C., and
      Sees. 5 and 6, Ch. 212, Stats. 1967, re historical sites and events.
   Revises qualifications for members of the Historical Landmarks Advisory Com-
mittee, to be effectuated according to a specified schedule, provides for 4-year
terms of office instead of serving at pleasure of Governor, and authorizes com-
mittee to maintain a comprehensive record of all archaeological sites in California
and to obtain data for such record from appropriate sources. Authorizes Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation to publish related materials.
   Authorizes California Bicentennial Celebration Commission to sell commemora-
tive medallions, booklets, and artifacts and appropriates the proceeds for the pur-
poses of the commission without regard to fiscal year.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 629 (SB 241) MARLER Adds Sec. 61623.4, Gov.C, and adds Sec. 31121,
     Wat.C, re fire protection.
   Authorizes a community services district to exercise any of the powers, functions,'
and duties which are vested in, or imposed upon, a fire protection district pur-
suant to the Fire Protection District Law of 1961 if its petition for formation
included fire protection among the designated purposes for which the district was
formed, or if the district adopts fire protection as an additional purpose.
   Authorizes a county water district which provides fire protection services to
exercise any of the powers, functions, and duties which are vested in, or imposed
upon, a fire protection district pursuant to the Fire Protection District Law of
1961.
   Declares that if such districts include any part of a city, fire district, or other
local agency which provides fire protection service, such districts shall have no
authority to provide for protection service to such territory in the district unless
consent is obtained from the local agency.
Ch. 630 (SB 335) MILLS New act, re ferries.
   Authorizes the Department of Public Works to transfer specified ferries (which
it will acquire upon completion of the San Diego-Coronado Toll Bridge) to state
or local governmental agencies at a nominal price upon condition that the acquiring
agency use such ferry for a public purpose (specifically, historical, cultural, educa-
tional, or transportational purposes). Authorizes the department, where more than
one bid is placed for the same ferry, to select which of the bidding agencies should
receive the ferry, upon basis of which use results in the greatest benefit to people of
state. Prohibits agency from selling fittings, equipment, or parts of acquired ferry.
Authorizes department to reserve the right to make such sales and to receive
proceeds of any such sale.
   In effect immediately.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           91

Ch. 631 ( S B 358) C A R R E L L Amends Sec. 22357, Veh.C., re local speed
    limits.
  Prohibits local authorities from revising a speed limit for a street, which limit
had previously been established by the local authority for the street on the basis of
an engineering and traffic survey, except on the basis of an engineering and traffic
survey.
Ch. 632 ( S B 525) S H O R T Amends Sees. 22356, 36508, Veh.C, re implements
     of husbandry.
   Prohibits sale after prescribed date of new implement of husbandry designed or
intended by manufacturer to be driven or moved at speed of not in excess of 25
miles per hour unless such vehicle is equipped by manufacturer with slow-moving
vehicle emblem as defined. Requires such an emblem to be displayed and maintained
thereafter on such implement while the implement is able to be operated.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 36508, Veh.C, proposed by S B 40, to
be operative only upon enactment of SB 40.
   Specifies bases to be used by Department of Public Works in determination of
whether speed greater than 65 miles per hour would facilitate traffic flow upon any
state highway which is a freeway, for either existing or newly constructed freeway
segments, prior to declaration by Secretary of Business and Transportation Agency-
of higher maximum speed for such highway or portion of highway.
Ch. 633 ( S B 535) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 48054, adds Sec. 48059,
     Ag., re lettuce.
   Permits specified head lettuce used for chopping and shredding not to be packed
in specified standard containers.
  Authorizes the Director of Agriculture to establish by regulation quality stand-
ards for head lettuce to be used for chopping or shredding or which has been
chopped or shredded and packaged and regulations governing the issuing of permits
to insure compliance with the chapter on lettuce and the regulation promulgated"
thereunder, including the transportation and sale of the product to be used for
chopping or shredding.
Ch. 634 ( S B 554) COOMBS Amends Sec. 38933, adds Sec. 38933.5, A g . C , re
    products resembling milk products.
  Specifies that the license fee for the manufacture of products resembling milk
products shall be prorated on a monthly basis for any licensee that commences
operations after the first quarter in any calendar year whether or not such plant
was licensed during the preceding calendar year. Authorizes licensees to obtain a
prorated refund of the 1968 license fee and penalties thereon prior to J a n u a r y 1,
1970.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 635 ( S B 621) M I L L S Adds Sec. 99013.5, P . U . C , re rapid transit district
    indebtedness.
  Specifies that if bonds for a rapid transit district require voter approval of other
than 66f percent, such other percentage shall apply to voter approval of special
benefit district bonds under Mills Act instead of 66$ percent approval otherwise
required under that act.
Ch. 636 (SB 636) A L Q U I S T Amends Sec. 20504, adds Art. 3 (commencing
     with Sec. 20631), Ch. 2, Div. 16, E d . C , re school district budgets.
   Provides for preparation of a preliminary budget by district superintendent for
submission to school district and county superintendent of schools by April 1.
Requires tentative budget to be submitted to county superintendent of schools by
June 10, rather than by July 1, for review only as to compliance with law. Pro-
vides for adoption of final budget, after hearing by J u n e 30. Makes other changes
in budget requirement provisions.
   To become operative only if maximum tax rates for school districts become in-
operative as specified in Section 20751.1 of the Education Code, and, in such case,
at the same time such maximum tax rates become inoperative.
   Advances from late July and early August, to specified periods in J u n e t h e
required publication and hearings on school district publication budget.
   Makes technical related changes.
92                  1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

 Oh. 637 ( S B 637) A L Q U I S T Amends Sec. 20624, B d . C , re school district
     finance.
   Extends expiration date in provision fixing duration of Advisory Commission on
 School District Budgeting and Accounting from June 30, 1970, to June 30, 1972.
Ch. 638 ( S B 646) WAY Amends and adds various sees., Gov.C, re county
     officers.
  Provides for the optional creation of county office of director of finance from
the consolidated offices of auditor, controller, treasurer and tax collector in counties
over 150,000 population.
Oh. 639 ( S B 720) B E I L E N S O N Amends various sees., L a b . C , re public em-
    ployees' retirement system.
  Makes technical corrections without substantive change.
  Provides that amendment of Sec. 4707, Lab.C. shall not become operative if A B
1384 is enacted and repeals Sec. 4707.
Ch. 640 ( S B 782) W E D W O R T H Amends Sec. 3131, B . & P.O., re practice of
     optometry.
   Provides, with respect to offenses under the law regulating the practice of optom*
etry, that upon application of 10 or more persons holding optometrist certificates,
the superior court may issue an injunction or other order restraining acts or prac-
tices which are in violation of such law.
   Specifies that only the State Board of Optometry, the Attorney General, or a
district attorney are excepted from requirement that an undertaking be given in
actions to enjoin practices and acts in violation of the law regulating optometrists.
Ch. 641 ( S B 816) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 4036, 4211, adds Sec. 4031.5,
     B . & P.C., re pharmaceutical devices.
   Includes "devices" as defined in the definition of dangerous drugs when it bears
the legend: "Caution: federal law prohibits dispensing without prescription."
Makes related changes.
   States that these changes are not to be construed as expanding or limiting the
right which a chiropractor, while acting within the scope of his license, may have
to prescribe a device.
Ch. 642 (SB 961) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 70026, 70059, Gov.C, re superior
    court reporters.
  Increases certain reporter fees in Riverside and Los Angeles Counties.
Ch. 643 ( S B 968) B R A D L E Y Amends, repeals various sees., P e n . C , re female
     jailers.
  Eliminates office of matron of the county jail, but requires t h a t counties with a
population of more than 275,000 have a female deputy sheriff in charge of female
prisoners. Requires counties with 275,000 people or less, if they do not have a reg-
ular jail female deputy sheriff, to appoint a suitable woman to have the immediate
care of female prisoners.
Ch. 644 ( S B 991) B R A D L E Y Adds Sec. 10209.3, I n s . C , re group life insur-
     ance : assignment.
   Specifies that, subject to terms of policy, or pursuant to agreement between
insured, group policyholder, and insurer, any person insured under group life insur-
ance policy may make to any person, other than policyholder, an assignment of
all or any part incidents of ownership of such policy conferred on him by the
policy or by law, including specified rights.
Ch. 645 ( S B 1040) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 8305, P e n . C , Sec. 1076, W. &
     I . C ; repeals Sec. 1150, W. & I . C , re Youth Authority peace officers.
   Provides that any superindentent, assistant superintendent, supervisor, or em-
ployee having custody of wards, of each institution of Department of Youth Au-
thority, and any transportation officer of such department, is a peace officer, rather
than that any officer or employee of each institution for delinquents of such depart-
ment is a peace officer.
  Deletes provision in Welfare and Institutions Code that officers and employees
of Youth Authority shall have powers and privileges of peace officers so far as
                    I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                              93

necessary to arrest inmates who have escaped or have been delivered from any
such institution.
Ch. 646 (SB 1078) HARMER Amends Sec. 1551, Evid.C, re video tape rec-
     ords.
   Specifies that reproduction from an electronic recording of video images on mag-
netic surfaces which was authenticated under designated conditions is as admissible'
as original writing itself in court proceeding.
Ch. 647 (SB 1309) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 172, 172a, adds Sec. 164.8,
     Civ.C, adds Sec. 204, Prob.C, re community property in trusts.
   Provides that where community property is transferred by husband and wife,
before or after effective date of section, to specified inter vivos trust, unless trust
otherwise expressly provides, the respective interest of each spouse in such trust
shall be community property, and that trustee of such trust shall not be pro-
hibited from conveying trust property, real or personal, in accordance with trust
provisions, without the consent of the husband or wife, unless the trust expressly
requires the consent of one or both spouses. Provides that, notwithstanding existing
provisions relating to succession to community property, community property held*
in such trust shall be governed by provisions, if any in the trust, for disposition
in event of death.
   Makes such provisions an exception to rules with respect to husband's manage-
ment and control of community real and personal property. Specifies provisions
relating to wife's management and control of certain community personal property
are an exception to rules with respect to husband's management and control of
community personal property.
Ch. 648 (AB332) M A C G I L L I V R A T New act, re beach obstructions.
   Appropriates $50,000 amount to the Division of State Lands to continue work
of removing beach and underwater obstructions from state-owned tidelands and
submerged lands near Summerland, Santa Barbara County.
Ch. 649 (AB 394) MORETTI Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, repeals
     various sees., Ins.C, re property insurance: assigned risk.
   Applies "Basic Property Insurance Inspection and Placement Plan" (assigned
risk program for property difficult to insure) to property in geographic or urban
areas designated by Insurance Commissioner, rather than to residential property
only, to tangible personal property generally, rather than at a fixed location, and
to persons who cannot obtain basic property insurance from licensed surplus line,
brokers as well as admitted insurers. Eliminates provisions excluding insurance on
commercial and manufacturing risks from coverage of term "basic property in-
surance."
   Expands membership of governing committee of the industry (property insurance)
placement facility and creates nonvoting positions.
   Provides for proportionate relief against liabilities to participate in plan adopted
pursuant to the program to insurers who voluntarily write insurance in "brush
hazard areas."
   Eliminates provision which terminates program on July 1, 1970.
   Creates California Riot and Civil Disorders Insurance Association, to be estab-
lished by specified licensed insurers with approval of Insurance Commissioner.
Specifies purpose, membership, and functions of such association. Specifies that
association shall formulate plan of operation and submit such plan to Insurance
Commissioner for approval. Specifies rights and duties of Insurance Commissioner
with regard thereto.
   Appropriates $1,500,000 from General Fund to Insurance Commissioner for
purposes of the act.
   Makes related technical changes.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 650 (AB 466) HAYES Amends Sec. 39052.1, H. & S.C., and Sec. 4,
     Ch. 945, Stats. 1968., re air pollution.
   Changes term of required State Air Resources Board exhaust control device test-
ing program from one year to a period ending November 1, 1970; extends from
February 1, 1970, to December 15, 1970, the final date for the report of such test-
ing results; specifies that such report include a detailed analysis of all facets of the
testing program.
 94                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

    Deletes from the appropriation for the purposes of such testing program, provi-
 sions limiting to the 1968-1969 fiscal year expenditures therefrom.
    In effect immediately.
Ch. 651 (AB 597) C R A N D A L L Adds Sec. 13651.6, B d . C , re school employees:
     sick leave.
  Provides that no classified employee, when he is absent because of any accident
or illness, shall be paid less than the amount of the difference between his normal
salary and the amount paid to his substitute.
  Provides that if district has no salary schedule for such substitute, it shall pay
substitute less than salary paid to employee.
   Provides that such benefit shall be used after all other benefits are exhausted if
absence is because of industrial accident or disability.
  Provides that above provisions are not applicable to school districts having rule
with specified provisions concerning paid sick leave.
Ch. 652 ( A B 910) S T U L L Adds Art. 1.5 (commencing with Sec. 10521), Ch.
     1, Div. 9, Ed.C., re special classes and programs.
   Requires apprisal of parent or guardian of pupil of facts which make par-
ticipation in special class or program necessary or desirable.
   Defines "special class or program."
Ch. 653 ( A B 1115) D B D D E H Amends Sec. 13521, E d . C , re certificated en*
     ployees pay period.
   Specifies that the salary payment which may be made on or before the 10th day
of the month to less than full-time personnel shall be for services during the pre-
ceding calendar month, and makes payment by that day mandatory.
 Ch. 654 ( A B 1146) B U R K E Amends Sec. 24071.1, B . & P.O., re alcoholic bev-
      erages.
    Deletes escrow requirements from provision providing for transfer of an alco-
 holic beverage license for a fee when 50 percent or more of the shares of stock of
the corporation which owns such a license is transferred to new parties, specifically
 limits notice of transfer provisions relative to transfer agreement and considerations
to retail licensees only, makes other changes in such notice of transfer provisions,
and makes related changes.
   Provides that a corporation, which is newly constituted by transfer of stock, shall
not be eligible for any new credit from an alcoholic beverage supplier or manufac-
turer until all delinquent payments owed by the corporation, as formerly existed,
are made nor shall the corporate licensee, by transferring its license escape
the provision of law in respect to unpaid balances, percentage charges for unpaid
balances, or cash on delivery basis.
Ch. 655 ( A B 1383) B A D H A M Amends Sec. 50050, Gov.C, re funds of local
     agencies.
  Includes all districts in sections that provide that moneys left unclaimed in
treasuries of local agencies more than 10 years may become property of such
agencies after specified publication of notice.
Ch. 656 ( A B 1554) BAGLEY Amends various sees., Sonoma County Flood
    Control and Water Conservation District Act (Ch. 994, Stats. 1949), re
    Sonoma county flood control.
  Provides district to be known as "Sonoma County W a t e r Agency."
  Increases maximum permissible interest rate on district bonds from 5 to 6 percent.
Ch. 657 ( A B 1797) K E T C H U M New act, re California State Polytechnic Col-
     lege.
  Appropriates $300,000 from Capital Outlay Fund for Public Higher Education
to the Trustees of the California State Colleges for purchase of property a t 172
California Boulevard, San Luis Obispo, California, for the use of California State
Polytechnic College.
  Provides for the deposit of proceeds from sale of certain land in San Luis
Obispo in Capital Outlay Fund for Public Higher Education.
  In effect  immediately.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          95

Ch. 658 (AB 2061) K N O X Amends Sec. 469, K. & T.C., re property tax.
   Provides that determination of value of property by State Board of Equalization
pursuant to specified provisions may be deemed an audit for the purposes of
provision which requires an audit by county assessor at least once each four years,
of books and records of profession, trade, or business which owns, claims, possesses
or controls local assessable business tangible personal property with full cash
value of $50,000 or more.
Ch. 659 (AB 2067) K N O X Amends Sees. 28476, 28480, H . & S.O., r e imita-
      tion olive oil.
   Defines "imitation olive oil" as mixture of any edible oil artifically colored or
flavored to resemble olive oil. Exempts from prohibition against manufacture, sale,
gift or possession of imitation olive oil, the blending of olive oil with other edible
oils if such blend is labeled in prescribed manner.
Ch. 660 ( S B 999) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 11172 and adds Sees. 11171.5 and
     13933, W. & I.C., adds Sec. 32.7, Ch. 355, Stats. 1969, re public assistance.
   Provides that state funds appropriated for homemaker services shall cover all
nonfederal costs of homemaker services. Provides that costs of attendant care serv-
ices provided through cash payments to recipients during developmental period of
homemaker services or where such homemaker service is impractical are subject;
to regular state-county sharing formula for which category of public assistance re-
cipient applied.
   States conditions under which homemaker services may be purchased from a
proprietary agency.
   Provides that recipients who require care in nonmedical protective living arrange-
ment be granted aid in accordance with regulations and rate schedules established
by Secretary of H u m a n Relations but subject to amounts and controls in budget
act.
   Authorizes the Department of Social Welfare to use $28,059,900 of funds appro-
 priated under Section 32.5 of the Budget Act of 1969, of which $13,957,100 is to
be allocated for the cost of homemaker or attendant care services and $14,102,800
is to be board and care rate allowances which may be augmented by the Director
of Finance if insufficient.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 661 ( S B 303) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 13113, H . & S.O., re fire alarms,
   Exempts, under specified circumstances, homes or institutions for care of am-
bulatory children from requirement of installing and maintaining automatic sprin-
kler system approved by State Fire Marshal applicable to specified homes or insti'
tutions housing or caring for more than six patients or guests. Deletes alternative
of installing heat activated fire alarm system under designated circumstances, speci-
fied exceptions to section, and authority for State Fire Marshal to exempt from
section.
   Exempts homes and institutions in existence and operating on effective date of
this act from provisions applicable to specified homes or institutions housing or
caring for more than six patients or guests if a t t h a t tfme they are exempted
from provisions by regulation of State F i r e Marshal.
Ch. 662 ( S B 311) COOMBS Amends Sec. 464, A g . C , re livestock and poultry
     examination.
  Permits the Director of Agriculture to establish a schedule of fees for performing
diagnostic services on livestock and poultry submitted to him other than in specified
instances.
Ch. 663 ( S B 429) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 1 and 2, Ch. 1672, Stats. 1967, re
      water project cost allocations.
   Revises amounts of certain approved expenditures for recreation land acquisition,
and certain approved joint cost allocations for recreation and fish and wildlife
enhancement associated with state water projects, made by the Department of
W a t e r Resources.
   Provides, in addition, such necessary legislative approval to make effective speci-
fied expenditures for recreation land acquisition for the Castaic D a m and Lake.
96                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 664 ( S B 490) W H E T M O R E Amends Sec. 660, W . & I.O., re minors.
  Authorizes clerk of juvenile court in cases of minors who are or are not detained
to cause notice and copy of petition to be served either personally or by certified
mail with request for return receipt, rather than only personally. Requires any
service by certified mail under section to be with request for return receipt.
Ch. 665 ( S B 550) COLOGNE Adds Ch. 5 (commencing with Section 1930),
     Div. 2.5, S. & H.C., re city streets: summary vacation.
  Authorizes city council to summarily vacate and abandon any portion of street
by resolution, a certified copy of which is to be recorded in office of county re-
corder, except where such action would deprive person of all access to his property
which adjoins street or terminate certain easements.
  Declares that title shall revert to owner of underlying fee on abandonment of
easement.
   Authorizes city to dispose of property acquired, but not needed, for street pur-
poses. Requires that purchase price obtained from disposal of such property be de-
posited in city treasury in fund designated for street purposes.
   Allows city, in abandonment of street, to retain easement to construct, main-
tain, operate, replace, remove, and renew certain specified utilities.
Ch. 666 ( S B 555) COOMBS Adds, repeals various sees., H . & S.C., re radio-
     active material decontamination.
  Provides a lien in favor of people of California upon any object, building, struc-
ture or premises for the reasonable amount of expenses and costs incurred by De-
partment of Public Health in connection with decontamination thereof from radio-
active materials if owner of property or interest therein is person responsible for
contamination. Limits lien to extent of person's interest. Specifies procedure in
connection therewith.
  Authorizes Attorney General at department's request to institute civil action
necessary to carry out provisions relating to radioactive material decontamination.
Ch. 667 ( S B 575) SONG Amends Sec. 8020, B . & P.C., re shorthand reporters.
  Revises criteria for eligibility for admission to certified shorthand reporters'
examination.
Ch. 668 ( S B 643) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 11580.2, I n s . C , re insurance: unin-
     sured motorist coverage.
   Requires insurer whose insured has made claim under uninsured motorists cov-
erage, which claim is pending, to notify such insured, at least 30 days before ex-
piration of applicable statute of limitation, in writing of such statute, and provides
for tolling of any applicable statute of limitation or other time limitation in actions
or proceedings under uninsured motorists coverage for specified time if insurer fails
to give such notice.
Ch. 669 ( S B 699) COOMBS Adds Sec. 1812, Civ.C, re attachments.
   Specifies that in any action on a contract or installment account under Unruh
Act, in addition to the statements required by Code of Civil Procedure, an affi-
davit for a writ of attachment shall state facts showing that the action has been
commenced in a county or judicial district designated as a proper place for the
trial of the action. States that a plaintiff shall be liable for reasonable attorney's
fees proximately caused by any levy made pursuant to a writ of attachment
issued upon an affidavit which does not comply with this section.
Ch. 670 ( S B 1222) P E T R I S Amends Sec. 254, R. & T.C., re property taxa-
     tion.
   Requires that person claiming classification of a vessel as a documented vessel
eligible for assessment a t one percent of full cash value annually make a return
of the property to the assessor, and accompany it by an affidavit giving any infor-
mation required by the State Board of Equalization.
Ch. 671 ( A B 342) K N O X Amends Sees. 219 and 5366, R. & T.C., re prop-
     erty taxation.
  Requires the State Board of Equalization, for purposes of allocating state funds
to local government to make up revenues lost by reason of the partial property tax
exemption granted business inventories, to certify a specified ratio to the auditor
                    1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                            97

of each county in which a chartered city is located, if such city assesses prop-
erty for tax purposes, for use in factoring the county roll in order to compute the
amount of such city's reimbursement.
   Specifies that where a city transfers the assessing and tax collecting functions
to the county but continues to assess and collect unsecured taxes for one addi-
tional year, the county auditor, in computing the city's reimbursement for the
business inventory exemption, shall factor the exempt inventory value on the county
unsecured roll with tax situs in the city by the ratio used by the board in the
prior year in preparing the current board roll for the city.
   Bequires assessors to file specified information with California Department of
Aeronautics not later than July 1 of each year, rather than within 30 days follow-
ing the lien date each year, commencing in 1970, but allows until the first day of
August in 1969 for such filing.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 672 ( S B 234) WAY Amends, adds, repeals various sees. A g . C , re pome-
     granates and persimmons.
   Specifies requirement that oriental persimmons are to be mature but not over-
ripe applies at the time of picking.
   Deletes requirement that Hachiya and other oriental persimmons have attained
a specified color on a specified percentage of their surface to be considered m a t u r e
and instead requires that the outside surface of persimmon be of a shade of red'
that indicates maturity, as prescribed in regulation promulgated by the director.
   Specifies that individual containers in any lot of pomegranates may contain not
more than 1J times the specified tolerances, if the percentage of defects of the-
entire lot is within the specified tolerances.
   Deletes .requirement that to be considered mature the juice of pomegranate is to
be as least as dark as a specified shade of red. Deletes provision that provides t h a t
no lot of pomegranates shall be considered to have failed maturity requirement if
a sample from one container failed to meet the required test.
   Specifies that the juice of the pomegranates shall be a shade of red t h a t indicates
maturity as prescribed in regulations established by the director.
   Specifies that nothing prohibits the transportation of pomegranates that fail
to meet quality standards, within or out of the state for processing, preserving
or manufacturing under a permit issued by the Director of Agriculture and re-
quires the director to adopt such regulations as he may deem necessary for the.
permit to insure the pomegranates are only used for processing, preserving or
manufacturing purposes.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 673 ( S B 580) SONG Amends Sec. 8005, B . & P.O., re certified Shorthand
     Reporters Board.
   Eliminates provision limiting to maximum of $3,700 per year the salary of execu-
tive secretary of Certified Shorthand Reporters Board t h a t may be fixed by board.
Ch. 674 ( S B 684) LAGOMARSINO Amends, adds various sees, and amends
     heading of Art. 6 (commencing with Sec. 5070), Ch. 1, Div. 5, P.R.C., r e
     recreational trails.
   Renames the California Riding and Hiking Trails Law as the California Rec-
reational Trails Act.
   Redefines "trails" to include those for motorized vehicles when so designated and
for bicycles as well as for horse riding and hiking.
   Authorizes Department of P a r k s and Recreation to transfer trail or easement
to local governmental agency if it agrees to maintain and operate the trail.
   Requires, rather than allows, Governor to appoint California Recreational
Trails Committee, formerly the California Riding and Hiking Trails Advisory
Committee.
   Imposes duty on committee to coordinate trail development, and to advise de-
partment on allocation of funds among counties, cities, and special districts, if
state funds are made available to such entities for purposes of act.
   Directs department to publish trail plans and standards and to prepare state
trails map.
   Requires department to notify owner of land through which trail easement or
license passes prior to entering into an operating agreement for trail with a
    4—L-2180
98                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

local agency and requires department to secure landowner's consent prior to transfer
of trail easement or license to the local agency.
   Makes numerous related changes and revisions.
Ch. 675 (SB 1423) DOLWIG Adds Sees. 10666 and 10909, F. & G.C., re
     marine life refuges.
   Establishes James V. Fitzgerald Marine Reserve consisting of designated area.
   Authorizes the taking in such marine reserve, under the authority of a sport
fishing license, of certain designated fish, mollusks, and crustaceans and prohibits
taking any other fish or form of aquatic life except under permit from the Depart-
ment of Fish and Game.
Ch. 676 (SB 46) CARRELL Amends Sec. 6285, R. & T.C., re sales and use
     taxes.
   Extends exemption from sales and use tax on vehicles, vessels, or aircraft to
include sales between brothers or sisters, if both are minors related by blood or
adoption, as well as by spouse and certain lineal relatives.
Oh. 677 (SB 183) SHORT Amends Sec. 1457, H. & S.C., re hospital records.
  Revises provision relating to records required by the State Department of Public
Health to be kept by county hospitals; requires such records to be preserved and
maintained pursuant to the regulations of the State Department of Public Health,
but, in alternative, permits boards of, supervisors, at request of county physicians
or other persons in charge of county hospitals, to authorize destruction of records
prescribed by the State Department of Public Health if specified conditions relat-
ing to their reproduction are met.
Ch. 678 (SB 188) COOMBS Adds Sec. 2631.5, B. & P.C., re physical therapy.
   Provides person meeting specified requirements shall be admitted to the examina-
tion for a license as a physical therapist.
Ch. 679 (SB 268) MILLS Adds Sees. 6502.5, 6860.5, Elec.C, re verification
     deputies.
  Requires verification deputies of candidates seeking qualified political party
nomination or independent nomination to be voters in the candidate's district or
political subdivision and permits verification deputies to serve only in such district
or political subdivision.
Ch. 680 (SB 348) DILLS Amends and renumbers Sec. 2418.1, Veh.C, re re-
    suscitators in ambulances.
  Changes definition of "resuscitator."
Ch. 681 (SB 385) DANIELSON Adds Sec. 7538.5, B. & P.O., re private de-
      tectives.
   Requires any badge or cap insignia worn by a person who is a licensee, officer,
director, partner, manager or employee of a licensee licensed under the Private
Investigator and Adjuster Act to be of design approved by Director of Professional
and Vocational Standards and to bear on its face a distinctive word indicating
name of the licensee and an employee number by which such person may be identi-
fied by the licensee.
Ch. 682 (SB 403) COLLIER Repeals Sec. 21681, P.U.C., re airport assistance
    revolving fund.
 .Deletes provision granting $15,000 annually out of Airport Assistance Revolving
Fund to the Division of Aeronautics to be used to aid various bodies in the ad-
ministration and expenditure of moneys from the fund.
Ch. 683 (SB 539) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 6421, Lab.C, re crane boom-
    stops.
  Provides that on and after July 1, 1970, crawler and wheel cranes with rated
capacity of more than 10 tons sold or operated in the state shall be equipped
with boomstops that meet standards that shall be established by the Division of
Industrial Safety, rather than that boomstops of all cranes of such capacity shall
meet specified standards.
  In effect immediately.
                    1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                              99

Ch. 684 (SB 612) BURNS New act, re school building aid assistance.
   Allows unified school district which does not maintain a junior college to remain
eligible for assistance under State School Building Aid Law of 1952, if certain
specified conditions are met with respect to bond requirements as related to assessed
valuation.
   To be operative until December 31, 1970, only.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 685 (SB 664) BURGENER Adds Sec. 13581.3, Ed.C, re classified em-
    ployees : school districts.
  Makes designated persons serving in positions exempted from classified service
in school districts subject to specified code sections relating to tuberculosis exams,
physical exams, sex or narcotic offenses, and identification cards.
  Requires school district to implement act by rule or regulation.
Ch. 686 (SB 696) SONG Amends Sees. 5081, 5087, repeals Sees. 5085, 5103,
    B. & P.C., re accountants.
  Deletes requirement that applicant for admission to examination for certified
public accountant be citizen of United States or have delcared his intention of be-
coming citizen.
  Makes related changes.
Ch. 687 (SB 757) MARLER Amends Sec. 35401, Veh.C, re vehicle length.
   Adds vehicles to category of combination of vehicles coupled together, including
any attachments thereto, which may exceed total length of 60 feet, but may not
exceed total length of 65 feet.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 35401, Veh.C, proposed by AB 903,
to be operative only upon enactment of AB 903.
Ch. 688 (SB 772) STIERN Amends Sec. 4291, P.R.C., re forest protection.
   Permits the State Forester to adopt regulations that wo)ild vary requirements
for structures with exteriors constructed with nonflammable materials or condi-
tioned on contents and composition of same respecting the removing of flammable
vegetation or other combustible growth around areas surrounding structures.
   Requires the occupant or the owner to file with the State Forester a written
consent to the inspection of the interior and contents of the structure before a
variance shall apply.
Ch. 689 (SB 858) ALQUIST Amends Sees. 45, 2366 and 8304, adds See,
     7709, F. & G.C., re commercial fishing.
  Expands the definition of "fish" as used in Fish and Game Code to include
invertebrates and amphibians.
  Authorizes the Fish and Game Commission to regulate the taking for commercial
purpose of any fish for educational and scientific purposes.
  Suspends prohibition against transportation of abalone meat out of state for
additional two years.
  Prohibits taking of any white abalone for commercial purposes less than 6 inch
shell size.
Ch. 690 (SB 872) MOSCONE Amends Sees. 483, 484, 486, adds Sec. 505,
     C.C.P., re civil arrest.
   Provides that defendant arrested under civil arrest is entitled to services of attor-
ney and, if indigent and unable to afford counsel, court shall appoint attorney to
represent him. Specifies time within which defendant must be brought before
judge, provides for immediate hearing on validity of arrest, and declares that hear-
ing shall take precedence over all other civil actions on court calendar.
  Provides that court order of civil arrest shall contain statement with respect
to such rights. Requires sheriff, constable, or marshal to deliver copy of order
of arrest when making arrest.
  Authorizes discharge of defendant after hearing pursuant to court order.
Ch. 691 (SB 926) SONG Amends Sec. 9580.1, B. & P.O., re cleaning, dyeing,
     and pressing.
  Provides that after issuance of certificate of completion for new clothes-cleaning
establishment by State Fire Marshal, rather than at time of filing application for
100                I969 EEGULAB SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

a premises establishment permit to be issued by State Fire Marshal, the person
receiving such certificate of completion, rather than the applicant, shall pay to
State Board of Dry Cleaners fee fixed by regulation of board. Makes related
changes.
   Eliminates specified minimum amount of fee charged by board for certificate.
Ch. 692 (SB 936) BRADLEY Amends Sees. 12051 and 12055, Ed.C, re school
      safety patrols.
   Authorizes governing board of school district to establish and maintain a school
safety patrol in schools of the district to assist school pupils, rather than pupils of
such sehool, in safely crossing streets and highways adjacent to or near the school.
   Provides that the members of such school safety patrol shall be required to give
traffic signals and directions to assist school pupils, rather than pupils of the public
schools, in safely crossing streets and highways.
Ch. 693 (SB 974) DILLS Amends Sec. 10664, adds Sec. 10910, F. & G.C., re
     Point Fermin Marine Life Refuge.
   Establishes the Point Fermin Marine Life Refuge.
   Authorizes the taking in specified refuges, under the authority of a sport fishing
license, of certain designated fish, mollusks, and crustaceans and prohibits taking
any other fish or form of aquatic life except under permit from the department.
Ch. 694 (SB 1152) SHERMAN Amends Sec. 17531.7, B. & P.C., re television
    tubes and containers.
 Revises schedule of labeling relating to color television picture tubes.
Ch. 695 (SB 1231) MARLER Adds Sec. 317, F. & G.C., re hunting.
   Authorizes Fish and Game Commission to issue permit to organization conduct-
ing special hunt for specified servicemen or veterans notwithstanding provisions on
loaded rifle t>r shotgun in a vehicle or conveyance or its attachments which is
standing on or along or is being driven on or along a public highway or other way
open to the public, and shooting of any game bird or mammal from a powerboat,
sailboat, motor vehicle, or airplane.
Ch. 696 (SB 1237) MARLER Amends Sec. 3517, F. & G.C., re redlegged
     partridges.
  Permits domestically reared redlegged partridges of the variety Indian chukar to
be released and taken on licensed pheasant clubs and licensed game bird clubs
and for dog training and field trials as authorized by the Fish and Game
Commission throughout the state, rather than only in certain described areas of
the state.
Ch. 697 (SB 1303) WAY Amends Sees. 9402, 9700, 36010, 36110, and 36300,
     Veh.C, re vehicles.
   Requires an additional fee of $2 be charged each quarter or period of three con-
secutive calendar months, rather than just each quarter whenever person pays fee
under specified provisions on quarterly basis.
   Requires that specified fees for farm trailers be paid for three consecutive
calendar months irrespective of any calendar quarters.
  Deletes weight provision in definition of "farm trailer."
  Makes farm trailers having a gross weight of more than 6,000 pounds subject
to registration but permits them to pay the additional specified fees for a period of
three consecutive months irrespective of any calendar quarters.
  Requires that driver of farm tractor while being used to draw a farm trailer
carrying farm produce to specified places be in possession of driver's license of
the appropriate class, rather than any driver's license, other than junior permit.
Ch. 698 (SB 1314) COOMBS Amends Sec. 7028.3, B. & P.O., re contractors.
  Authorizes injunctive relief against person licensed as contractor who has en-
gaged in, or is engaging in, any act, practice, or transaction which constitutes a
violation of the Contractors License Law wherein another person may be sub-
stantially injured, as well as against designated acts of person not holding a state
contractor's license.
                  1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         101

Ch. 699 ( S B 1331) P E T R I S Amends Sec. 620, R. & T.C., re property t a x
   ' assessments.
  Revises authorization of property tax assessee to pay taxes under protest when
not notified by assessor as required by law.
Ch. 700 ( S B 1428) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 823, P.U.C., re public utilities.
   Requires approval by Public Utilities Commission be secured by certain public
utilities issuing notes payable a t periods of less than 12 months if the total of
such short-term obligations exceeds 5 percent of the value of the other securities
then outstanding.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 701 ( A B 750) B I D D L E Adds Sec. 10754, E d . C , re pupil records.
  Permits public school employee to respond to a subpoena served solely to cause
him to produce a pupil record by submitting a certified copy of the record to the
authority issuing the subpoena in lieu of personal appearance.
Ch. 702 ( A B 1845) M U R P H Y Amends, repeals various sees., A g . C , re m a r -
     keting of agricultural products.
   Provides that the chapter on the California Marketing Act of 1937 is applicable
to a retailer who is engaged in the production as well as processing or distributing
of any commodity.
   Clarifies application to fish and seafood.
   Deletes provisions requiring in certain newspapers notice of certain hearings on
marketing orders.
Ch. 7P3 ( S B 43) C A R R E L L Adds Sec. 149,, S. & H.C., re mass public trans-
     portation.
   Authorizes Department of Public Works to permit public or private agencies
furnishing mass public transportation, by regulations or cooperative agreements,
exclusive or preferential use of freeway lanes for mass public transportation, subject
to certain standards, restrictions and conditions imposed by the department.
   Provides for electrification or use of other power sources with regard to such
freeway lanes.
   Provides that the Department of Public Works may apply for and use federal aid
funds appropriated for the design, construction, and use of such freeway lanes to
the extent they are available and may use other funds where proper and desirable.
   States legislative intent of act to authorize and encourage experimental use of
freeways. Provides that the section shall be known and cited as the Carrell Act and;
shall terminate on January 1, 1975.
Ch. 704 ( S B 166) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 4904, P e n . C , re wrongful im-
    prisonment : damages.
  Increases from $5,000 to $10,000 the amount which may be recommended t o
Legislature by the Board of Control, to indemnify individual who was erroneously
convicted of and imprisoned for a crime he did not commit.
Ch. 705 ( S B 587) B R A D L E Y Amends, adds, repeals various sees., I n s . C , r e
    insurance : reserves of insurers.
  Requires each insurer transacting business in California to maintain reserves in
amount estimated to meet specified level. Authorizes Insurance Commissioner to
promulgate regulations relative to computation of such reserves, and specifies
grounds upon which such regulations should be based. Specifies limitations and
exemptions relative to reserve requirement.
  Specifies minimum reserve requirements for specified types of insurance policies.
  Repeals inconsistent provisions.
  Makes related changes.
Ch. 706 ( S B 747) LAGOMARSINO Amends and repeals various sees., P.R.C.,
     re soil conservation.
  Deletes provisions specifying powers and duties of Chief of the Division
of Soil Conservation to investigate and report on proposals for any new soil con-
servation district, addition of land to, or consolidation or partition of, any soil
conservation district, or for transferring land from one such district to another,-
and makes related changes.
  Requires specified recording and transmittal o£ copies of order declaring dis-
solution of such districts.
102                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 707 ( S B 801) D A N I E L S O N Amends various sees., Gov.C, re municipal
    courts.
  Revises the number of and salary oi certain attaches of the municipal courts of
Los Angeles County.
Ch. 708 ( S B 813) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 71616, 71911, 71937, and 72031,
     W a t . C , re municipal water districts.
  Authorizes municipal water districts to fix water rates which will result in
revenue which will repay advances, together with interest at a rate not to exceed
the interest value of money to the district, made from the district to an improve-
ment district, and to utilize such revenues for such purposes. Terminates, to the'
extent that advances made for improvements for which improvement district bonds
were authorized are repaid from funds other than the proceeds of the sale of
bonds of an improvement district, the authority of the district board to issue bonds
of the improvement district, including uninhabited improvement districts, in a like
amount or amounts, and requires district treasurer to maintain proper records and
accounts in such connection as specified.
  Revises from 5 % to a rate not to exceed the interest value of money to the district,-
the limit on interest which may be charged to an improvement district where the
district board provides that the general district shall be repaid for any advance
of funds to the improvement district from the taxes levied exclusively upon the
taxable property in the improvement district, and deletes requirement that such
provision be made by the board in the formation of the improvement district.
  Declares intent of Legislature that whenever a water company undertakes im-
provements within its district it may pay for such improvements with revenues
derived from existing rate structures.
Ch. 709 ( S B 939) D I L L S Amends Sec. 7952 and 7953, P.U.C., re public
     utility property: injury.
  Deletes requirement that public utility publish notice of location of underwater
cable or pipe as condition to recovery for damage thereto. Sets forth the measure of
damages for damage done to a facility of a telegraph, telephone, electric or gas
corporation. Provides that the specifying of the measure of damages does not
preclude recovery of any other damages authorized by law.
Ch. 710 ( S B 1317) P E T R I S Amends Sec. 6006.3, R. & T.C., re sales and
     use tax.
  Declares that "lease" for purposes of sales and use tax does not include a use
of tangible personal property for less than one day for a charge of less than $10
when the privilege to use the property is restricted to use on premises or a t business
location of grantor of the privilege.
Ch. 711 ( S B 1330) M A R L E R Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Ag.C, re
      cattle.
   Revises provision re cattle brand inspection including raising the fees for renew-
ing cattle brand, hide and carcass inspection, and inspecting of cattle brands.
   Authorizes the Director of Agriculture to raise or lower certain fees upon a
finding and recommendation of the Livestock Advisory Board that the current
schedule of fees are either insufficient to cover the cost of administering and en-
forcing the provisions of the division on cattle protection by the Bureau of Live-
stock Identification or that the services provided in the division on cattle protection
may be maintained with lower fees.
   Provides moneys collected «8 a result of the increase in fees pursuant to this act
for renewing cattle brands, hide and carcass inspection, and inspecting of cattle
brands shall not be available for expenditure until appropriated by Legislature.
Ch. 712 ( S B 1366) C A R R E L L Amends, adds, repeals various sees., P.U.C.,
     re airports.
   Requires Department of Aeronautics to submit annual report to Governor and
Legislature through Business and Transportation Agency and removes legislative
recommendations from report.
  Gives Board of Aeronautics authority to adopt, rather than just formulate, rules
and regulations.
   Changes airport permit procedures. Permits department to refuse to approve
airport site or issue permit if, after notice and hearing, site doesn't meet all
requirements.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        103

Ch. 713 ( A B 2057) K N O X Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Gov.C, re
   ' San Francisco Bay conservation.
  Makes various changes in the duties and authority and membership of the S a n
Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission.
  Deletes provision terminating existence of commission on the 90th day after
adjournment of the 1969 Regular Session and provides instead for continued exist-
ence of the commission.
  Changes commission's area of jurisdiction and requires permits to be secured to
make any substantial change in use of any water, land or structure within the
area of the commission's jurisdiction, as well as to fill or extract materials from
the bay and requires permit applicants to also secure such permits from any city
or county if required to do so by law or ordinance. Extends from 60 to 90 days
the time in which the commission must take action upon permit applications and
requires appeal of commission's action to be begun within 90 days.
  Provides that the San Francisco Bay Plan shall constitute an interim plan for
the commission and prescribes procedure for modification of the plan by the
commission.
Oh. 714 (SB 273) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 432, L a b . C , re employment applica-
     tions.                                                                     1
  Modifies requirement that an employee or applicant who signs any instrument
relating to the holding or obtaining of employment be given a copy of the instru-
ment, to require such giving only upon request.
Ch. 715 ( S B 423) WAY Amends Sec. 13187.1, E d . C , re teachers' credentials.
  Deletes September 1, 1968, deadline for issuance of credentials under provisions
of licensing under Certificated Personnel Law of 1961 dealing with issue of cre-
dentials pursuant to laws in effect before 1964 to persons who were in preparation
to qualify for the credentials in 1963 or were then teaching in a foreign country.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 716 ( S B 493) D E U K M E J I A N Adds Sec. 11483, E d . C , re junior colleges:
     resident students.
   Provides that if 50 percent or more of enrollment in a police training course
offered at a junior college are residents of a junior college district other than the
district offering the course, all such students enrolled shall be deemed residents o r
district for purposes of computing a.d.a. of district. Specifies that act shall be
deemed operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
Ch. 717 (SB 792) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 305, P.U.C., re Public Utilities
    Commission.
  Sets forth functions of president of the P.U.C.
Ch. 718 ( S B 1025) S T I E R N Amends Sec. 4905, B . & P.O., re veterinary
     license renewal fee.
   Revises the fee schedules for filing application for veterinary license examina-
tion, for renewal of veterinary license, and for registration of veterinary premises,
to provide that Board of Examiners in Veterinary Medicine may fix fee: for filing
such application, at an amount not exceeding $50, rather than providing for a max-
imum amount of $50 and a minimum amount of $30; for renewing such license,
at an amount not exceeding i$65, rather than providing for a maximum amount of
$45 and a minimum amount of $15; for registering a veterinary premises, at an
amount less than $10, rather than providing for a minimum amount of $5 under
the prescribed fee of $10.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 719 (SB 1223) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 6580.1, H . & S.C., re sanitary
     district elections.
  Expressly makes applicable to general district election of a sanitary district
which is consolidated with a primary election, those provisions of the Uniform
District Election Law requiring the supervising authority of the district to appoint
as officers or directors those nominees who, on the 46th day prior to the date
of the general district election, were unopposed for the office.
104                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 720 ( S B 1427) H A R M E R New aet, re automobile accident study commis-
    sion.
  Appropriates $65,000 from the Motor Vehicle Fund to the Automobile Accident
Study Commission in augmentation of Sec. 6, Ch. 1256, Stats. 1967, for the ex-
penses of the commission for the 1969-1970 fiscal year.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 721 ( A B 190) B U R T O N Amends Sees. 6 and 7, Ch. 1378, Stats. 1965, re-
     status of women.
  Provides that Advisory Commission on the Status of Women report its findings
and recommendations to the Legislature not later than the fifth legislative day
of the 1971 Regular Session rather than the fifth legislative day of the 1969
Regular Session.
  Provides that act creating the Advisory Commission on the Status of Women
shall be operative until June 30, 1971, rather than J u n e 30, 1969.
  Appropriates $44,210 from the General Fund to the commission for purpose at
carrying out their duties during the 1969-1970 fiscal year.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 722 ( A B 986) L A N T E R M A N Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, and
      repeals, various provisions, Gov.C, W. & I.C., re mental health.
  Revises Lanterman-Petris-Short Act, Short-Doyle Act, and related provisions for
care and treatment of mentally disordered persons, persons impaired by chronic
alcoholism, and persons subject to judicial commitment, and for the administration
and financing thereof.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 12021.6, P e n . C , proposed by SB 1410 to
be operative only upon the enactment of SB 1410 and additional changes to Sec.
5604, W . & I.C., proposed by S B 427 to be operative only upon enactment of
SB 427.
   In, effect immediately.
Ch. 723 ( A B 1708) T H O M A S Adds Sec. 35404, Veh.C, Sec. 11526.5, B . &
      P.C., re size of vehicles.
   Authorizes counties with a population in excess of 4,000,000 and with natural
islands in excess of a specified area to prohibit the use of certain vehicles on any
highway or lane established in any unincorporated area on such island on condition
iha.t the board of supervisors prior thereto adopted a resolution specifying certain
maximum widths for such highways or lanes.
   Authorizes such counties to approve, under the Subdivision Map Act, such high-
ways as parts of a subdivision, under specified conditions.
 Ch. 724 ( A B 1755) H A Y E S Adds Sec. 2984.4, Civ.C, re venue.
    Specifies the proper municipal or justice court in which an action on a contract
 or installment accounting subject to the Rees-Levering Motor Vehicle Sales and
 Finance Act is to be tried.
    Specifies that in any action subject to the provisions of section, concurrently
 with the filing of the complaint, the plaintiff shall file an affidavit stating facts
 showing that the action has been commenced in a county or judicial district
 described in this section as a proper place for the trial of the action. Provides t h a t
 if a plaintiff fails to file the affidavit required by section, the court shall, upon its
 own motion or upon motion of any party, dismiss any such action without preju-
 dice.
 Ch. 725 (AB 2347) C H A P P I E Amends Sec. 17, Ch. 52, Stats. 1969, re snow
      removal.
   Authorizes Governor to provide by proclamation that an amount not to exceed
 one million dollars of increased revenue from the temporary additional one cent
 per gallon motor vehicle fuel and use fuel taxes received in the Street and High-
 way Disaster Fund and in the State Highway Fund under Ch. 52, Stats. 1969, be
 transferred from one such fund to the other upon specified finding.
    Makes portion of increased revenue in the Street and Highway Disaster Fund,
 after termination of such temporary additional tax increases, available under the
 Emergency Flood Relief Law for Snow removal, as specified.
    In effect immediately.
                  I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         105

Ch. 726 ( S B 13) C O L L I E R Amends Sees. 253.1, 253.2, S. & H.C., re freeway
    and expressway system.
  Deletes the portion of State Highway Route 12 from Melita Road near S a n t a
Rosa to Route 29 from the California freeway and expressway system.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sees. 253.1 and 253.2, S. & H.C., as pro-
posed by SB 174, to be operative only upon enactment of SB 174.
Ch. 727 ( S B 152) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 263.2, S. & H.C., re scenic
    highways.
  Includes portion of Route 1 from Route 101 at Las Cruces to Route 246 near
Lompoc in the state scenic highway system. Requires Advisory Committee on
Master Plan for Scenic Highways to study portion of Route 1 from Route 246
to San Luis Obispo county line for inclusion in the state scenic highway system.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 263.2, S. & H.C., as proposed by
SB 174, to be operative only upon enactment of S B 174.
Ch. 728 ( S B 195) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 1509.7, M. & V.C., re disaster
    preparedness.
  Codification to maintain the codes; makes no substantive change.
Ch. 729 ( S B 287) COOMBS Amends Sees. 10470 and 10471, adds Sec. 10473.1,
     B . & P.C., re funds: brokers and salesmen.
   Makes brokers and salesmen licensed under the Real Estate Law when obtaining
a license, as well as when renewing their license, subject to additional license
fees when such fees are needed to increase the balance in the Real E s t a t e Educa-
tion, Research and Recovery Fund. Requires that such additional fees be paid
when obtaining or renewing a license within four-year period after balance is
ascertained. Decreases the additional fee which is payable by a broker from $10 to
$7 and that which is payable by a salesman from $5 to $4.
   Permits payment out of this fund of damages remaining unpaid after a
judgment against a licensee on grounds of conversion of trust funds, as well as OB
grounds of fraud, misrepresentation or deceit. Provides that not more than $10,000
per transaction shall be paid regardless of the number of persons aggrieved or the
parcels of real estate involved.
   Permits the Real Estate Commissioner to defend any action on behalf of the
fund. Provides that when an applicant's judgment is by default, stipulation, or
consent, or whenever the action against the licensee was defended by a trustee in
bankruptcy, the applicant has the burden of proving his cause of action for
fraud, misrepresentation, deceit, or conversion of trust funds. States t h a t other-
wise the judgment shall be prima facie evidence, but not conclusive evidence, oi
fraud, misrepresentation, deceit, or conversion of trust funds.
Ch. 730 ( S B 291) M A R L E R Amends, repeals various sees., A g . C , re live-
     stock identification.
  Deletes references to Chief of Division of Compliance and substitutes Director of
Agriculture, relating to duties of Livestock Identification Advisory Board.
  Revises provision regulating the inspection and identification of livestock, in-
cluding the deleting of provisions providing for the inspection on release from a
yard or market of cattle, the maximum total inspection fees for cattle regulations
by the director, establishment of identification of inspected hides, inspection of re-
duction hides and requiring carriers or their agent to be responsible for having
proper document in their possession.
   Provides all moneys collected as a result of the increase in fees pursuant to this
act for the inspection and identification of cattle shall not be available for expendi-
ture until appropriated by Legislature.
Ch. 731 ( S B 296) COLOGNE Adds Sec. 12024.1, B . & P.C., re weights a n d
    measures: overcharges.
  Makes every person who, by himself, or through or for another, willfully mis-
represents a charge for service rendered on the basis of weight, time, measure, o r
count guilty of a misdemeanor.
106                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 732 ( S B 322) S T I E R N Amends Sees. 1154 and 5303, R. & T.C., re
     taxation of air taxis.
  Requires air taxis in unscheduled operation to be assessed and taxed the same
as other personal property on the unsecured roll of the county in which the
aircraft is habitually situated rather than under the provisions providing for the
assessment of air taxis.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 733 ( S B 354) S C H M I T Z Adds Sees. 25452.1 and 25452.2, E d . C , re junior
    college go\erning boards.
  Makes specific provision for election, appointment, and tenure of board members
where a junior college district and a unified district have a common governing
board of five members, the organization of which was completed on or before DV
cember 31, 1968, pursuant to specified provisions of law where the board determines
on or before December 31 of any year that a separate junior college district govern-
ing board shall be established. Operative only until December 31, 1972.
  In effect immediately,
Ch. 734 ( S B 465) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sees. 1334.2, 1334.3, P e n . C , re
     witnesses.
   Sets out alternative measure of amount of, and requires additional authorized
fees and expenses relating to, travel expenses to be paid or tendered person re-
quired to serve as witness pursuant to Uniform Act to Secure the Attendance of
Witnesses From Without the State in Criminal Cases.
 Ch. 735 ( S B 517) COOMBS Amends Sec. 7067.5, B . & P.O., re Contractors
      License L a w : applications.
    Redefines "financial solvency" for purposes of application for contractors' license.
 Requires, rather than authorizing registrar to require, applicant to provide speci-
 fied answers to registrar of contractors on form required by registrar. Requires
 applicant to furnish statement of financial condition, rather than certified financial
 statement. Requires that statements of financial condition which the applicant is
 required to furnish be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
 principles and signed by the applicant under penalty of perjury. Requires that such
 statement be accompanied by a report, certificate, or opinion of an independent
 certified public accountant or independent public accountant rather than by a
 certified public accountant or by a public accountant. Revises minimum information
 to be contained in such statement.
    Permits the registrar to request from any licensee under investigation a financial
 statement, but only if such statement would assist the registrar in his investigation,
 prepared by an independent certified public accountant or independent public ac-
  countant, rather than by a certified public accountant or by a public accountant.
 Ch. 736 ( S B 595) S T I E R N Amends various sees., adds Art. 5 (commencing
      with Sec. 12251), Ch. 3, Pt. 7, Div. 2, repeals Art. 5 (commencing with Sec.
      12251), Ch. 3, P t . 7, Div. 2, R. & T.C., re taxes on insurers.
   Revises provisions relating to prepayment of taxes by insurers. Provides for three
 prepayments, rather than four, by only those insurers whose annual tax liability
 is $5,000 or more, rather than of every insurer. Changes date on which annual
 tax return is due for taxes on insurance other than marine insurance to April 1st,
 rather than J u n e 15.
    Tax levy, not to become operative until J a n u a r y 1, 1970.
    In effect immediately.
 Ch. 737 ( S B 628) W H E T M O R E Amends Sees. 9507, 9508, 9509, H. & S.C.,
     re mausoleums and columbariums.
   Redefines the meaning of the terms "Uniform Building Code," "Uniform Plumb-
 ing Code," and "National Electrical Code" as used in the Private and Community
 Mausoleum and Columbarium Law.
  Ch. 738 ( S B 695) COLOGNE New act, re consolidated election; constitutional
      amendment.
    Provides for submission to the voters at the 1970 primary election of Senate
  Constitutional Amendment No. 26. Act calling election.
    In effect immediately.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         107

Ch. 739 ( S B 741) COOMBS Amends Sec. 29123, Gov.C, re county finances.
  Provides t h a t in county projects funded by bond issue preliminary expenditures
may be made as provided by law until the bonds have been authorized, rather
than authorized and sold.
Ch. 740 (SB 763) COLOGNE Amends Sees. 16731, 16736, Gov.C, re state
     indebtedness.
   Raises maximum rate of interest payable on state general obligation bonds given
in anticipation of revenue from the sale of authorized bonds from 5 percent to 7
percent.
   Eliminates maximum rate of interest payable on notes given in anticipation of
revenue from sale of authorized bonds and permits finance committee to authorize
issuance on such terms and conditions as it may fix.
   Provides that intent of Legislature is that the increase in bond rate interest shall
only apply to bonds authorized after the effective date of statute and t h a t the
elimination of the maximum interest rate payable on notes in anticipation of bond
revenue, shall apply to notes issued in anticipation of bonds authorized prior to
September 15, 1961, or subsequent to the effective date of statute unless Senate
Constitutional Amendment No. 26 is approved by the electors, in which event such
changes shall apply to all bonds and notes in anticipation thereof, regardless of
date bonds authorized.
   Additionally provides t h a t authority to issue notes in anticipation of revenue,
as would be provided for under SB 764, shall not be affected by this act.
Ch. 741 ( S B 764) COLOGNE Adds Sec. 16737, Gov.C, re state indebtedness.
  Eliminates maximum rate of interest payable on notes given in anticipation
of revenue from the sale of authorized bonds and permits the finance committee to
authorize issuance on such terms and conditions as it may fix.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 742 ( S B 849) G R U N S K Y Adds Sec. 1463.2, P e n . C , re junior college park-
    ing fines.
  Provides for transfer of all fines and forfeitures of persons arrested or notified
by junior college campus security patrol officers and charged with violating campus-
parking regulations on property of the junior college district within a county, in
equal amounts to the general fund of the junior college district and to the general
fund of that county.   '
Ch. 743 ( S B 850) M A R L E R Amends, adds, various sees., Ag.C, re livestock.
   Defines the operation of feedlots. Provides that cattle shall be inspected upon
movement or rebranding whichever occurs first, when they are sold or ownership
is transferred. Authorizes the operators of feedlots to register with the Director of
Agriculture. Requires cattle owners or shippers to sort out and identify stray
animals to brand inspectors prior to inspection and provides penalty for failure
to do so and civil liability for feed and transportation expenses in recovering
stray animals. Provides moneys collected pursuant to section for failure to sort
out and identify stray animals shipped without inspection or for inspection at
future destination shall not be available for expenditure until appropriated by
Legislature.
Ch. 744 ( S B 880) R O D D A Amends Sees. 601.1, 708, E d . C , re school districts.
  Permits person to vote for both county boards of education if he is resident of
elementary school district which is included in joint union high school district
and both districts are under jurisdiction of different county superintendents of
schools.
  Requires that tax levied by county for support of its board of education and
superintendent of schools, be levied uniformly and only in that area of school
districts under its jurisdiction, even though portion of a district may be in another
county. Imposes duty on auditor of county, if county is not county of jurisdiction
of school district, to transfer such tax levy to county auditor or county of juris-
diction of school district.
  Repeals provision that county treasurer is to segregate that portion of county
tax levied for support of county board of education and superintendent of schools
that is collected from territory of any school district that is not under jurisdiction
108                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

of county superintendent of schools and to transfer that portion to county treasury
of county whose superintendent of schools has jurisdiction over t h a t school district.
   Operative July 1, 1969.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 745 ( S B 882) RODDA Amends Sees. 7455 and 7456, E d . C , re regional
      occupational centers.
   Prescribes rules whereby taxes for school districts or county superintendents for
support of regional occupational centers are to be levied where district territory
is situated in more than one county.
   Prohibits taxation within a district for support of both a county program and
a district program.
   Makes related technical changes.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 746 ( S B 905) G R U N S K Y Amends Sec. 2106.5, S. & H.C., re highway
     funds: city streets.
  Authorizes any incorporated city to enter into an agreement with any other
incorporated city in the county, as well as with the county, regarding funds
received for expenditure on selected, roads and streets within county and city.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 747 ( S B 1312) COOMBS Adds Ch. 2.5 (commencing with Sec. 171), P t .
      1, Div. 1, R. & T.C., re disaster area tax relief.
   Authorizes county boards of supervisors and legislative bodies of chartered
cities which assess and collect their own property taxes to cancel or refund the
second installment of taxes for the 1968-1969 fiscal year on any real property
which is damaged or destroyed after the lien date in 1968 by a major misfortune
or calamity which caused the Governor to declare the area or region in which the
property is located to be in state of disaster, if such property is damaged to the
extent of 50 percent or more of its assessed value and if such property was not
insured against such major misfortune or calamity because the assessee was unable
to obtain such insurance through usual channels. Specifies that the disaster relief
afforded by this enactment is in lieu of other disaster relief for such property
enacted by the Legislature a t its 1969 Regular Session for the assessment or re-
Assessment of damaged or destroyed property in disaster areas.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 748 ( A B 37) L A N T E R M A N New act, re validations.
  Second Validating Act of 1969, which validates organization, boundaries, acts,
proceedings, and bonds of counties, cities, and specified districts, agencies and
entities.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 749 ( A B 38) L A N T E R M A N New act, re validations.
  Third Validating Act of 1969, which validates organization, boundaries, acts,
proceedings, and bonds of counties, cities, and specified districts, agencies, and
entities.
Ch. 750 ( A B 164) SCHABARUM New act, re California State Polytechnic
     College.
  Makes void all commitments made prior to the effective date of this act by the
California State Polytechnic College, the Trustees of the California State Colleges,
or the Department of Education to either or both of the Departments of Finance
or General Services requiring sale by the trustees of a tract of land comprised of
approximately 156.16 acres adjacent to California State Polytechnic College in the
County of Los Angeles.
•Ch. 751 ( A B 201) B A R N E S Amends, repeals, various see's., Gov.C, re Public
      Employees' Retirement System.
   Provides, with specified exception, that agencies contracting with P.E.R.S. do so
 on the basis of entire compensation of local members rather than be limited to
 specified amount of compensation.
   Provides that prior service benefits for local safety and local miscellaneous mem-
 bers shall be based on final compensation.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           109

   Provides for payment of $500 lump sum death benefit to members of all contract-
ing agencies, rather than to only those which have elected to be subject to provi-
sions.
   To be operative on the first of the month following the month in which statutes
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session are effective.
Ch. 752 (AB 245) B A R N E S Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Gov.C, re
     Public Employees' Retirement System.
   Clarifies provisions relating to allowances payable to persons retired under a
public agency contract with P.E.R.S. which has been terminated or under a local
retirement system which was terminated as a result of contract to participate in
P.E.R.S. and requires that such allowances continue at level existing at termina-
tion. Provides for cost-of-living adjustment generally, except where contract was
terminated prior to December 1, 1968.
   Makes present one-time cost-of-living increase provisions unavailable to contract-
ing agencies which do not adopt the provisions by July 1, 1972, rather than requir-
ing such agencies to adopt such increases by February 1, 1969. Makes related
ehanges.
   Makes clarifying changes in provisions relating to contribution rates, retirement
allowances, and cost-of-living adjustments for specified safety members.
   Operative on the first day of the month following the month in which the statutes
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session are effective.
Ch. 753 (AB 287) B A R N E S Amends, repeals, various sees., Gov.C, re Public
       Employees' Retirement System.
   Deletes provisions for retirement allowance and member contributions for local
safety members based on a percentage of final compensation per year of service
varying with the age of the member at the time of entry into service.
   Reduces retirement allowances and contribution rates of local safety members
covered under O.A.S.D.I. Provides that maximum allowances shall be the total
payable to a member for all service to all employers rather than to service of a
single employer only. Prescribes the manner of computing allowance for service
to each employer where the maximum applies.
   Reduces contribution rates of a law enforcement member covered under O.A.S.D.I.
Ch. 754 (AB 396) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 16652, E d . C , re community
     recreation.
   Includes libraries and parks adjacent to school sites within definition of "recrea-
tion center" in statutes authorizing school districts to jointly participate with other
public authorities in projects for purposes of community recreation.
Ch. 755 (AB 495) B A D H A M Amends Sec. 9997, B . & P.C., re employment
     agencies.
   Provides that the Bureau of Employment Agencies, with the approval of the
Director of Professional and Vocational Standards, rather than the director, shall
fix employment agency fees. Eliminates minimum license fees t h a t may be charged*
employment agencies. Provides that the bureau is not required to collect any
amount over $25 for renewals made between specified dates. Requires the bureau
to make certain refunds of renewal fees to specified employment agencies. Ap-
propriates whatever amount is necessary from the Bureau of Employment Agencies
Fund to the bureau in order to make these refunds.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 756 (AB 854) CONRAD Amends Sec. 12761, H . & S.C., re                      fireworks:
    blank cartridges.
  Deletes provision relative to sale of blank cartridges.
Ch. 757 ( A B 1020) H A Y E S Adds Sec. 5541, B . & P.C., re construction permits.
  Requires, with prescribed exceptions, that a county or city require as a condition
precedent to the issuance of a permit for the construction, alteration, improvement,
or repair of a building a signed statement from the person who prepared the
plans and specifications that he is certified or registered under the provisions
relating to architecture or is otherwise licensed in this state to prepare such p l a n s
and specifications.
110                1 9 6 9 EE6ULAB SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

   Requires a person to sign such plans and specifications when he prepares these
plans and specifications for others even though the preparation of such plans and
specifications are among the prescribed exceptions.
   Provides that a signature and registration number on the plans and specifications
of a person who is registered, certified, or licensed to prepare such plans and speci-
fications constitutes compliance with such requirement.
   Provides that the agency that issues such permit does not have responsibility of
determining qualifications of person who signed plans and specifications or state-
ment, to prepare such plans and specifications.
Oh. 758 (AB 1072) H A Y E S Adds Sees. 722, 723, H. & N.C., re registration
     of vessels.
  Authorizes the Department of Harbors and Watercraft to accept an under-
taking or bond in the amount of the fair market value of the vessel in absence of
the regularly required supporting evidence of ownership upon application for regis-
tration or transfer of a vessel, conditioned to protect the department and its employ-
ees, subsequent purchasers, or persons acquiring a security interest in the vessel
or successors in interest of any of these persons from loss or damage from any
defect or undisclosed claim in the ownership of the vessel.
   Creates right of action in any interested person, to recover on bond or under-
taking for any breach of the conditions for which it was deposited and provides
procedure for surrender of bond or undertaking. Limits liability to amount of bond
and provides procedure for discharge of bond.
Ch. 759 ( A B 1077) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 25502, B . & P.O., re alcoholic
     beverages.
  Prohibits, with prescribed exceptions, specified activities by a manufacturer,
winegrower, manufacturer's agent, rectifier, distiller, bottler, importer, or whole-
saler, or any officer, director, or agent of such person, with regard to off-sale
general licenses and premises.
Oh. 760 (AB 1136) B E V E R L Y Adds Sec. 25034.2, R. & T.C., re Bank and
     Corporation Tax Law.
   Imposes a 5-percent penalty, with minimum of $5 and a maximum of $1,000,
for underpayment of corporate taxes, applicable to returns with a due date on or
after the effective date of this act.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 761 (AB 1106) M U R P H Y Amends Sees. 7026, 7045, 7046, adds Sec.
    7027, B. & P.C., re contractors.
  Includes within contractor's licensing requirements installers of mobilehomes, upon
mobilehome lots, or mobilehome accessory buildings and structures.
Ch. 762 (AB 1176) K N O X Adds Ch. 6.5 (commencing with Sec. 51050), P t .
     1, Div. 1, Title 5, Gov.C, re open-space easements.
  Establishes procedures for counties and cities which have a general plan to
acquire easements in property, either in perpetuity or for a term of not less than
20 years, to restrict such property to open-space purposes for the benefit of the
public. Prohibits the construction of any improvements on such restricted lands,
except as the right to construct such improvements is expressly reserved in the
instrument providing for the easement and except for the installation of public
service facilities benefiting the land or the installation of such facilities pursuant
to an authorization by the city or county or the Public Utilities Commission. Pro-
vides that no such reservation of construction rights shall materially impair the
open-space character of the lands. Prescribes the rights and duties of the parties
and the circumstances under which an easement will be terminated or relinquished.
Ch. 763 (AB 1214) C H A P P I E Amends, adds, various sees., B . & P.O., re real
     estate: land projects.
  Requires subdividers of land projects, as defined, to submit specified reports
relating to defaulting purchasers, under specified conditions. Authorizes Real Estate
Commissioner to deny a public report on land projects under specified conditions.
Provides for rescission of contracts by purchasers of land projects under specified
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         111

circumstances and within specified period of time. Adds related provisions and
makes related changes.
   Deletes qualification requirements for public members of Real Estate Commission.
   Expresses legislative findings and purposes.
   To become operative on January 2, 1970.
Ch. 764 (AB 1246) * P R I O L O Amends Sec. 683, H . & N.C., re vessels.
   Provides that the Department of Harbors and Watereraft may order destruction
of abandoned undocumented vessels after completing prescribed investigation.
Ch. 765 (AB 1250) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 2137.1, B . & P.C., re state institu-
     tions ; hiring physicians.
  Provides for a period not exceeding two years, rather than until October 1,
1969, during which persons licensed to practice medicine in other states and meeting
specified other conditions may be appointed to medical staff of state institution
and may, under supervision of persons licensed by the state to practice medicine,
treat persons in the state institution.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 766 ( A B 1251) W A X M A N Amends Sec. 5843.5, S. & H.C., re street
    lighting.
  Permits county board of supervisors to construct street lighting and levy assess-
ment therefor under the Improvement Act of 1911 on the basis of their own motion
as well as on the basis of a petition of taxpayers of a lighting maintenance district.
Ch. 767 ( A B 1439) MOBLEY Amends Sees. 31695.2, 31703, 31812, 31815,
     adds Sec. 31808.6, Gov.C, re County Employees' Retirement Law.
  Permits counties which on or after July 1, 1969, adopt certain provisions of
Gov.C. for computing the retirement allowance of "safety members" (sheriff's
employees, county fire employees) who are covered by Social Security Act to modify
the formula in prescribed manner.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 768 ( A B 1471) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sees. 6080 and 6084, H . & N.C.,
     re harbor district public projects.
  Raises amount for work not requiring competitive bidding from $2,500 to $3,500
in harbor districts. Raises from $200,000 to $500,000 maximum borrowing or
conditional sales contracts harbor district may enter into a t any one time for
district projects.
Ch. 769 ( A B 1551) Z E N O V I C H Amends Sees. 15 and 46, Fresno Metro-
     politan Flood Control Act (Ch. 503, Stats. 1955), re Fresno metropolitan
     flood control.
   Raises maximum permissible interest rate on general obligation bonds of district
issued for the acquisition and construction of flood control works from 6 percent
to 7 percent. Raises maximum permissible interest rates on bonded indebtedness
incurred for projects in district zones from 5 percent to 7 percent, deletes require-
ment that not less than one-fortieth of such indebtedness incurred for projects in
district zones be paid in every year, and makes related changes in procedure for
authorization and issuance of such indebtedness.
   Permits board to issue bonds in the denomination of $5,000 rather than $1,000.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 770 ( A B 1689) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 10602.5, adds Sec. 5302.6, Ch. 4.5
     (commencing with Sec. 6468) P t . 5, Div. 7, S. & H.C., re assessment of
    public property.
  Provides for the issuing of bonds representing unpaid assessments against publicly
owned property under the Improvement Act of 1911 and Municipal Improvement
Act of 1913.
Ch. 771 ( A B 1690) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 8650, repeals Sec. 8650.1, adds
     Sees. 8650.1, 8751.5, S. & H.C., re bond maturity.
   Requires city or county treasurer, if he receives for payment an interest coupon
from a bond issued pursuant to the Improvement Bond Act of 1915 for which
notice of advanced maturity has been given without the bond being surrendered, to
'Correction.
112                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

mail a copy of the notice of advanced maturity to the address given for payment of
the coupon, and to include the interest coupon with such notice if it is for interest
which has ceased to accrue on the bond due to its advanced maturity.
  Provides that failure to receive such additional notice of advanced maturity
will not affect the maturity date of the bond.
  Authorizes legislative body, for any bonds issued pursuant to Improvement Bond
Act of 1915, instead of only where work is done under the Municipal Improvement
Act of 1913 or Street Opening Act of 1903, to provide differing provisions as to
annual maturing of bonds.
   Deletes authorization for 8 percent interest rate on bonds issued in place of
bonds issued prior to August 27, 1937.
Ch. 772 ( A B 1714) W A K E F I E L D Adds Art. 3 (commencing with Sec.
     12570), Oh. 6, Title 2, P t . 4, P e n . C , re rifles, shotguns: contiguous states.
  Permits, subject to other applicable laws of this state and the laws of the
contiguous state, purchase by residents of this state of shotguns or rifles in a
contiguous state in conformance with the federal Gun Control Act of 1968 and
regulations prescribed pursuant to such act.
Ch. 773 (AB 1760) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 89, C.C.P., re jurisdiction of mu-
    nicipal court.
  Provides that each municipal court has jurisdiction of case in equity to vacate
judgment or order of such municipal court obtained through extrinsic fraud,
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
Ch. 774 ( A B 1825) M I L I A S Amends various sees., Elec.C, re municipal elec-
     tions : proposed measures.
  "With respect to municipal elections :
  Requires that notice of intent to circulate an initiative or recall petition be signed
by at least one, but not more than five, proponents of the measure.
  Requires that affidavit of publication of notice of intent to circulate an initiative
petition be made by representative of newspaper in which notice was published,
rather than by a voter of the city.
   Provides that clerk's certificate of the sufficiency of a referendum or recall
petition be given only to persons who filed written request therefor, rather than
to each petition circulator.
Ch. 775 (AB 1855) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 36935, Gov.C, re meetings.
  Provides that resolutions or orders for payment of money may be adopted at
duly noticed special meetings of city councils rather than only at regular meetings.
Ch. 776 (AB 1868) L A N T E R M A N Amends Sec. 9359.1, Gov.C, re retirement
     of state officers.
  Increases maximum retirement allowance for elective constitutional officers under
the Legislators' Retirement System, other than Members of the Legislature and
judges, if such officer is credited with 24 or more years of service.
  In, effect immediately.
Ch. 777 (AB 1989) P A T T E E Amends Sec. 22502, Veh.C, re commercial ve-
     hicle parking.
  Exempts from provision relating to parking of vehicles with the right-hand
wheels thereof within 18 inches of the right-hand curb, vehicles of public utilities
when used for specified purposes.
  Authorizes local authorities to prohibit by ordinance parking by commercial
vehicles in a business district with the right-hand wheels of such vehicles more
than 18 inches from the right-hand curb. Specifies that ordinance shall be effective
only if signs are placed in areas to which it is applicable clearly indicating the pro-
hibition.
Ch. 778 (AB 2036) M U L F O R D Amends Sec. 39301, H . & S.C., re air pollu-
     tion control.
   Authorizes establishment of more than one regional air pollution control district
in a basin.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                       113

Ch. 779 (AB 2223) P B I O L O Amends Sec. 14427, 15793 and adds Sec. 14438.5,
    Elec.C, re ballots.
  Provides that voter may receive only one new ballot after spoiling one, rather
than up to two new ballots.
  Allows, as an alternate method to drawing line through unused ballots, tearing
or cutting with intent to destroy as long as serial number of ballot retained.
Ch. 780 ( A B 2226) P E I O L O Amends Sees. 35130, 71180.3, Gov.C, re con-
     duct of elections.
   Provides, with respect to an election held to annex territory to a city under the
Annexation Act of 1913, that the election is to be conducted in the manner prescribed
for municipal elections, rather than general elections.
   Provides that special elections to fill a vacancy in justice courts shall be con-
ducted in the manner of electing city councilmen, rather than in the manner of
any other special election.
Ch'. 781 (AB 2228) P B I O L O Amends various sees., Elec.C, re voting           ma-
     chines.
  Changes procedures governing use of voting machines.
Ch. 782 (AB 2231) P E I O L O Amends Sees. 4891 and 4894, adds Sec. 4894.1,
     H. & S.C., re sewer maintenance districts.
  Authorizes division of sewer maintenance district into tax assessment zones
in specified circumstances.
   Permits loan of county funds to sewer maintenance district for replacement of'
obsolete equipment or to defray unusual district maintenance costs, and authorizes
restriction of loan for use in temporary tax assessment zone. Extends from 5 to
10 years maximum time for repayment of loan.
   Makes other related changes.
Ch". 783 (AB 2252) M I L I A S Amends Sec. 9601, Elec.C, re new parties.
   Makes new parties subject to Democratic P a r t y procedure rather than Repub-
lican P a r t y procedure.
Ch. 784 (AB 606) VEYSEY Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, and re-
     peals various sees., E d . C , re school finance.
   Effective February 15, 1970, requires that a.d.a. for pupils in kindergarten,
Classes of less than 180 minutes be adjusted by multiplication factor of 0.750.
Provides for adjustment of 0.417 commencing July 1, 1970.
   Effective July 1, 1971, eliminates crediting of a.d.a. for classes of kindergarten
in classes of less than 180 minutes.
   Provides for adjustment of kindergarten a.d.a. based on size of kindergarten,
classes; provides for waiver thereof under specified circumstances.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 11301, E d . C , proposed by S B 172,
to be operative only upon enactment of S B 172.
   Defines single session kindergarten class.
   Requires that a.d.a. of severely mentally retarded minors in less than 180-minute
schoolday be adjusted by multiplication factor of 0.417.
   Enacts Educational Improvement Act of 1969 and expresses legislative intent
with respect to use of funds therefor, providing for annual evaluation, measuring
effectiveness in terms of improvement of pupil's scholastic ability, and providing for
modification or replacement of ineffective programs. Provides for allowances to
 school districts for programs of educational improvement and programs of cost
effectiveness to be established by eligible school districts. Provides for application
by eligible school districts for allowances for such programs and requires submission
of plans. Requires such programs to be administered by Office of Compensatory
Education. Provides for keeping of precise fiscal records, and fiscal review a n d
 analysis by Joint Legislative Budget Committee.
   Provides for creation of advisory committee on program and cost effectiveness,
 composed of persons in fields of economics, learning sciences, and managerial
 sciences, to assist in administration of program.
    Appropriates $310,000 for specified purposes re Educational Improvement Act
 of 1969 and review and study of office of county superintendent of schools.
    Revises supplemental support program for low-wealth elementary and high school
 districts by increasing maximum amount of such aid,
114                 1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

   Provides for apportionment of the amounts appropriated to be transferred to the
State School Fund by Items 321 and 321.5 of the Budget Act of 1969 and revises
allocation thereof.
   Increases State School Fund regular foundation program levels per pupil in
average daily attendance by $18 at the elementary level, $16 a t the high school
level, $15 at the junior college level, and $10 for adults.
   Revises method of computation for special education programs from one based
on a.d.a. to a per class basis; prescribes formula for computing allowances to
provide for a total support guarantee which includes consideration of foundation
program support provided for various categories of handicapped minors and is
keyed to class sizes fixed by State Board of Education; provides for special treat-
ment of small sparsely populated districts; retains per-pupil allowance for special
types of educational programs ; and makes numerous related changes.
   Provides allowances for driver education for physically and educationally handi-
capped minors.
   Provides for reports to Superintendent of Public Instruction re disposition and
use of amounts received for special education purposes, and for recoupment by state
of excess amounts disbursed.
   Revises and particularizes definitions and descriptions of various forms of handi-
caps for purposes of special education programs; defines various types of instruc-
tion for which state subventions shall be provided; creates local admission com-
mittees for purposes of special education programs for educationally handicapped
and mentally retarded minors; requires that admissions committees consult with
parents of minor before he may be enrolled in latter special education programs;
and makes numerous related changes.
   Establishes maximum class sizes for special education programs. Requires state
 approval of specified program initiation and extensions.
   Revises law relating to special education of mentally gifted minors by defining
qualifying programs, eliminating excess expense concept of reimbursement and
advance apportionments for identification of pupils, requiring reports re disposition
and use of funds, providing for recoupment of excess amounts disbursed, and
making numerous related changes.
   Requires, commencing on July 1, 1970, proposed programs for mentally gifted
minors to be approved by Superintendent of Public Instruction.
   Provides for recomputation of allowances for participation and identification of
mentally gifted minors.
   Provides for reversion to General Fund of certain money not needed for State
School Fund at end of fiscal year.
   Prohibits school districts from increasing ratio of administrative to nonadminis-
trative personnel, as defined, above 1968-1969 fiscal year level unless increase is
completely supported by federal funds or position is specialist teacher in reading.
   Permits Superintendent of Public Instruction to increase foundation programs of
school districts in order to apportion amounts appropriated by Legislature for cost
increases due to inflation.
   Revises provisions re allowances for Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act.
   Provides that school district maximum tax rate provisions will be ineffective
after July 1, 1973, rather than July 1, 1971. Requires Legislative Analyst to
develop plan to establish control over school districts' use of property tax, to be
presented to Legislature in 1970.
  Requires Joint Legislative Budget Committee to conduct comprehensive review
#nd study of office of county superintendent of schools.
   Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 785 ( S B 1297) D B U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 1203.2, P e n . C , Sec. 1731.5,
     W. & I.O., re commitment to youth authority.
   Authorizes court to commit rather than refer a person to the authority if
specified conditions are met.
  Requires authority to accept person committed if authority believes he would be
benefited and authority has adequate facilities, rather than providing that upon
referral by court, authority, if it believes such conditions exist, shall so certify to
court and court shall commit person to authority.
  Authorizes court, in lieu of any other sentence, to commit otherwise eligible de-
fendant to authority after probation revoked and terminated in any case, including
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         115

cases in which judgment pronounced and execution thereof suspended. Provides, as
one of specified combination of conditions of eligibility for commitment to authority,
that convicted person was granted probation and probation is revoked and termi-
nated, rather than only that such person is not granted probation.
Oh. 786 ( S B 1324) S C H R A D E Adds Sec. 21103, Gov.C, re Public Employees'
     Retirement System.
  Permits employment by state board or commission in position exempt from civil
service of persons, under 73 years of age, with special knowledge, experience and
qualifications. Provides that persons so appointed shall 'be retired on the first of
the month after their 73rd birthday.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 787 (AB 2295) BAGLEY Amends Sec. 1, Ch. 800, Stats. 1957, re lands in
     Bolinas Bay.
  Transfers title of certain property in Bolinas Bay from Bolinas Harbor District
to the County of Marin. Provides for the use of such land by the county. Makes
aet operative only when county files certificate that county assumes and will dis-
charge designated outstanding indebtedness of Bolinas Harbor District.
Ch. 788 (AB 21) STACEY Amends Sees. 11052 and 11055, E d . C , re work
     experience education.
   Excludes approved work experience programs from provisions fixing minimum
schoolday in high schools at 240 minutes, and includes such programs within pro-
visions fixing minimum schoolday in special day or Saturday vocational training
programs at 180 minutes.
Ch. 789 (AB 118) VASCONCELLOS Adds Sees. 12032 and 12033, P e n . C , re
      firearms: destruction.
   Permits destruction of firearms otherwise subject to sale as unclaimed property
or abandoned property, and requires such destruction with respect to an exhibit
filed in a criminal action or proceeding, but excepts from the application of this
provision, firearms in the possession of the Department of Fish and Game or which
were used in connection with violations under the Fish and Game Code.
   Permits destruction of a firearm used in the commission of, or attempt to com-»
mit, a misdemeanor under the Penal Code, and provides for restoration of any such
weapon to lawful owner, if the weapon had been stolen.
Ch. 790 (AB 120) DTJNLAP Amends Sec. 19506, R. & T.O., r e senior citizens
     tax assistance.
   Specifies that no proration of property tax shall be made where a homestead is
held in joint tenancy by the claimant and his spouse or by him and his or his
spouse's parents, children, or grandchildren, and the taxes for which assistance is
claimed were paid by the claimant or member of his household.
   Operative with respect to property taxes paid for 1969-1970 and thereafter.
Oh. 791 (AB 169) C H A P P I E Amends Sees. 25457.3 and 25457.8, E d . C , re
     school district reorganization.
   Permits Board of Governors of California Community Colleges to extend period
of time for submitting of specified plans and recommendations concerning organiza-
tion of junior college districts.
Oh. 792 (AB 170) C H A P P I E New act, re school building aid.
  Provides that where a school district, which meets specified conditions, has an-
nexed a lapsed school district as a result of action by the board of supervisors
pursuant to a specified section and thereafter makes an application for a state
school building aid apportionment, the assessed valuation of the annexed territory
shall be excluded for purposes of determining the maximum amount of bonds
which the district is permitted to issue and sell unless the annexed territory has
participated in an election of the annexing district to issue and sell bonds.
  Operative until July 1, 1971.
Ch. 793 (AB 171) B A R N E S Amends Sec. 21252.001, Gov.C, re Public Em-
    ployees' Retirement System.
  Requires local public agencies participating in P.E.R.S. to provide l / 6 0 t h for-
mula retirement allowance for local miscellaneous members unless they have elected
by operative date of act to use l / 7 0 t h formula.
116                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 794 ( A B 180) M I L L E R Amends Sec. 19582, Gov.C, re civil service: disci-
    plinary proceedings.
  Requires State Personnel Board to furnish a copy of a proposed decision of
board to each party to a disciplinary proceeding within 10 days.
  Requires board to notify each party if proposed decision is not adopted rather
than to furnish copy of proposed decision.
  Requires board to take oral and written testimony in disciplinary proceedings
rather than one or the other.
Oh. 795 ( A B 241) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 13325, E d . C , re employment of
     school teachers.
  Includes probationary school teachers within provisions under which the employ-
ment of teachers who have reached the age of 65 is on a year-to-year basis at the
discretion of the district governing board.
Ch. 796 (AB 242) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 15352.5, E d . C , re school classrooms.
   Deletes requirement that trailer coaches meeting certain health and safety stand-
ards and used for classrooms be moved to another school site and used for special
educational purposes at least 3 times each fiscal year.
   Specifies that such trailer coaches, which are exempted from provisions relating
to temporary quarters or portable buildings, be those used for special educational
purposes and are not expanded or fitted together with other sections to form one
unit greater than 16 feet in width.
   Raises, for driver training purposes, maximum number of students who may use
trailer coach classrooms from 17 to 20.
Ch. 797 ( A B 292) M U L F O R D Adds Sec. 23465, E d . C , re Hastings College
    of Law.
  Requires Director of General Services to transfer property located at 55 and 75
Hyde Street in San Francisco to the Hastings College of the Law to be used for
such purposes.
  Permits such property to be sold or leased to nonprofit corporation to provide
housing for students, faculty, and employees of college.
  Provides that proceeds of sale or lease be deposited in General F u n d .
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 798 (AB 307) H A Y E S Amends Sees. 13114, 13144.1, 13144.2, H . & S.C.,
      re fire protection.
   Requires State Fire Marshal to adopt necessary regulations for the approval
and listing of fire alarm and automatic sprinkler systems and to consider standards
of National Fire Protection Association in adopting such regulations, rather than
adopting rules and regulations for such systems substantially consistent with a
specified publication. Revises provision relating to listings of construction materials
and equipment required to be published and distributed by the fire marshal and
revises the method by which a person gains placement on such listing. Prescribes
an original application fee, a listing fee, an annual renewal fee, and a revision
fee, rather than only an original and annual renewal listing fee.
Ch. 799 (AB 309) H A Y E S Amends Sees. 18008, 18012, 18211, and 18218,
    H . & S.C., re trailer coaches and mobilehomes.
  Revises definition of "mobilehome."
  Defines "commercial coach."
Oh. 800 (AB 412) P O R T E R Amends, adds, repeals various sees., AB 413,
        W a t . C , W a t . C as proposed to be added by AB 413, Gov.C, and Budget Act
         of 1969, re water quality.
    Inserts existing provisions relating to sewage in the Lake Tahoe Basin in revised
provisions on water quality control proposed by A B 413.
    Specifies effect of lien, upon recordation, for cost of abating certain conditions
of pollution or nuisance resulting from nonoperating industrial or business locatiom
    Repeals provisions of AB 413 [Ch. 800] exempting specified public agencies from
requirement of holding election before agencies may contract for loan from the
S t a t e Water Quality Control Fund.
    Makes various changes in provisions proposed by AB 413 [Ch. 8 0 0 ] .
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          117

  Exempts specified fees accompanying reports filed by waste dischargers from
provisions prohibiting state and public agencies from paying various fees.
  Appropriates for support of State W a t e r Resources Board specified fees accom-
panying reports filed by waste dischargers.
Ch. 801 ( A B 5 1 2 ) D E N T Adds Sec. 407, E d . C , re annuity contracts.
   Authorizes Director of Education, under conditions established by State Board
of Education, to purchase annuity contracts for permanent employees of Depart-
ment of Education and California Maritime Academy, if certain specified condi-
tions are likewise met.
Ch. 802 (AB 535) A R K L I N Amends Sec. 5005, P.U.C., re Transportation
    R a t e Fund.
  Requires deposit of fees collected by the commission for certificates of public
convenience issued to express corporations and freight forwarders into the T r a n s -
portation Rate Fund. Deletes requirement t h a t money in the fund shall be ex-
pended under the City Carriers' Act.
Ch. 803 (AB 572) B R I G G S Adds Sec. 1752.85, "W. & I.O., re youth authority
     sales.
   Permits Director of. Youth Authority to authorize sale to public of handiwork
made by wards of the authority, with cost of manufacture to be paid from incomer
from sales with remainder of funds put in ward's trust account.
Ch. 804 ( A B 574) L A N T E R M A N Amends Sec. 11460, Pen.C., re paramilitary
    organizations.
  Extends definition of "paramilitary organization" to include one which, as an
organization, engages in rioting or violent disruption of, or violent interference
with, school activities.
Ch. 805 (AB 584) F O R A N New act, re bridge and highway districts.
   Directs Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District to develop a transportation
facilities plan and submit it to Legislature by 90th calendar day of 1971 Regular
Session.
   Authorizes district to establish and operate any and all modes of transportation
within district, including water transportation; to join with other local entities
and state agencies in studying and acting to solve district's transportation problem;
and to finance such studies and action from district's net revenues.
   Limits activities of district from enactment of act until 120 days after submis-
sion of plan to Legislature in following m a n n e r : ( a ) may not initiate any action
designed to add second deck to Golden Gate Bridge, (b) may not use more t h a n
50 percent of its net revenue for bus transit services within district, (c) may not
expend and accumulate more than 30 percent of its net revenue for water trans-
portation services, and (d) requires remaining net revenue to be accumulated to
implement provisions of plan.
   Requires board of directors prior to expending any funds for bus transit or
water transportation system operated by district, to determine that board of
supervisors of counties served by such a system have committed an amount which
board of directors have determined that these counties should contribute to opera-
tion of system for intracounty operations.
   Defines "net revenue."
Ch. 80S (AB 589) B A D H A M Amends Sec. 9801, B . & P.C., re electronic
    repair dealers.
  Includes as a service dealer for the purposes of the Electronic Repair Dealer
Registration Law a person who, for compensation, engages in the business of
repairing, servicing, or maintaining tape recorders, as well as television, radio, or
phonograph equipment normally used or sold for use in the home.
Ch. 807 ( A B 592) STACEY Adds Sec. 14115.5, W. & I.C., re medical as-
     sistance.
  Provides that moneys payable or rights existing under the medical assistance
program shall be subject to a claim of the state or the United States b u t not
otherwise, and that a transfer or assignment of a right of a provider of health care
to any payment shall not be enforceable against the state, a fiscal intermediary,
carrier, or prepayment plan.
118                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 808 ( A B 593) STACEY Amends Sec. 36105, Veh.C, re implements of
     husbandry.
  Exempts from registration as a vehicle, trailer or semitrailer owned and used
exclusively by a farmer to haul a portable sanitary facility used exclusively for the
production or harvesting of agricultural products.
Ch. 809 ( A B 598) D E D D E H Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Gov.C,
     re state civil service.
   Makes various changes in provisions concerning reinstatement of state em-
ployees after vacating position in s t a t e employment to accept another position in
state employment, demotion of employees, and the service of probationary periods
upon specified conditions of employment.
   Requires State Personnel Board to establish the length of the probationary period
for each class of state service.
Oh. 810 ( A B 618) CORY Amends Sees. 213.1, 383, Elec.C, re voter registra-
     tion.
  Makes voting registration in county other than residence permanent when the
voter signs an affidavit of registration used in his county of residence. Deletes
provisions limiting validity to ensuing election only and requiring county clerk t a
cancel registration.
Oh. 811 ( A B 632) M A C D O N A L D Adds Sec. 3279.1, H . & S.O., re medical
     care.
   Requires counties electing to receive Medi-Cal payments under the option provi-
sions, to receive reimbursement for tuberculosis patients under the Medi-Cal pro-
gram rather than under the tuberculosis subvention provisions of the Health and
Safety Code.
   To beeome operative July 1,1970.
Ch. 812 ( A B 634) F E N T O N Adds Sec. 9410, Veh.C, re exemption from weight
     fees.
   Exempts one commercial vehicle, registered to a person who qualifies under the
disabled person's exemption relating to parking, from weight fee payable for regis-
tration of commercial vehicles.
Ch. 813 (AB 636) D A V I S Amends Sees. 327 and 454, F . & G.C, re hearing
    on special hunts.
  Requires notice of hearing and proposed order calling for a special season on
game mammals and antlerless deer hunts to be sent at least 10 days prior to the
hearing to each member of the board of supervisors of an affected county a t his
home address.
Ch. 814 (AB 642) M O O R H E A D Adds Sec. 14160, W. & I.O., re medical as,-
     sistance.
  Authorizes the repayment to the depositor of an amount of money erroneously
deposited in the Health Care Deposit Fund prior to or after the effective date of
the section and appropriates amounts sufficient to pay such refunds.
Ch. 815 (AB 665) B R I G G S Adds Ch. 5 (commencing with Sec. 19200), P t . 3,
    Div. 9, repeals Art. 13 (commencing with Sec. 19031), Ch. 4, Pt. 3, Div. 9,
    Ag.C, and Ch. 4 (commencing with Sec. 28000), Div. 2 1 , H. & S.C., re pet
    food and horsemeat.
  Revises and adds provisions regulating and licensing pet food slaughterers,
processors, pet food importers, Tenderers, and dead haulers. Revises provisions
regulating horsemeat.
  Makes related changes.
  Appropriates $55,969 to carry out these provisions.
  In effect  immediately.
Ch. 816 ( A B 673) B U R K E Amends Sec. 29200, Veh.C, re transporting logs
     and poles.
   Requires t h a t Department of the California Highway Patrol adopt regulations
prescribing the type of bunks and bunk stakes which may be used in combination
in transporting logs and poles.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         119

Ch. 817 ( A B 683) B E L O T T I Adds Sec. 8389, F . & G.C., re herring eggs.
  Provides for the taking of herring eggs under permit and Fish and Game Com-
mission regulations. Requires a royalty of at least $50 per ton to be paid. Exempts
the taker from the kelp harvesting requirements.
Ch. 818 (AB 701) * P R I O L O Amends Sec. 680.1, H . & N.C., re vessels.
  Permits registration without a fee of vessels belonging to United States.
Ch. 819 ( A B 707) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 12924, I n s . C , re insurance:
     investigations by commissioner.
   Empowers Insurance Commissioner to issue subpoenas duces tecum in addition
to subpoenas.
   Empowers commissioner to apply to superior court for order requiring attendance
of defaulting witness.
   Conditions immunity from presentation before commissioner resulting from testi-
monial compulsion on valid claim of privilege against self-incrimination.
Ch. 820 ( A B 7 1 5 ) B A D H A M Amends Sec. 17922, adds Sec. 37040, H . & S.C.;
     amends Sec. 7110, B. & P.C., re housing.
   Updates the editions of, and revises, the specified uniform housing, building,
plumbing, and electrical codes with which the rules and regulations adopted by
Commission of Housing and Community Development, pursuant to the State Hous-
ing Law, are required to be reasonably consistent; adds thereto, a specified Uni-
form Mechanical Code, 1967 edition; deletes requirement t h a t such rules and regu-
lations include provisions imposing requirements to or more restrictive than those
contained in the minimum painting standards for home construction loans adopted
by the Federal Housing Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
   Requires Commission of Housing and Community Development to adopt, by
January 1, 1971, minimum painting standards for housing which it determines a r e
reasonably necessary to protect the public and makes the willful or deliberate
disregard and violation of such standards by a licensed" contractor cause for disci-
plinary action.
Ch. 821 ( A B 718) CORY Amends See. 13009, E d . C , re school employees:
     payroll deductions.
  Requires governing board of school district to make the monthly remissions to
insurers for group insurance, beginning with the month designated by the employee
and continuing the same until authorization for payroll deduction is revoked by
employee.
  Authorizes governing board to require employees to submit authorization for de-
duction up to one month in advance of the effective date of coverage.
Ch. 822 (AB 726) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. ©103.5, Gov.C, re process fees.
  Provides that judgments in favor of public agencies shall include process fees
which would have been charged if a public agency had'not been involved.
Ch. 823 (AB 757) A R K L I N Amends Sees. 3632, 4665, and 5162, adds Sees.
     5392 and 5393, P.U.C., re insurance policies.
   Provides that the accident liability protection required of charterparty carriers
must be evidence by a policy of liability insurance issued by either a licensed com-
pany or a nonadmitted insurer whose policies meet the commission's regulations, a
bond of a licensed surety company, or evidence of self-insurance upon the commis-
sion's authorization. Provides that the commission may accept a certified or photo-
static copy of the policy, or a certificate of insurance, or a duplicate or counterpart
of the policy in lieu of the original.
   Authorizes commission to accept for deposit insurance policies issued by non-
admitted insurers covering the operations of highway carriers, household goods
carriers and for-hire vessels if such policies meet the commission's regulations.
Allows household goods carriers which qualify to be self-insurers.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 824 ( A B 759) A R K L I N Amends See. 681.8, H . & N.C., re vessel registra-
    tion.
  Permits Department of Harbors and Watercraft to register vessels a t Long
Beach office rather than only a t its Sacramento office.
  Correction.
120                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 825 ( A B 774) DTJNLAP Amends Sec. 1091, Gov.C, re conflict of interest
   Includes in the definition of "remote interest" the interest of certain public officers
and employees in any contract or agreement entered into pursuant to the provisions-
of the California Land Conservation Act of 1965.
Ch. 826 (AB 784) M U B P H Y Amends Sec. 1863, Civ.C, re innkeepers.
   Generally revises provision relating to posting of rates by innkeepers, and re-
quires that with respect to a hotel, inn, boardinghouse or lodginghouse, a person
who collects or receives sum greater than the statement of rate or range of rates
by the day for lodging posted, shall forfeit greater of $100 or three times the amount
of the sum charged in excess of what he is entitled to under designated circum-
stances, rather than just three times the amount.
Ch. 827 (AB 792) B E E Amends Sees. 35250, 35251, T e h . C , re vehicle load
      heights.
   Eliminates provision limiting until J a n u a r y 1, 1970, effectiveness of provisions
permitting a maximum height of loads upon vehicles of 14 feet, rather t h a n ' 13
feet, 6 inches.
Ch. 828 (AB 820) B E V E R L Y Amends Sees. 679, 930.1 and 1854, U.I.C., re
     unemployment insurance.
  Adds specified employment requirements to definition of "employer" relating t a
Operators of hospitals for purposes of unemployment insurance.
  Excludes death, pension and retirement payments paid by an employer in an-
other state from definition of "remuneration" for the purpose of determining
the bases of contribution.
  Eliminates provision specifying that statement in director's certificate of tax
delinquency filed in a civil action is prima facie evidence of wages paid by em-
ployer,
Ch. 829 (AB 821) B E V E R L Y Amends Sees. 3002 and 3003, U.I.C., re dis-
     ability fund.
  Provides that the State Treasurer, rather than the Department of Finance, will
invest the Disability Fund under the supervision of the Director of Employment.
  Permits investment of the Disability Fund in enumerated eligible securities, rather
than only in United States or California interest-bearing obligations only.
Ch. 830 ( A B 822) CRANDALL Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, and
     repeals various sees., E d . C , re school district territory transfer.
   Revises procedures for transferring territory from one elementary, unified, or
junior college district to another such district. Provides for hearing by State Board
of Education or by county board of supervisors depending upon whether the
transfer is compatible or not with any master plans approved by the State Board
of Education. Requires, in certain cases, hearing by governing board of district
to which the territory is to be transferred and agreement to transfer by such
board.
   Provides for initiation of transfer by governing board action, as well as by
petition. Gives State Board of Education discretion to order transfers or require
elections, as to transfer proposals presented to it, and requires election under
specified circumstances.
   Makes numerous related changes.
  Requires modification of computation of bond factor of high school district di-
vided and a unified district formed within territory of the high school district as
of July 1, 1969, by inclusion in appraisal of real property and improvements of
amount equal to funds of high school district required to be expended for a project
pursuant to State School Building Aid Law of 1952.
Ch. 831 (AB 831) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 1103a, P e n . C , re perjury.
   Repeals requirement that perjury be proved by testimony of two witnesses, or
6f one witness and corroborating circumstances and instead provides that no person
shall be convicted of perjury where proof of falsity rests solely upon contradiction
by testimony of a single person other than defendant. Specifies t h a t proof of
falsity may be established by direct or indirect evidence.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         121

Ch. 832 (AB 841) D U F F Y Amends Sec. 54.1, Civ.C, re physically disabled
     persons.
   Grants blind persons, visually handicapped persons, and other physically dis-
abled persons full and equal access to all housing accommodations offered for rent,
lease or compensation in this state. Defines housing accommodations as any real
property which is used or occupied as the home residence, or sleeping place of one
or more human beings, but excludes therefrom certain accommodations, including
hotels or lodging places, and any single family residence the occupants of which
rent, lease, or furnish for compensation not more than one room therein.
   Provides that this shall not require any person renting, leasing or providing
for compensation real property to modify his property in any way or provide a
higher degree of care for a blind person, visually handicapped person, or other
handicapped person than for a person who is not physically disabled nor require
a person renting, leasing, or providing for compensation real property, if such
person refuses to accept tenants who have dogs, to accept as a tenant a blind
person, visually handicapped person, or other physically disabled person who has
a dog, including a guide dog.
Ch. 833 (AB 849) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 42271, Veh.C, re motor vehicle
     fund.
  Permits regularly employed peace officers of Department of Motor Vehicles, when-
authorized by the director of such department, to expend authorized sums for
purchase or procurement of specified items of evidence or to investigate violations
of laws administered by the department. Provides that sums so expended be
repaid officer upon claims approved by the director out of funds appropriated or
made available for department's support.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 42271, Veh.C, proposed by A B 461, to
be operative upon enactment of AB 461.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 834 (AB 852) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sees. 21356 and 21803, V e h . C , re-
     right-of-way.
   Deletes prohibition against Department of Public Works or local authorities,
with respect to highways under their respective jurisdictons, from erecting yield
right-of-way signs at locations where the entering speed may safely exceed 15 miles
per hour. Deletes restrictions as to place of erection of such signs. Specifies that
such signs shall be erected only in conformance with regulations required to be
adopted by Department of Public Works by J u l y 1, 1970, except existing signs
which must conform by July 1, 1971.
   Deletes provision requiring that driver of vehicle upon approaching yield right-of-
way sign at entrance to highway or intersection shall not enter such highway or
intersection at a speed exceeding 15 miles per hour.
   To be operative July 1, 1970.
Ch. 835 ( A B 8 6 8 ) D U N L A P Adds Sec. 11829, Elec.C, re petitions.
   Requires proponents of initiative, referendum and recall petitions for local and
statewide elections to file with the Secretary of State, not later than 35 days
after measure has qualified for ballot, a statement of expenses and receipts.
   Declares intent of Legislature in enacting this measure to implement and safe-
guard from abuse the constitutional right of initiative, referendum and recall.
Ch. 836 (AB 895) S I E R O T Y Amends Sec. 11824, E d . C , re physical examina-
     tion of pupils.
  Provides that holder of a certificate of registration authorizing service as a school
audiometrist issued by the State Board of Public Health may test the hearing of
pupils of a school district through the use of an audiometer for the purpose of
detecting pupils with impaired hearing.
Ch. 837 (AB 915) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 6806, E d . C , re physically handi-
     capped minors.
   Authorizes a junior college district to contract with another school district in
the same county, or a county superintendent of schools that maintains facilities for
the education of physically handicapped children, if the district does not maintain
its own facilities for such children.
122               I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 838 (AB 932) M I L I A S Adds Sec. 1567, C.C.P., re escheat.
  Provides that Director of Parks and Recreation may examine any tangible per-
sonal property delivered to State Controller under Unclaimed Property Law to
determine whether such property may be useful for purposes of provisions with
respect to dissemination of information relating to activities, powers, duties, or
functions of Department of Parks and Recreation. Authorizes State Controller to
deliver the property to director for such use if director makes such determination.
Requires director to return the property to State Controller upon termination of
any such use.
Ch. 839 (AB 967) B R A T H W A I T B Adds Sec. 44, I n s . C , re insurance com-
     panies : false rumors.
  Provides t h a t any person who willfully and knowingly makes, circulates,
or transmits to another any false written or printed statement for the purpose of
damaging the financial condition or stability of any insurance company doing
business in this state is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by fine not exceeding
$1,000.
Ch. 840 (AB 990) D U N L A P Amends Sec. 21355, Veh.C, re railroad cross*
     ings: stop signs.
   Prohibits erection of stop signs at any railroad grade crossing controlled by
automatic signals, gates, or other train-actuated control devices, except where stop
signs may be necessary to control traffic on intersecting highways adjacent to
such grade crossing. Requires preexisting nonconforming stop signs to be removed
prior to January 1, 1971.
Ch. 841 (AB 995) LEROY F . G R E E N E New act, re Sacramento City Uni-
    fied School District.
  Expresses legislative intent re Sacramento City Unified School District.
  Authorizes secondary school certificated employees of Sacramento City Unified
School District to teach in grades 4 to 8, inclusive, for a period of time determined
by governing board, but not to exceed two school years.
  Operative until July 1, 1971.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 842 (AB 1010) QUIMBY Amends Sees. 73101.5, 73107, 73113, 73118, Gov.
    C , re municipal courts.
  Increases number of attaches in municipal courts in San Bernardino County.
Provides that specified court fee shall be taxed as costs in favor of any party
paying it and to whom costs are awarded.
Ch. 843 (AB 1011) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Amends Sees. 505 and 1670, adds
     Sec. 534.1, F i n . C , re banks.
   Increases from six months to one year the time within which a bank must open
a branch office after the branch has been approved by the Superintendent of Banks.
Increases from six months to one year the periods for which the superintendent may
extend the times for opening a branch. Provides that an application for extension
of time be accompanied by a fee of $100.
   Authorizes foreign branch of bank to transact such business as may be usual in
connection with the transaction of the business of banking in the places where
such foreign branch is located. Provides that a foreign branch shall not engage in
the general merchandise business or in the securities business, except with
respect to securities issued by a foreign state. Defines "foreign state."
   Specifies bank may enforce lien as warehouseman under Uniform Commercial
Code, rather than Warehouse Receipts Act.
Ch. 844 (AB 1016) M I L L E R Amends Sec. 21301, E d . C , re revolving cash
     funds.
  Increases permissible amount of revolving cash fund of school district from 1
percent to 2 percent ot district's estimated expenditures for current fiscal year,
with maximum cash limits of $10,000 rather than $5,000 for elementary school,
high school, or junior college district; $20,000 rather than $10,000 for any unified
district with elementary and high schools; and $30,000 rather than $15,000 for any
unified district with elementary, high school, and junior college schools.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         123

Ch. 845 (AB 1036) P R I O L O Amends Sec. 3351, L a b . C , re workmen's com-
      pensation.
   Redefines "employee" for purposes of the workmen's compensation laws to exclude
officers and directors of private corporations where they are sole shareholders of the
corporations except when their employer has elected to come under certain compen-
sation provisions by specified procedures.
Ch. 846 (AB 1051) M U L P O R D Amends Sec. 817, and adds Sec. 1019.5,
     E d . C , re personal property in schools.
   Authorizes governing body of school district to reimburse, under specified condi-
tions, any person or persons for loss, destruction, or damage by arson, burglary,
or vandalism of personal property used in schools of the district.
   Permits school district to bring action in small claims court or other court of
competent jurisdiction for payments made for damage to or loss of certain personal
property of employees.
Ch. 847 ( A B 1056) SCHABARUM Amends Sec. 39107, adds Sec. 39052.2,
       H. & S.C., re motor vehicle pollution control.
    Authorizes State Air Resources Board to establish exhaust emission standards
for used motor vehicles. Requires that an exhaust emission device not allow emission
exceeding 350 parts per million hydrocarbons, 2 percent monoxide, or 800 parts
per million nitrogen oxide, rather than 275 parts per million hydrocarbons or 1.5
percent carbon monoxide, to be accredited by the board. Authorizes, if no exhaust
emission device meets all three maximum requirements, accreditation under speci-
fied conditions. Specifies that if two or more exhaust emission devices are accredited
t h a t meet specified requirements board may not require installation of more than
one exhaust emission device on any vehicle.
Ch. 848 (AB 1058) S C H A B A R U M Amends Sees. 39127, *39175, and 39178,
      H. & S.C., re used vehicles: accreditation.
   Authorizes State Air Resources Board to determine and publish criteria for
the accreditation of motor vehicle pollution control devices for used motor vehicles
and authorizes revocation, suspension, and restriction of previously granted cer-
tificates when the device no longer meets such criteria.
Ch. 849 (AB 1067) GONSALVES Amends Sec. 104.6, S. & H.C., re property
     held for highways.
  Requires that structures on property acquired for future highway use conform
to local building and safety code requirements.
   Defines such code requirements to which structures must conform, except for
variances applicable to structures, as those code requirements in effect a t time of
acquisition.
Ch. 850 (AB 1079) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 4700, L a b . C , re workmen's compen-
    sation.
  Clarifies that the death of an injured employee terminates the liability of the
employer for both temporary and permanent disability as of the date of death.
Ch. 851 (AB 1084) D E N T Adds Sec. 5077.1, P.R.C., re riding and hiking
     trails.
  Requires Department of Public Works to condemn property for the replacement
of the riding and hiking trail in the vicinity of Alhambra Avenue in Martinez
acquired by the department through the use of eminent domain for highway pur-
poses.
Ch. 852 (AB 1091) RAY E. J O H N S O N Amends Sec. 12723, B . & P.C., re
     weights and measures.
  Provides that a person is not guilty of a crime when he possesses or transports
combination grade and weight certificates to be used by employees of marketing
order boards or grading inspection services of either the Department of Agricul-
ture of this state or the United States under conditions prescribed by regulation
adopted by the Director of Agriculture of this state.
•Correction
124                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 853 ( A B 1092) P R I O L O Adds Sees. 276 and 18654.5, Gov.C, re revision
     of Constitution.
  Requires that delegates to a Constitutional Convention be voters elected from
districts as nearly equal in population as may be practicable. Makes other changes
related to revision of State Constitution by ACA 28.
  Operative on adoption of Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 28 of 1969,
Regular Session.
Ch. 854 ( A B 1095) GONSALVES Adds Sec. 7351.5, P.R.C., re sale of public
     lands.
  Provides that lands belonging to the state, which are suitable for cultivation,
shall be granted only to actual settlers in quantities not to exceed 320 acres for
each settler, under conditions prescribed by law.
  Operative on adoption of Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 30 of the
1969 Regular Session.
Ch. 855 (AB 1096) B A D H A M Amends and adds various sees., *C.C.P., Corp.
     C. and P.U.C., re revision of Constitution.
  Codifies various provisions now found in California Constitution which are to be
omitted from proposed revised portions of Constitution. Provides for procedures
to allow Public Utilities Commission to fix compensation to be paid when property
is condemned for certain grade crossings and railroad rights-of-way and where
property of a public utility is condemned, with the consent of the condemnor and
condemnee under certain circumstances.
  Operative on adoption of Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 31 of 1969
Regular Session.
Ch. 856 (AB 1103) D U N L A P Amends Sec. 228, Prob. C , re succession.
  Directs manner of distribution of specified community and other property of a
decedent which would otherwise escheat to the state.
Ch. 857 ( A B 1130) WAXMAN Amends Sees. 2080.4, 2080.6, 2080.8, Civ.C,
     Sees. 1411, 1418, P e n . C , re sale of unclaimed property.
   Prescribes the manner in which a county purchasing agent may sell various kinds
of unclaimed property, when the property has been transferred to him.
   Permits specified agencies or officers to retain the property that they received
for sale if it is determined that the property is needed for public use.
   Reduces period of time which University of California must hold unclaimed
property before selling it at public auction from six months to three months.
Ch. 858 (AB 1133) B E V E R L Y Amends, renumbers, adds, and repeals various
     sees., I n s . C , re motor clubs.
   Expands definition of motor vehicle for purposes of motor club laws to include
vacation trailer, house or otherwise, and boat capable of ordinary transportation
or boat trailer and its trailer.
   Prohibits motor clubs from furnishing any service on reimbursement basis which
constitutes transaction of insurance.
   Redefines "motor club service" and "insurance service," and defines "travel
service" and "miscellaneous service" for purposes of motor club law.
   Revises provisions relating to certification of motor clubs in California, and de-
fines powers and duties of Insurance Commissioner with regard thereto.
   Makes related changes.
Ch. 859 (AB 1135) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 460, I n s . C , re insurance.
   Exempts from requirement that every printed form of insurance, including every
policy, endorsement^ rider, or amendment thereof issued in this state have an in-
ception hour of 12:01 a.m. of the date it is dated, insurer or agent of insurer
from issuing binder specifying different inception or termination hour, and insurer
issuing normal printed form policy or contract which contains provision extending
period of coverage either 12 hours preceding or following such hour.
   Specifies that section prescribing such requirement shall not apply to surety
insurance, in addition to disability insurance, subject to specified regulations which
are to be promulgated by Insurance Commissioner.
* Correction.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        125

Ch. 860 (AB 1150) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 12002, R. & T.C., re ocean
    marine insurance tax.
  Revises definition of ocean marine insurance for purposes of insurance tax thereon.
  States that revised definition shall be construed as restatement of existing law.
Ch. 861 (AB 1160) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 6737.4, B . & P.C., re contractors:
     designing.
   Declares that Professional Engineers Act does not prohibit a licensed contractor,
while engaged in the business of contracting for the installation of electrical or
mechanical systems or facilities, from designing such systems or facilities in ac-
cordance with applicable construction codes and standards for work to be per-
formed and supervised by such contractor within the classification for which his
license is issued, rather than only designing electrical or mechanical systems or
facilities, as otherwise permitted by law for such work.
Ch. 862 (AB 1177) KNOX Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., R. & T.C., re
     assessing open-space lands.
   Defines various terms with respect to valuation of open-space lands.
   Provides that open-space lands shall be valued for tax purposes by the capitaliza-
tion of income method, which is defined in the enactment. Specifies that provisions
relating to open-space assessments shall not apply to any residence or to an area
of reasonable size used as a site for any such residence. Provides method for valu-
ing land subject to an enforceable restriction and used for production of timber
for commercial purposes.
   Declares that in valuing land subject to an enforceable restriction, trees and
vines on land and not exempt from taxation shall be valued as land.
   To become operative on and after lien date in 1970.
Ch. 863 (AB 1190) L A N T E R M A N Amends Sec. 7356, W . & I . C , re mental
    patients.
  Provides that the person, his estate and relatives are liable for care provided
to person on leave of absence from state hospital, where care is paid for either
by Department of Social Welfare or by Department of Mental Hygiene.
  Requires Department of Mental Hygiene to collect such charges.
Ch. 864 (AB 1205) CORY Adds Sec. 1752.2, W. & I . C , re Youth Authority.
  Authorizes the Youth Authority to purchase annuity contracts for permanent
employees of the authority under the conditions specified.
Ch. 865 (AB 1229) QUIMBY Amends Sec. 5002, P . U . C , re carriers' gross
     operating revenue.
  Redefines "gross operating revenue" for purposes of the Transportation R a t e
Fund. Excludes all revenue derived from the transportation of property in inter-
state or foreign commerce.
Ch. 866 ( A B 1249) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 7375, W . & I . C , re mental
      patients.
   Provides with regard to commitments to a state hospital in a criminal proceeding
in which the alleged offense is not punishable by death that the medical director,
rather than the superintendent, of a state hospital may certify t h a t a patient
who has been confined for ninety days or more, rather than three years or more
for death penalty cases, has improved to such an extent as to no longer be a
danger, rather than a menace, to others, and should be paroled. Provides that if
the court disapproves the opinion, the medical director may not make a further
recommendation within six months, rather than a year for death penalty cases, of
first recommendation.
Ch. 867 (AB 1305) B E V E R L Y Adds Sec. 1561, I n s . C , re insurance: insurers.
  Provides that any law or ruling of any state of the United States or any foreign
country which shall attempt to assume jurisdiction over, or to authorize regulation
or supervision of, a noninsurance affiliate, as defined, of a domestic insurer, where
such attempt is based solely upon the domestic insurer applying for or holding a
certificate of authority to do business in such state or foreign country, whether
such attempt be by registration or through disclosure, reports, examinations, or
other devices imposed on either the insurer or its noninsurance affiliate, directly ox
126                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

indirectly, shall be deemed to be an unreasonable law. Specifies that upon finding
that such unreasonable law has been applied to a domestic insurer or its noninsur-
ance affiliate by such state or foreign country, the commissioner may refuse to
grant an initial certificate of authority, but not a renewal of an existing certificate
of authority, to an insurer organized under the laws of such state or foreign
country thereafter applying to him for authority to do business in this state.
Ch. 868 ( A B 1336) OULLEN Amends Sec. 16310, Gov.C, re state funds.
   Requires payment of interest, at rate which account is earning, on transfers
from Pooled Money Investment Account to General Fund.
Ch. 869 ( A B 1339) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Adds Div. 10.6 (commencing with
     Sec. 11920), H. & S.C., re narcotics, restricted dangerous drugs.
  Provides for the custody, evaluation, and treatment of users of narcotics and
restricted dangerous drugs.
Ch. 870 (AB 1353) WAXMAN Amends Sec. 381, repeals and adds Sec. 224,
     Elec.C, re voter registration. -
   Permits voters, whose registrations are subject to cancellation because they
moved to another precinct within the county, in lieu of executing a new affidavit
of registration, to notify the county clerk of address change.
   Declares that such notification is effective only for elections held 54 or more days
from date of notification.
Ch. 871 ( A B 1377) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 9104, Com.C, re secured trans-
     actions.
  Exempts from secured transactions regulation any security interest created by
assignment of benefits of any public construction contract under Improvement
Act of 1911.
Ch. 872 ( A B 1389) M O O R H E A D Adds Art. 4 (commencing with Sec. 2960),
     Ch. 7, Title 1, Pt. 3, Pen.C, re mentally disordered prisoners.
   Provides for treatment and evaluation or intensive treatment, pursuant to speci-
fied provisions of law, of a prisoner who is a danger to others as a result of
mental disorder.
Ch. 873 ( A B 1405) K N O X Amends Sees. 18624.2 and 18669.1, F i n . C , re
     loan companies.
   Provides provisions of Industrial Loan Law, relating to certain transactions
between industrial loan company and specified persons and transactions under a
name other than that set forth in articles of incorporation of such company shall
not be applicable to premium finance agency.
   Provides insurance producer who prepares insurance premium finance agreement
for premium finance agency in his office shall not be considered a broker of such
agency rather than providing that such an insurance producer shall not be con-
sidered a broker of such agency if he receives no compensation or fees in excess of
regular insurance commission for the preparation and handling of the premium
finance agreement from such agency.
Ch. 874 ( A B 1419) MOBLEY Adds Sec. 5119, S. & H.C., re Improvement
    Act of 1911.
  Declares that exclusive of any other provision, county board of supervisors may
take specified actions with respect to assessment district created by board under
Improvement Act of 1911 and lying wholly within a city, after obtaining required
consent of legislative body of city.
Ch. 875 ( A B 1428) KNOX Adds Sec. 443.1, R. & T.C., re taxpayers' property
     statements.
  Provides that if a taxpayer's property statement is timely filed in duplicate with a
request that the assessor mark on the duplicate statement opposite each category
of property reported on the statement, the full cash value of such category of
property as determined by the assessor, the assessor shall perform such service and
shall return the duplicate to the person filing it no later than July 15 of the
year in which it was filed.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         127

Ch. 876 (AB 1429) KNOX Adds Art. 6 (commencing with Sec. 6 9 0 ) , Ch. 5,
     Div. 1, F i n . C , re banks.
  Prohibits bank organized under laws of this state from offering or selling any
security issued by it unless the Superintendent of Banks has issued a permit
authorizing such sale. Defines "security" and other terms, and provides procedures
for applying for and issuing permit.
Ch. 877 (AB 1437) R U S S E L L Amends Sec. 270, F i n . C , re banks.
   Changes the limit on the amount of the annual assessment that the Superintend-
ent of Banks collects pro rata from banks and trust companies to meet the
expenses of the State Banking Department from one one-hundredth of 1 percent
to 0.0125 percent of the bank or trust company's total resources, without deduction
of secured deposits of public moneys and bills payable.
Ch. 878 (AB* 1438) R U S S E L L Amends Sec. 704.5, I n s . C ^ re insurance: cer-
      tificate of authority.
  Expands authority of Insurance Commissioner to decline to grant a certificate
of authority to transact business as an insurer or to suspend or revoke such a
certificate where officer or director of insurer has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty or nolo contendere to any of specified crimes, to extend to case where person
owning or controlling 10 percent or more of stock of insurer, its subsidiary or
any organization controlling it has been so convicted or has so pleaded.
  Deletes provision relative to renewal of a certificate of authority in this regard.
Ch. 879 ( A B 1447) CORY Amends Sees. 7184 and 7187, F i n . C , re savings
     and loan associations.
   Authorizes savings and loan associations, subject to prescribed conditions, includ-
ing $5,000 maximum limitation, to make loans, advance credit, and purchase obli-
gations representing loans and advances of credit, with or without security, for
the purpose of financing repairs, alterations, improvements, or equipment, except
furnishings, on real property, rather than for the purpose of making improve-
ments on residential real property.
   Authorizes such associations, subject to commissioner's regulations, to make
loans, advance credit, and purchase obligations representing loans and advances of
credit, for the purpose of mobile dwelling financing, rather than for the purpose of
financing the acquisition of mobile dwellings.
Ch. 880 (AB 1464) D U F F Y Amends Sec. 14104, W . & I . C , re medical assist-
     ance.
   Authorizes Department of Health Care Services to provide in contracts with-
carriers providing Medi-Cal coverage a limitation on benefit coverage either by a
fixed number of days, amount, or duration of services, and to provide that the
earrier continue -to administer the benefits provided beyond the applicable limita-
tion, with the state paying the reasonable costs and charges incurred by reason of
the extended coverage.
   Declares legislative intent is to authorize a limitation on carrier liability in
catastrophic or extended-care situations.
Ch. 881 (AB 1473) M A C D O N A L D Adds Sees. 4806.5 and 4808.5, H . & S.C.,
     re county sanitation districts.
   Authorizes board of directors of county sanitation district in Ventura County
to include in resolution proposing incurring of bonded indebtedness of district for
an improvement district as general objects and purposes of the incurring of the
bonded indebtedness the acquisition, construction or reconstruction of new local
street sewers or laterals. Requires inclusion in resolution of such district t h a t
special rates or charges to finance improvement may be collected in the improvement
district where, in judgment of board, improvement will not be of district-wide
benefit.
Ch. 882 (AB 1484) VEYSEY Adds Sec. 560, E d . C , re community colleges:
     federal funds.
  Authorizes governing board of school district maintaining a community college
to participate in various enumerated federal programs, and further authorizes such
board to spend funds as matching funds for federal grants, if such is required by
the federal program.
   In effect immediately.
128                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 883 (AB 1487) VEYSEY New act, re Salton Sea.
  Declares the interest of the people of the State of California in preserving the
Salton Sea, authorizes state participation in federal-state investigation of the S a l -
ton Sea and makes an appropriation of $47,500 from specified funds to be expended
according to prescribed schedule.
  Provides no funds will be expended unless there is federal participation and
reconnaissance level investigations indicate a favorable cost ratio.
Ch. 884 ( A B 1492) GONSALVES Amends Sec. 61806, adds Sees. 61806.5,
     62474.5, Ag.C, re milk.
   Provides specifically that nothing contained in this section or in any other pro-
vision of the Agricultural Code shall be deemed or construed to preclude a person
operating, owning or servicing automatic vending machines dispensing containers
of less than a quart of milk from being licensed as a distributor if the milk such
person sells or distributes is through vending machines other than in retail stores
or establishments it owns, operates or controls and is purchased at no less than
the wholesale price and provided further that the sale of milk through an automatic
vending machine sold principally or primarily for consumption on or adjacent
to the premises where sold shall not be deemed a sale by or at a retail store or
establishment whether or not such milk is sold in conjunction with other food
products.
   Redefines "distributor" for the purposes of the chapter on stabilization and
marketing of fluid milk and fluid cream.
   Prescribes conditions under which subdistributor prices for fluid milk and fluid
cream are to apply.
Ch. 885 ( A B 1519) P R I O L O Adds Sees. 2712.5 and 3272, U.I.C., re disability
     insurance.
   Provides that, in a case of disputed coverage proceeding under provision of law
relating to unemployment disability benefits, if a final decision of the Unemploy-
ment Insurance Appeals Board or an Appeals Board referee finds that an employer
or insurer shall reimburse the Unemployment Disability Fund and the employer
or insurer fails to pay all or any part of the reimbursement within 15 days after
the mailing of a final decision, the Director of Employment shall assess the unpaid
amount against the employer or insurer pursuant to specified provisions of law
dealing with assessments and penalties by the director and the priority and lien
status of unemployment tax claims.
   Provides that provisions relating to refunds and credit of overpaid employer or
worker contributions to unemployment fund, or erroneously collected penalties,
shall apply to various voluntary disability insurance plan assessments and liabili-
ties and reimbursement of disputed coverage amounts.
Ch. 886 ( A B 1532) B I D D L E Amends Sec. 23057, E d . C , re University of
     California.
   Includes student whose spouse is in the active military service of the United
States in provisions presently relating to an unmarried minor whose parent is in
such service and such minor's residence status upon transfer of the parent to a
place outside the United States.
Ch. 887 ( A B 1540) S C H A B A R U M Repeals Ch. 4 (commencing with               Sec.
    8150), Div. 8, W. & I.C., re handicapped children.
  Eliminates the Coordinating Council on Programs for Handicapped Children.
Ch. 888 (AB 1552) Z E N O V I C H Amends Sees. 8 and 26, Fresno Metropolitan
     Flood Control Act (Ch. 503, Stats. 1955), re Fresno metropolitan flood control.
   Authorizes district to develop property for recreational vises and purposes in con-
nection with its use for the control or conservation of waters and to lease or contract
for use or development thereof for recreational purposes. Avithorizes district to
lease, let, sell, or dispose of district property upon specified findings by two-thirds
vote of district board, and to pay any compensation received into the general fund
of the district.
   Specifies that resolution of district board determining the necessity of the taking
of a particular property interest by eminent domain shall be prima facie evidence
of the public necessity of the proposed improvement, t h a t the interest to be taken
is necessary therefor, and that the improvement is placed or located in the manner
most compatible with the greatest public good and least private injury.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          129

Ch. 889 (AB 1644) B A G L E Y Amends Sees. 23361 and 23362, R. & T.O., re
     corporate t a x : railroads.
   Revises definition of affiliated group and authorization to file consolidated tax
return as such, with regard to taxation of railroad corporations. Provides t h a t re-
vised definition of "affiliated group" shall not preclude application of income alloca-
tion provisions.
Ch. 890 ( A B 1645) B E V E R L Y Amends, adds various sees., F i n . C , re bank
     reserves.
  Adds deposits subject to call with reserve depositaries to list of reserves, equal
to at least 1 percent of deposits, required to be maintained by a savings bank.
   Authorizes the Superintendent of Banks to increase, as well as decrease, within
specified limits the amount of reserves required to. be maintained by commercial
banks, nondepartmental banks, and savings banks that are not members of Federal
Reserve bank.
  Provides that reserves required of commercial banks and savings banks shall
be computed for such period, in such manner, and on such basis as the superin-.
tendent may prescribe by rule or regulation, rather than on the basis of average-
daily net deposit balances covering biweekly periods.
Ch. 891 (AB 1670) F O R A N Amends Sec. 228, S. & H.C., re state scenic
     highways.
  Adds the Office of Tourism and Visitor Services to those state agencies which
the Advisory Committee on a Master Plan for Scenic Highways may consult with
for technical and other assistance.
Ch. 892 (AB 1681) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 769, F i n . C , re banks.
  Increases the maximum aggregate amount, from 2 to 10 percent of a bank's
capital and surplus, which a bank may invest in the stock of small business invest-
ment companies authorized to operate under the Small Business Investment Act.
Ch. 893 (AB 1683) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 10783, R. & T.C., amends Sec.
     9105, Veh.C, re motor vehicles: disabled veteran^.
   Exempts specified veterans who have lost, or have lost the use of, two or more
limbs or one eye and any limb, rather than both legs, from paying specified fees
on any one vehicle owned by such veteran, other than a commercial vehicle, sub-
ject to registration.
Ch. 894 ( A B 1702) B E V E R L Y Adds Art. 6.5 (commencing with Sec. 38780),
     Ch. 10, P t . 2, Div. 3, Title 4, Gov.C, re sales of residences.
  Authorizes cities to enact ordinance requiring sellers of residences to obtain
report showing authorized use, occupancy, and zoning classifications of the building
and property prior to sale, to be prepared by city. Excepts therefrom first sale of
residential building located in a subdividion with final map recorded not more than
two years prior to such sale. Authorizes fees for cost thereof. Requires that such
ordinance make noncompliance unlawful. Provides t h a t noncompliance with such
ordinance shall not invalidate any sale or exchange unless the same would other-
wise constitute grounds for rescission.
Ch. 895 (AB 1703) B E V E R L Y Adds Sec. 772, F i n . C , re stock holdings of
     banks.
  Authorizes a bank, with the prior written approval of the Superintendent of
Banks and subject to such regulations and rules as he may prescribe, to acquire
and hold not less than 80 percent of the voting stock of one or more corporations
that perform functions a bank may perform other than receipt of deposits.
Ch. 896 (AB 1728) D E N T Adds Ch. 4 (commencing with Section 13801),
    Div. 10, repeals Ch. 4 (commencing with Section 13801), Div. 10, E d . C , re
    State Teachers' Retirement Law.
  Revises State Teachers' Retirement Law declaring act to be a nonsubstantive,
technical and clarifying revision.
Ch. 897 (AB 1740) B R I T S C H G I Adds Sec. 25539, Gov.C, re sale of county
     realty.
   Permits the board of supervisors to adopt an alternative procedure for the sale of
eounty real property.
   Requires the procedure adopted to include certain existing provisions and condi-
tions now required by law.
     5—L-2180
130                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 898 (AB 1750) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 31100, W a t . C , re county water
     districts.
  Authorizes county water districts to acquire, construct, and operate sewer waste
and storm water facilities for inhabitants otitside district boundaries, except that
such service may not be provided to the inhabitants of any other public agency,
as defined, without the consent of such agency.
Ch. 899 ( A B 1726) QTJIMBY New act, re property taxes.
   Permits persons qualified for homeowners' $70 property tax rebate for 1968-1969
fiscal year and for homeowners' property tax exemption for 1969-1970 fiscal year
who filed an application for only one, to file an application for the other on or
before September 1, 1969.
   Permits veterans whose claims for the veterans' exemption for the 1969-1970
fiscal year are disallowed to file claims for the homeowners' exemption for such
year until on or before September 1, 1969, if otherwise qualified for the home-
owners' exemption.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 900 (AB 2349) RAY E. J O H N S O N New act, re homeowners' property
      tax exemption.
   Permits veterans whose claims for the veterans' exemption for the 1969-1970
fiscal year are disallowed to file claims for the homeowners' exemption for such
year until September 1, 1969, if otherwise qualified for the homeowners' exemption
and provides for corresponding correction of the assessment.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 901 (AB 1753) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 3104, Gov.C, re oaths, public em-
      ployees.
   Authorizes loyalty oath or affirmation to be taken by civil defense workers, rather
than civil defense workers of the state, before the appointing power or person
authorized by appointing power. Eliminates requirement that oath or affirmation of
civil defense workers of the state be filed with State Personnel Board.
Ch. 902 (AB 1754) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 675b, adds Sec. 675c, C.C.P., r e
     judgment: bankruptcy.
   Provides that, in any action or proceeding to enforce judgment, party against
whom judgment was recovered may file certified copy of order discharging him
from debts in bankruptcy, and court shall direct such judgment canceled or dis-
charged if it appears that judgment or debt upon which judgment was recovered
has been discharged and at least one year has elapsed since such discharge.
   Provides that court shall consider such evidence on issue whether judgment or
debt upon which judgment was recovered has been discharged.
Ch. 903 (AB 1762) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 1166a, C.C.P., re writ of possession.
  Requires motion, notice, and hearing before court may issue writ of possession in
forcible entry or unlawful detainer action. Sets forth contents of notice which
must be served, as prescribed, and allows both parties to file affidavits with court
and present oral testimony at hearing on motion.
Ch. 904 (AB 1763) HAYES Adds Sec. 1718, Civ.C, re credit card liability.
   Provides that cardholder, as defined, is not liable for any unauthorized use
of credit card which has not become accepted credit card, as defined. Provides that
where accepted credit card is lost or stolen after it has reached cardholder and
cardholder gives specified notice to card issuer, cardholder is not liable for any
unauthorized use of the credit card.
  Applies only to credit cards originally issued or renewed on or after effective
date of section.
Ch. 905 (AB 1764) H A Y E S Adds Sec. 1719, Civ.C, re credit cards.
  Requires credit card issuer to separately state and label all fees, charges, and
penalties whenever fees, charges, or penalties are assessed against the credit card-
holder for the use of credit card.
Ch. 906 (AB 1772) DAVIS Adds Sec. 11910.1, W a t . C , re water project
    planning.
  Directs Department of Fish and Game and Department of Parks and Recreation
and other governmental agencies to submit their recommendations or comments on
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        131

reconnaissance studies or feasibility reports of Department of W a t e r Resources re
a state water project or feature of a project within 60 days following receipt of
formal request for review from Department of Water Resources.
Ch. 907 (AB 1776) D U F F Y Amends Sees. 4300 and 4307, W . & I.C., re
     state hospitals.
   Changes state hospital resident position of medical program director to program
director, and allows position to be filled by professional persons who do not meet
qualifications of medical director except if the duties include the medical care
of patients, but meet standards prescribed by the Director of Mental Hygiene.
Ch, 908 (AB 1782) RAY E. J O H N S O N Amends Sec, 12878, W a t . C , re main-
     tenance areas.
  Broadens definition of the term "project" as used with respect to water develop-
ment project maintenance areas to include certain small projects for which funds
are available pursuant to specified federal flood control act.
Ch. 909 ( A B 1796) K E T C H U M Amends Sec. 2877, P e n . C , re prison-made
      goods.
   Authorizes sale of prison-made goods at the state prisons, in public buildings,
a t fairs or on property operated by nonprofit associations, rather than only a t the
state prison, on the premises thereof and in the prison store.
Ch. 910 ( A B 1801) D E N T Adds Sees. 13190.5 and 13192.5, E d . C , re teaching
     credentials.
  Provides that standard teaching credentials with specialization in elementary
or secondary teaching shall authorize the holder to teach any subject in juvenile
detention facilities classes. Provides that holder of secondary credential may teach
any subject in the home or a hospital teaching grades 7 to 12.
Ch. 911 (AB 1811) D U N L A P Repeals, adds Sees. 19052 and 26072, R. &
     T.C., re taxation.
   Eliminates prohibition against allowing a credit, and revises prohibition against
allowing a refund, on personal income tax or bank and corporation tax in excess
of $1,000 until approved by the State Board of Control.
Ch. 912 ( A B 1816) B E L O T T I Amends Sec. 19405, Gov.C, re state civil serv-
     ice.
  Revises provision allowing State Personnel Board to grant a three-year extension
of rights and benefits of state civil service employee on military leave when the
existing time limitations on return to the civil service are unreasonable by removing
requirement that unreasonableness of limitations be caused by circumstances be-
yond individual's control. Declares, that foregoing provisions rather than certain
provisions in the Military and Veterans Code govern state civil service employees.
Makes provision applicable to person separated from military service during three-
year period prior to the effective date of bill if application for such extension is
made by June 30, 1970.
Ch. 913 ( A B 1823) M I L I A S Amends Sees. 10001, 10002, 10003, 10004, Elec.C,
     and Sec. 1387, E d . C , re ballot paper.
  Authorizes Secretary of State to make available ballot paper to any jurisdiction
holding an election, instead of only to counties and cities, and adds the require-
ment that punchcards be available.
  Requires school districts to use such paper or punchcards.
Ch. 914 (AB 1824) M I L I A S Amends Sec. 17902, Elec.C, re election canvass.
  Requires county clerk to transmit semiofficial returns to Secretary of State in
manner and under schedule prescribed by him prior to the election, but in no
event, at intervals greater than 2 hours, rather than to transmit returns after
each 2 hours following commencement of semiofficial canvass until 12 hours pass
and then every 6 hours for the next 12 hours.
Ch. 915 ( A B 1838) FONG Amends and adds various sees., Gov.C, R. & T.C.
     and U.I.C., re registration of tax liens.
   Authorizes and establishes procedures for filing of statewide personal property
liens by state to secure payment of sales and use taxes, personal income tax, bank
and corporation taxes, and unemployment compensation insurance taxes.
   Operative J a n u a r y 1, 1970.
132                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 916 (AB 1854) MOBLEY New act, re Madera County flood control.
  Creates Madera County Flood Control and Water Conservation Agency, consist-
ing of all the territory of Madera County. Prescribes organization, operation, man-
agement, financing, and other powers and duties of such agency.
Ch. 917 ( A B 1869) L A N T E R M A N Amends Sec. 135.3, S. & H.C., re replace-
     ment housing.
  Requires initial program for replacement housing for construction of State High-
Way Route 105 in Los Angeles to be conducted in a manner conducive to maximum
community participation. Exempts contracts for such replacement housing from
conventional contracting procedures in favor of procedures established by Director
of Public Works to achieve maximum community participation consistent with
the economical completion of the freeway projects.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 918 (AB 1870) L A N T E R M A N Amends Sec. 5908.5, L a b . C , re work-
    men's compensation.
  Provides that the requirements of the section relating to decisions of the Work-
men's Compensation Appeals Board shall not be construed so as to broaden the
scope of judicial review of appeals board decisions.
Ch. 919 ( A B 1873) MOBLEY Adds Sec. *13143.1, H . & S.C., re fire protec-
     tion.
   Authorizes local entities to assess fees against owner of occupancy for inspection
of places of deliberation, worship, drinking or dining and awaiting transportation.
Such authorization effective until 91st day after adjournment of 1973 Regular Ses-
sion of Legislature.
Ch. 920 ( A B 1874) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 24225, H . & S.C., re air pollution
    hearing boards.
  Provides for exceptions from the professional qualifications imposed for members
of hearing boards for certain county air pollution control districts where persons
with such qualifications are not available to serve thereon.
Ch. 921 (AB 1878) B A R N E S Adds Art. 1.5 (commencing with Sec. 21320),
     Ch. 5, Div. 16, E d . C , re school district funds.
  As alternative to establishing or maintaining revolving cash funds pursuant to
current provisions, authorizes school districts having average daily attendance of
75,000 or more to establish revolving cash funds for use by school principals and
other administrative officials designated by school district governing board for
purchase of supplies. Provides that total amount of such funds for each district
shall not exceed 3 percent of the current instructional supply budget.
  Authorizes school district to establish checking accounts for such funds in one
or more banks.
  Provides that specified bonding provisions are applicable with respect to such
cash funds for supplies.
Ch. 922 ( A B 1881) B A R N E S Amends Sec. 31726.5, Gov.C, re county employ-
     ees' retirement.
   Provides that the allowance for non-service-connected disability for safety mem-
bers under the age of 55 shall be the sum to which he would be entitled to as
service retirement or a specified annuity or disability retirement pension rather
than such specified annuity or pension.
Ch. 923 ( A B 1885) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. * 189, P e n . C , re crimes: bombs
    and explosives.
  Provides t h a t murder perpetrated by bomb, as defined, is murder of first degree.
Ch. 924 ( A B 1888) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 1737.1, W . & I.C., re Youth Au-
     thority.
  Provides that if person convicted of public offense is sent to Youth Authority
and it returns him to committing court as improper person or incorrigble and
court sends him to state prison the maximum term shall be maximum term for the
public offense committed less time served under Youth Authority. Gives Adult
Authority power with advice of Youth Authority to allow such person time-credit
reductions from his term according to table in Penal Code, for time under Youth
Authority.
* Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          133

Ch. 925 (AB 1890) M U R P H Y Adds Sec. 312.1, P e n . C , re obscenity: evi-
    dence.
  Provides that expert witnesses are not required to determine harmful or obscene
character of matter in cases involving obscenity or harmful matter, and permits
any evidence tending to establish various elements of obscenity or harmful matter.
Ch. 926 (AB 1934) SCHABARUM Adds Sec. 94.5, S. & H.C., re highway
     construction contracts.
  Authorizes Department of Public works to provide in any of its construction con-
tracts extra compensation, up to 50 percent of net savings in construction cost
as determined by department, to contractor for proposal resulting in cost reduction
changes in plans and specifications of the project.
   Limits such extra compensation provisions to contracts awarded to lowest
bidder pursuant to competitive bidding. Provides that such provisions shall remain
in force and effect only for contracts awarded prior to J a n u a r y 1, 1972. Requires
department to submit annual report describing its experience under such provisions
during previous year by January 30 to Legislature.
Ch. 927 (AB 1980) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 17572, B . & P.O., re vending
     machines.
  Prescribes punishment of not to exceed $100 for each violation of misdemeanor
provisions relating to placing names and addresses of owners of vending machines
on such machines.
Ch. 928 (AB 2000) KNOX Amends Sec. 10132, adds Sec. 10131.3 and Ch. 4
     (commencing with Sec. 10250), P t . 1, Div. 4, B . & P.O., re real estate securi-
     ties.
  Enacts Real Estate Syndicate Act. Provides for regulation of issue of real
estate syndicate securities by Real Estate Commissioner.
  Provides act to become operative on J a n u a r y 2, 1970.
Ch. 929 (AB 2003) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 25353, Gov.C., re counties.
  Provides that, whenever a county is the successor of a harbor improvement
district, its supervisors have all powers and duties of former district board with
respect to the acquisition, improvement, and management of harbors or public
beaches within the county.
Ch. 930 (AB 2008) B A D H A M Amends Sees. 6896 and 6897; repeals and adds.
     Art. 6.5 (commencing with Sec. 6904), Ch. 8, Div. 3, B . & P.C., re collec-
     tion agencies: conservatorships.
  Deletes existing provisions for placing insolvent collection agency licensee in
receivership and sets out procedures for appointment of, and provisions governing
actions of, conservator for such licensee. Makes conforming changes.
Ch. 931 (AB 2027) M A O D O N A L D Amends Sec. 933.5, P e n . C , re grand juries.
  Provides that grand jury may investigate and report upon method or system of
performing duties of any special-purpose assessing or taxing district located wholly
or partly in county.
Ch. 932 (AB 2028) M A O D O N A L D Amends Sec. 65302, Gov.C, re local agency
    plans: flooding.
  Requires the general plans of counties and cities to identify areas covered by
the plan which are subject to flooding. Requires the plans to be reviewed annually
with respect to areas subject to flooding.
Ch. 933 (AB 2037) M U L F O R D Amends Sec. 30462, R. & T.C., re cigarette
     tax subventions.
  Reduces subventions to counties, cities and counties and cities from 30 percent
of the revenues derived under the Cigarette Tax Law by deducting 30 percent of
the cost of administering such law from such subventions with respect to revenues
derived from taxes imposed on and after J a n u a r y I, 1970.
   Incorporates changes in Sec. 30462, R. & T.C., made by Ch. 128, Stats. 1969.
Ch. 934 ( A B 2055) K N O X Amends Sec. 30065, W a t . C , re county water dis-.
    tricts.
  Specifies that provisions prohibiting formation of specified public coprorations
and public agencies within a county water district without the consent of the
134                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

district shall not be construed to prevent a city from annexing territory within a
Gounty water district.
Ch. 935 (AB 2084) K N O X Amends Sec. 5652, Gov.C, re contracts concern-
     ing public securities.
  Prohibits contract providing a local public body a report of the feasibility of
the issuance of public securities if contract is with person who is in business of
rating public securities unless contract provides t h a t such person will not r a t e
securities of agency, or entity to which it is a party, for two years.
Ch. 936 (AB 2119) R U S S E L L Amends Sec. 1327, E d . C , re school district
     elections.
  Changes time from 12 o'clock noon of the 54th day to not less than 54th day
before election for purposes of the law relating to determining candidacy for
school board vacancies in school district elections, and provides that it shall be
deemed that no person has been nominated for the position of school board
member where there is only one candidate for each position of governing board
member to be filled, and there is more than one such position to be filled and the
number of candidates does not exceed the number of positions.
  Provides that, for the purposes of certain provisions of law relating to the con-
duct of school board elections, "nominated" or "nomination" includes candidacy by
declaration of candidacy.
Ch. 937 (AB 2209) FONG Amends Sees. 11870, 11871, 11872, 11873, and
     11874, E d . C , re nutrition periods.
  Authorizes school district governing boards to provide, without charge or at a
reduced price, other nutrition periods during which foods or beverages, or both, are
served to pupils, and makes related changes.
Ch. 938 ( A B 2217) L E W I S Amends Sec. 3120, adds Sec. 3123, Gov.C, re air
     travel insurance.
  Authorizes county superintendent of schools to obtain air travel insurance for
own office and to carry master policy for air travel insurance on behalf of school
districts of county.
Ch. 939 (AB 2225) P E I O L O Adds Sec. 15912.1, Elec.C, re punchcard voting
     systems.
  Permits deletion of ballot card stubs in the case of ballot cards used for absent
voting.
Ch. 940 ( A B 2229) P R I O L O Amends and adds various sees., Elec.C, re local
    measures.
  Changes various procedures for circulating and filing local initiative, referendum,
and recall petitions.
Ch. 941 (AB 2247) M I L I A S Amends Sec. 10603, E d . C , re pupils: suspension
     or expulsion.
   Permits principal, as well as superintendent, to suspend pupil under specified
circumstances when previously authorized by governing board.
Ch. 942 ( A B 2266) B E V E R L Y Adds Art. 5 (commencing with Sec. 21690.20),
     Ch. 4, P t . 1, Div. 9, P . U . C , re Los Angeles International Airport.
   Establishes procedures for homeowners whose residential property has been de-
preciated in value because of its proximity to Los Angeles International Airport
and which is condemned or otherwise acquired for expansion of the airport to
petition for an award representing the amount such property has been depreciated
in value by the presence and operation of the airport. Directs Los Angeles Board of
Airport Commissioners to pay any such award.
   Requires Mayor of Los Angeles, with approval of city council, to appoint 5-man
board to hear such petitions. Declares that members shall serve a t pleasure of
mayor.
   Authorizes Los Angeles Department of Airports to render other relocation as-
sistance to affected homeowners.
Ch. 943 (AB 2285) S T U L L Amends Sec. 32100.1, H. & S.C, re hospital dis-
    tricts.
  Authorizes county clerk of organizing county of local hospital district to accept
and distribute arguments for and against a measure relating to the election of
                    1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        135

directors of such district by zones to the voters of the district, in accordance with
the procedure for district measures in the Elections Code.
Ch. 944 (AB 2292) B A G L E Y Adds Sec. 1318.1, P e n . C , re release: own re-
     cognizance.
   Authorizes court, with concurrence of board of supervisors, to employ investiga-
tive staff for purpose of recommending whether defendant should be released on
own recognizance.
   Provides that salaries of such staff are proper county charge.
Chi. 945 (AB 2319) S T U L L Adds Art. 1.6 (commencing with Sec. 21330), CK.
     5, Div. 16, E d . C , re cash funds: schools.
   Prescribes procedure for governing board of any school district to establish a
revolving cash fund for the purpose of paying bills for purchase of $100 or less
by the district. Requires monthly list of such payments to be approved by the
governing board.
   Prescribes procedure for establishment and replenishment of funds and specifies
monetary limits for such funds depending on size of district.
   Provides that person issuing check drawn on such fund will be personally liable
for amount of check if the expenditure is in violation of rules and regulations,
adopted by governing board with respect to such revolving cash fund.
Ch. 946 (AB 2346) L E W I S Amends Sec. 662, F i n . C , re b a n k s : notes and
     debentures.
   Provides that capital notes and debentures of banks from time to time out-
standing shall be deemed "capital," "paid-up capital," and "paid-in capital," as such
terms are used in provisions relating to loan limits for commercial, nondepart-
mental, and savings banks.

Ch. 947 (AB 79) MONAGAN Amends Sees. 12513 and 12514, Veh.C,- re
     junior driving permits.
  Increases maximum age from 16 to 18 years of recipient of a junior driving per-
mit and age period for which such a permit may be issued.
  Requires Department of Motor Vehicles to cancel such a permit within 6 months
of issuance unless holder completes specified driver education and training courses.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 12513,. Veh.C, proposed by AB 826, to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 826.
Ch. 948 (AB 708) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 6830, Elec.C, re independent nomina-
     tions.
   Prohibits persons who are registered as affiliated with a qualified political party
or who were so registered during the year prior to the preceding primary election
a t which a candidate was nominated for the office referred to in his nomination
papers from being candidates under independent nomination procedure.
Ch. 949 (SB 40) C A R R E L L Amends Sees. 36500, 36508, adds Sec. 24615,
     Veh.C, re slow-moving vehicles.
   Generally prohibits the operation upon a public highway of any vehicle or com-
bination of vehicles designed to be and operated a t a speed of 25 m.p.h. or less,
unless a "slow-moving vehicle emblem" is displayed by the rearmost vehicle. Au-
thorizes use of such emblem on other vehicles or combination of vehicles operated
at speed of 25 m.p.h. or less. Prohibits, with specified exceptions, display of such
emblem except as required by these provisions.
   Prohibits sale after prescribed date of new implement of husbandry designed or
intended by manufacturer to be operated or moved a t speed of not in excess of
25 miles per hour unless such vehicle is equipped by manufacturer with slow-moving
vehicle emblem as defined. Requires such an emblem to be displayed and main-
tained thereafter on such implement while the implement is able to be operated
upon a public highway.
   Deletes prohibition against display of slow-moving vehicle emblem except as
required by See. 35508, Veh.C
   Deletes inconsistent provisions.
Ch. 950 (SB 41) C A R R E L L Amends Sec. 1, Ch. 1318, Stats. 1968, re state
    lands.
  Specifies that, for a five-year period, the Director of General Services may dispose
of certain property in Los Angeles County, former site of San Fernando State
 136                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION' SUMMARY DIGEST

 Hospital, only to a public body or local governmental agency who will dedicate
 such property exclusively for public park recreational or public educational pur-
 poses, or both.
 Ch. 951 ( S B 52) A L Q U I S T New act, re public assistance.
   Declares that money appropriated by Item 345 of Budget Act of 1969 shall also
 be used for Aid to Families with Dependent Children.
 Ch. 952 ( S B 115) DYMALLY Amends Sees. 6478.5, 6478.7, E d . C , and Sec.
       2, Stats. 1968, Ch. 1450, re compensatory education.
   Makes permissive, rather t h a n mandatory, various specified components of a
 More Effective Schools Program.
   Permits up to $1,000,000 of federal funds, rather than $500,000, to be used for
 facilities, construction, and personnel, rather than only for facilities.
   Limits to $1,000,000 the amount of federal funds which may be annually allo-
 cated by the Educational Innovation Commission to the More Effective Schools
 Program.
   In effect immediately.
 Ch. 953 ( S B 122) T E A L E Amends Sec. 7451, adds Sec. 7451.7, E d . C , re re-
      gional occupational centers.
    Makes establishment of regional occupational centers and regional occupational
 programs subject to consent of the State Board of Education. Provides that cur-
 riculum of such centers and programs shall be subject to approval of Department
 of Education and shall comply with requirements and standards set forth in
 State Plan for Vocational Education. Requires consideration of vocational educa-
 tion opportunities offered by junior colleges serving the same geographical area
 before approval of regional occupation centers and programs shall be made. Re-
 quires State Board of Education to adopt rules and regulations establishing guide-
 lines and criteria for differentiating between courses appropriate for centers and
 those appropriate for high schools.
Ch. 954 ( S B 137) W E D W O R T H Adds Sec. 12022.5, P e n . C , re criminal pen-
      alties.
   Requires additional punishment of imprisonment for period of not less than 5
years for any person who uses firearm in commission or attempted commission of
robbery, assault with deadly weapon, murder, rape, burglary, or kidnapping, and
requires that such additional punishment run consecutively with punishment for the
crime for which such person is convicted. Specifies additional periods of imprison-
ment, to run consecutively, for second, third, or fourth or subsequent convictions
under like circumstances.
   Provides that additional punishment applies even in cases where use of weapon
is element of offense.
 Ch. 955 ( S B 146) MOSCONE Amends and adds various sees., H. & S.C., re
      community redevelopment.
    Allows legislative body of a city or county to call upon residents and community
 organizations in redevelopment area to form a project area committee, comprising
 specified classes of persons, considered representative by the legislative body and
 serving without compensation, prescribes such a committee's functions and duties,
 requires community redevelopment agency, upon direction of and approval of legis-
 lative body, to consult with such committee on specified aspects of redevelopment
 project in that area throughout a 3-year period subject to 1-year extensions by the
legislative body, and requires redevelopment agency or community to allocate
funds or equivalent resources to such committee.
   Defines "low- and moderate-income housing units" and "low- and moderate-
income persons."
   Requires legislative body to insure that method or plan of the agency for reloca-
tion of families or single persons to be displaced by a project provide that no
persons or families of low and moderate income be displaced unless and until there
is a suitable housing unit available and ready for occupancy by such displaced
person or family at comparable rents.
   Requires new housing in redeveloped area to be made available by specified
means for rent or purchase by low- and moderate-income families, with those dis-
placed to be given a priority, but state failure to give such priority shall not
affect the validity of title to real property.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           137

   Makes provision for suitable housing to be available in. a residential redevelop-
ment project to the former residents thereof.
   Permits redevelopment agency to provide housing units by enumerated means
for persons displaced by the redevelopment project within the community, both
inside and outside the project area.
   Permits waiver of competitive bid requirement for certain work by agency
and permits such agency, when contracting such work, to give priority to the
residents of such areas for the purpose of providing employment for residents of
redevelopment project area and for persons displaced from such areas as a result
of redevelopment activities.
Oh. 956 ( S B 176) S H E R M A N Adds Sec. 40300.5, Veh.C, re drunk driving:
     arrest authority.
  Authorizes peace officers to arrest without w a r r a n t a person involved in a traffic
accident when such officer has reasonable cause to believe that such person was
driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor or of such liquor and any
drug.
Ch. 957 ( S B 193) D I L L S Adds Sec. 27707, Gov.C, re public defenders.
   Provides that the court in which proceeding is pending may make the final deter-
mination as to whether a defendant is financially able to employ counsel and quali-_
fies for the services of a public defender. Authorizes court or public defender to
require the filing of a financial statement by the defendant. Requires the public
defender to render certain specified legal services for persons he determines a r e
not financially able to employ counsel until such time as contrary determination is
made by the court. Provides that if contrary determination is made, public defender
may not thereafter render services to such person except in proceeding to review
determination of that issue or in an unrelated proceeding.
Ch. 958 ( S B 211) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 583, repeals Sec. 583.5, C.C.P., re
     dismissal of actions.
  Revises, effective January 1, 1970, authority of court to dismiss action for w a n t
of prosecution whenever plaintiff has failed for two years after action is filed to
bring such action to trial to provide that procedure for such dismissal shall be
in accordance with rules adopted by Judicial Council.
   Deletes obsolete provisions relating to granting of extensions of time to bring
action to trial because presence of material witness could not be obtained because
of World W a r I I .
Ch. 959 ( S B 213) MOSCONE Amends See. 707, adds Sec. 720, Prob.C., re
    claims against estates: torts.
  Authorizes filing of specified tort claims against decedents' estates within one
year after accrual of cause of action where such claims are not otherwise filed
within time allowed. Specifies procedure and liability with respect to such claims.
Makes provisions of this act inapplicable to prescribed claims.
Ch. 960 ( S B 215) COLOGNE New act, re average daily attendance: kinder-
     garten.
   Limits effect of provisions of Chapter 93 of Statutes of 1969 re adjustment of
a.d.a. in kindergarten classes maintained for 180 minutes or more with a part-
time teacher.
Ch. 961 ( S B 221) A L Q U I S T Adds Art. 2.4 (commencing with Sec. 13220),
     Ch. 2, Div. 10, E d . C , re junior college credential requirements.
  Prescribes credential requirements for persons employed as instructors, super-
visors, administrators, librarians, counselors, or student personnel workers more
than half time in connection with junior college grades 13 and 14.
   Prescribes procedures for issuance of such credentials by Board of Governors of
the California Community Colleges, and specifies areas of employment for holders
of such credentials.
   Specifies grounds for denial of application for such credentials, and provides t h a t
such credentials shall remain valid, for employment by any junior college district,
until revoked or suspended by the Board of Governors of the California Commu-
nity Colleges in the manner prescribed by law. Specifies that no otherwise qualified
applicant shall be denied such a credential on grounds he is totally or partially
138                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

blind, nor shall any junior college district refuse to engage an instructor on such
grounds if he is able to carry out duties of the position sought.
   Preserves validity of credentials previously issued, and allows renewal thereof,
and allows issuance of existing types of credentials to specified persons.
   Provides for issuance of provisional credentials for persons not meeting specified
professional qualifications and for issuance of limited service credentials to per-
sons teaching 40 percent or less of normal assignment.
   Authorizes junior college governing boards to establish administrative and super-
visory positions not requiring certification relating to business, research, or com-
munity service functions.
   Provides that a credential or certification document may identify subject matter
area authorization and extent or type of service. Provides local governing board
may, by resolution, establish certain positions in classified service not requiring
certification if such positions relate to business, research, and community service
functions.
   Requires Board of Governors of California Community Colleges to establish
minimum standards and procedures for issuance of certificates of qualifications for
teachers of classes for adults.
Ch. 962 ( S B 247) GRTJNSKY Adds Sees. 14371.2, E d . C , and proposed Sec.
     14336, E d . C , re State Teachers' Retirement System.
   Establishes minimum retirement allowance for person who retired for service
under S T R S , was reinstated, and subsequently retired, such minimum amount
based upon percentage increases in retirement allowances related to date of first
retirement and a benefit based upon amount of service rendered during reinstate-
ment.
   Provides that allowances payable for time after July 1, 1967, be retroactively
adjusted to amounts which would have been paid or payable if this act had been
operative on that date.
   Incorporates provisions into recodification of State Teachers' Retirement Law
proposed by A B 1728, to be operative only upon enactment of A B 1728.
Ch. 963 ( S B 249) C A R R E L L New act, re environmental quality study: ap-
    propriation.
  Appropriates $50,000 for support of State Environmental Quality Study Council.
<3h. 964 ( S B 256) MOSCONE Adds Sec. 75060.2, Gov.C, re Judges' Re-
     tirement Law.
  Increases allowance of judges who retired for disability prior to January 1, 1948.
Ch. 965 ( S B 265) B U R G E N E R Adds Sec. 11580.9, I n s . C , re insurance.
  Prescribes provisions that may be contained in policies where two or more auto-
mobile liability insurance policies are applicable to same loss and one of such
policies affords coverage to named insured engaged in renting or leasing commercial
vehicles, as defined, or the leasing of any other motor vehicle for six months or
longer.
Ch. 966 ( S B 272) B R A D L E Y Amends Sec. 6508, Gov.C, re joint powers
     agreement.
  Permits governing board of agency having power to sue or be sued, created by
an agreement entered into after this amendment between parties which are cities,
counties or public districts, and permits existing boards created by such an agree-
ment, to be composed exclusively of officials elected to one or more of the governing
bodies of such parties, in any ratio provided in the agreement.
  Allows such governing body to delegate its functions to an advisory body or
administrative entity if annual budget of delegatee is subject to approval of
delegating governing body.
   Specifically allows members of governing body of joint powers agency to act in
such official capacity when joint powers agency enters into contracts, leases, or
other transactions with party to joint powers agreement of which he is a member
of the governing body.
 Ch. 967 ( S B 283) R O D D A Amends Sec. 5605, E d . C , re school finance.
   Revises formula for computation of tuition payments paid by elementary school
 districts to high school districts for attendance of 7th and 8th grades, to reflect
 receipt of certain federal funds and the levy of particular taxes for support of the
 elementary level.
                  I 9 6 9 KEGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                       139

Ch. 968 ( S B 294) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 5716, E d . C , re adult education.
  Authorizes classes for adults to be maintained in conjunction with day or evening
regional occupational centers, as well as with day or evening high schools, junior -
colleges, or adult schools.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 969 ( S B 310) W H E T M O R E Adds Sees. 16000.5 and 16100.5, B . & P . C . ;
     adds Sec. 37101.5, Gov.C, re cafe musicians: licenses, regulations.
  Prohibits cities, cities and counties, and counties from requiring regulatory li-
censes and imposing regulatory license fees with respect to cafe musicians, and
defines cafe musicians.
Gh. 970 (SB 334) T E A L E Adds Ch. 4 (commencing with Sec. 4 3 6 ) , Pt. 1,
     Div. 1, and Sec. 32127.2, H . & S.C., re health facility construction.
  Enacts California Health Facility Construction Loan Insurance Law to provide
public insurance of health facility construction loans obtained by described public
and private agencies. Kequires State Department of Public Health to administer
law. Sets forth requirements and procedures to govern loan insurance program,
including eligibility, applications, defaults, and termination of insurance, and
provides that no such insurance shall be provided until a statewide system of
health facility planning has been established, and approved through such system.
Permits eligibility, applications, defaults, and termination of insurance. Permits
department, for five years after effective date of law, to insure loans made during
period November 5, 1968 to effective date. Authorizes local hospital districts to
borrow money and execute necessary documents in that connection for purpose of
obtaining insurance under the law for health facility construction loans that they
obtain.
   Appropriates $94,754 for purposes of law during 1969-1970 fiscal year.
Ch. 971 ( S B 342) R O D D A Amends various sees., E d . C , re education.
  Requires inclusion in history, government, or similar courses with respect to the
United States and California in elementary and secondary schools of instruction
providing foundation for understanding role and contributions of the entrepreneur
and labor.
  Requires State Board of Education, when adopting elementary school textbooks
and teaching manuals for teaching civics and history of the United States and
California, and high school governing board when adopting such textbooks, t a
include portrayal of role and contributions of the entrepreneur and labor.
  Includes the role of the entrepreneur and labor in provisions containing proce-
dures for cessation of use of textbooks containing doctrine contrary to law or not
correctly portraying role and contribution of specified groups.
Ch. 972 ( S B 386) CUSANOVICH Amends Sees. 12454, 12756 and 16701,
     Ed.C, re penalties.
   Raises fines for violation of truancy laws by parents from $10 to l$25 for first
offense and from $10-$50 to $25-$250 for each subsequent offense.
   Increases maximum fine to $250 from $100, and deletes minimum fine of $10 for
person who willfully disturbs any public school or any public school meeting.
Ch. 973 ( S B 390) CUSANOVICH Adds Sees. 12415 and 12416, E d . C , re
     truancy.
  Requires the county superintendent of schools to submit reports on compliance of
the districts in county with the truancy laws to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction on forms prepared by superintendent.
  Requires district governing boards to adopt rules requiring district employees to
send information relating to district compliance with truancy laws to county super-
intendent.
Ch. 974 ( S B 392) T E A L E Amends Sec. 2396, B . & P . C , re physicians and
     surgeons.
  Permits any person holding a physician's and surgeon's certificate under the
jurisdiction of the Board of Osteopathic Examiners of the State of California and
a degree of Doctor of Medicine issued by a medical school located in this state a t
any time prior to September 30, 1962, and approved either by the Board of Osteo-
pathic Examiners of the State of California or the Board of Medical Examiners
of the State of California at the time of issuance of such degree, who applies a t
any time, rather than prior to J u n e 30, 1963, in writing to the Board of Medical
140                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Examiners for permission to utilize his degree of doctor of medicine to use the
term or suffix "M.D." if he advises both the Board of Medical Examiners and the
Board of Osteopathic Examiners that he has elected to use the term or suffix "M.D."
and not "D.O." Eliminates requirement that person making such election have been
a resident of this state on J a n u a r y 1, 1965, and that he advise both boards of his
election on or before December 31, 1965.
Ch. 9T5 ( S B 395) S T I E B N Adds Ch. 14 (commencing with Section 25990),-
     Div. 20, H. & S.O., re importation of animals.
   Prohibits importation into state of designated species of wild animals not nor-
mally domesticated in, nor native to, this state, except by permit issued by
Department of Public Health. Requires department to publish list of prohibited
wild animals and authorizes State Board of Public Health to promulgate regula-
tions governing entry, quarantine, and release from quarantine of such wild animals.
   Specifies required contents of application for permit and permit. Specifies dis-
position of copies of permit. Requires fee for issuance of permit, such fee to be set
by state department and deposited in General Fund.
   Requires person who so imports, transports into state, or receives, such wild
animals to notify Department of Public Health thereof.
   Provides for quarantine of out-of-state wild animal shipments or destruction of
such wild animals in specified circumstances.
   Specifies penalties for violation of provisions of act.
   Appropriates $28,947 from the General Fund to the state department to
augment Item 161 of Chapter 355, Statutes of 1969.
Ch. 976 ( S B 407) GRUNSKY New act, re rights-of-way.
  Authorizes the Director of P a r k s and Recreation to convey a specified right-of-
way in Santa Cruz County to Cabrillo College. Requires exchange of easements
between department and college.
Ch. 977 ( S B 413) S C H M I T Z Adds Sec. 8506, E d . C , re sex education.
   Prohibits governing board of school district from requiring that pupils attend
class where human reproductive organs and their functions and processes are
described, illustrated or discussed.
  Provides that if such classes are offered, parents or guardians shall be given
opportunity to request that their child or ward not attend such class, and prohibits
child from attending class if request that he not attend has been received by the
school. Requires that instructional material be made available to parent or guardian
before holding course which includes such class.
   Makes section inapplicable to description or illustration of human reproductive
organs which may appear in textbooks of prescribed courses.
   Makes specified violations of section grounds for revocation or suspension of
certification document.
Ch. 978 ( S B 415) C O L L I E R Amends Sees. 31641.95, 31653, Gov.C, re county
     employees' retirement.
  Provides that an employer may make certain prior service credit provisions in-
applicable to employees who are hired after a certain date.
  Provides that districts as well as counties maj elect to contribute for any member
who is reinstated after military absence, amounts equal to the contributions which
would have been made by the member and his employer to the reitrement system, if
he had not been absent.
Ch. 979 ( S B 426) MCCARTHY Adds Sec. 12582.5, W a t . C , re water develop-
     ment projects.
   Specifies that prescribed recreational uses must be given consideration in any
flood control or water conservation program in which the state participates pur-
suant to the State Water Resources Law of 1945. Requires designs for such uses to
be prepared in cooperation with Department of Water Resources.
Ch. 980 ( S B 437) P E T R I S Adds, amends, repeals various sees., R. & T.C., re
     Personal Income Tax Law.
  Adopts the same definition of an "educational institution" for both the provisions
relating to credits for dependents and the provisions relating to the amount of
support required to claim dependents under the Personal Income Tax Law.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          141

   Deletes various provisions which allow married taxpayers, in certain cases, to
file separate returns after filing a joint return. Changes 30 days to a month in the
penalty computation provision for failure to timely file an income tax return.
   Requires information returns for interest paid by banks, savings and loan
associations, credit unions, and similar financial institutions.
    Extends the statute of limitations for filing refund claims to correspond to t h a t
for assessment purposes where a taxpayer is required to report a change or correc-
tion by the Internal Revenue Service.
    Denies interest on credits made within 90 days after the return is filed and
extends the antidisclosure provisions of the Personal Income Tax Law to all
state employees and employees of subdivisions of the state.
    Permits Attorney General to inspect returns and reports required under Per-
sonal Income Tax Law when required in enforcement of public or charitable t r u s t
or adherence to charitable purposes for which any nonprofit corporation is formed.
    In effect immediately.
Ch. 981 ( S B 455) S H O R T Amends various sees., I n s . C , re insurance: li--
       censes.                                                                     x
  Revises provisions relating to termination of specified licenses of natural persons
working for insurance production agencies to provide for inactive license, instead of
termination, and for renewal and reactivation of inactive licenses.
   Requires $5 fee to be paid in advance to Insurance Commissioner for each request
and required statement for reactivation of inactive license.
Ch. 982 ( S B 459) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 2205, Civ.C, re common car-
    riers.
  Increases maximum statutory liability of common carrier for loss of or damage
to each box, bundle, or package and its 1 contents from $10 to $50, unless: higher
valuation is established as specified.
©h. 983 ( S B 460) M I L L S Amends, adds, various sees., B . & P.O., H . & S.C.,
     re cemeteries: endowment care funds.
  Requires cemetery authority submit to cemetery board in annual report state-
ments concerning certain transactions involving endowment care funds. Specifically
authorizes grand jury, court, district attorney, or Attorney General to inspect such
reports.
  Requires that expense of specified examination of endowment care funds of a
cemetery authority conducted by cemetery board which the board may require^
the cemetery authority to pay not to exceed $100, rather than $50, per day for each
examiner engaged in the examination whenever examination requires more t h a n
two days.
   Deletes provision imposing cost of examination of endowment care funds con-
ducted by cemetery board on request of lot owners or cemetery members on such
persons. Provides such examination must be requested by at least 10 rather t h a n 25
of said owners or members.
   Provides where such examination reveals endowment care funds improperly in-
vested, cemetery board shall order certain such investments reinvested within not
less than 30, rather than 180, days. Establishes procedures whereby board may
impose conservatorship over cemetery endowment care funds under specified circum-
stances.
   Requires $1, rather than $0.85, per square foot of grave sold be placed in en-
dowment care fund.
Ch. 984 (SB 472) RODDA Amends Sec. 13460, adds Sec. 13460.3, E d . C , re
     leaves of absence.
   Requires every certificated employee to agree to render a period of service in the
employ of the governing board of a school district, upon returning from a leave
of absence granted by the district, which is equal to twice the period of the leave.
Authorizes the governing board, where the employee is granted a leave of absence
of less than one year and has failed to furnish a suitable bond with respect to
rendering the agreed upon period of service following his return from the leave,
t o pay the employee's compensation for such leave during the first year of service
following his return.
   Requires amount of compensation for period of absence to be reduced, if em-
ployee renders service upon returning less than that agreed upon, by amount
which bears same proportion to total amount of such compensation as service which
142                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

was not rendered bears to service agreed t o be rendered; and makes comparable
provision for allocation of indemnity bond proceeds.
Oh. 985 ( S B 499) SCHMITZ New act, re County of Orange: park property.
 Authorizes County of Orange to exchange specified property with the Division of
Highways in the Department of Public Works subject to approval of the Re-
sources Agency.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 086 ( S B 504) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 19533.2, Gov.C, re state em-
     ployees' seniority.
   Provides that veteran, except those reinstated from military leave, shall in
the event of layoff receive seniority credit for recognized military service only if, in
the event that more than a year has passed since his discharge he had been attend-
ing- not more than five years' college or vocational school commencing within one
year of his discharge. Provides that such credit shall not exceed one year, rather
than five years as previously, if such veteran had no state service prior to entering
the military service.
Ch. 987 (SB 513) M A R L E R Amends Sees. 3950 and 4150, adds Sec. 4189
     and Ch. 10 (commencing with Sec. 4800), P t . 3, Div. 4, F . & G.C., re taking
     of mountain lions.
  Changes status of mountain lions from nonprotected mammal to game mammal.
Makes it unlawful to take mountain lions without first procuring a license tag
authorizing the taking of such mountain lions, but authorizes any property owner
or tenant, or his agent, to take mountain lions by any means except poison or
traps if the property is being damaged or destroyed or is in immediate danger
of being damaged or destroyed by such lions, and requires any such taking to be
reported to the Department of Fish and Game within 30 days. Prescribes pro-
cedure for use of mountain lion license tags. Requires department to make annual
report to the Legislature on the number of mountain lions taken per license year.
   Requirements for procuring license tags to be operative July 1, 1970.
Ph. 988 ( S B 516) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 1528, F . & G.C., re wildlife
     management areas.
  Declares that multiple recreational use of wildlife management areas is desirable
and that such use shall be encouraged, but that except for hunting and fishing
purposes, only minimum facilities to permit other forms of multiple recreational use
shall be provided. Authorizes collection of use privilege fees to defray costs asso-
ciated with such multiple use, provided that tours by organized youth and school
groups shall be excepted. Makes related technical changes.
Ch. 989 ( S B 519) GRUNSKY Adds Sec. 2144.5, B . & P.O., re medical c a r e :
    liability.
  Provides that no person licensed under the State Medical Practice Act, who in
good faith upon the request of another person so licensed renders emergency medical
care to a person for a medical complication arising from prior care by another
person so licensed, shall be liable for any civil damages as a result of any acts or
omissions by such licensed person in rendering such emergency care.
Ch. 990 ( S B 523) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 1168, P e n . C , re sentence and
     commitment: recall.
  Limits time to 120 days after the date of commitment within which court may
on its own motion recall a sentence and a commitment to the custody of the Director
of Corrections and resentence, and specifies that thereafter the court may recall
a sentence and commitment upon the recommendation of the director.
Ch. 991 ( S B 567) D A N I E L S O N Amends Sec. 20024.01, Gov.C, re Public
     Employees' Retirement System.
  Provides with respect to "final compensation" for purposes of determining retire-
ment allowances under P.E.R.S. that periods of service separated by a period of
retirement, in addition to breaks in service, may be aggregated to constitute a
period of 3 consecutive years if the periods of service are consecutive except for
such period of retirement or break in service.
   Incorporates additional changes by SB 907 to Sec. 20024.01, Gov.C, to be
operative only on enactment of SB 907.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         143'

Ch. 992 ( S B 5T0) CTISANOVICH Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, re-
    ' peals various sees., E d . C , re truancy.
  Reorganizes and revises law relating to truancy and the reporting of truancy.
Requires that truancy be reported to the attendance supervisor or superintendent
of school district. Revises provision permitting an habitual t r u a n t to be declared
an habitual truant for absence or tardiness on succeeding year, to require t h a t
pupil adjudged to be habitual truant or habitually insubordinate or disorderly by
the juvenile court be brought to the attention of the juvenile court again if the
pupil is truant in the same or a succeeding year or is habitually insubordinate or
disorderly. Permits county superintendent to request a petition in juvenile court
for habitual truant of compulsory continuation education programs.
  Repeals provision permitting court to assign pupil who is found truant or dis-
orderly to parental school.
Oh. 993 ( S B 579) H A R M B R Adds Sec. 24205, E d . C , adds Sec. 10203.1,
    amends Sec. 10203.4, I n s . C , re California State Colleges.
  Authorizes state college trustees to enter into contracts of group life insurance
and group disability insurance with respect to any class, or all, of their employees.
Establishes conditions for such policies.
Ch. 994 ( S B 590) WAY Amends Sec. 14103.6, adds Sec. 14123, W . & I.C., re
     medical assistance.
  Specifies that the director may suspend or temporarily suspend prior to hearing
a provider of service from further participation under the medical assistance
program for violation of the provisions of Medi-Cal or rule or regulation promul-
gated thereunder, provides the procedure therefor, and requires the director to
send notice of the suspension to the provider's state licensing, certifying or registr-
ing authority.
  Authorizes a carrier acting under regulations adopted by the director to require
prior authorization for services when director or carrier determines that the pro-
vider has been rendering unnecessary services.
Ch. 995 (SB 592) C A R R E L L New act, re school health services.
  Requires State Department of Public Health, in cooperation with the State
Department of Education, to conduct specified study of public school health services
and to report its findings and recommendations to the Legislature no later t h a n the
5th legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session of the Legislature. Requires State
Department of Education and school districts to cooperate with the State Depart-
ment of PublicHealth in the carrying out of the study.
   Operative only if federal funds are received for the conduct of such study.
Ch. 996 ( S B 608) H A R M E R Adds Sec. 24053.7, E d . C , re state colleges:
     expenditures.
   Provides that, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the chief admin-
istrative officer of a state college campus shall be responsible for the propriety of
the expenditure, and the integrity of the financial reporting, of specified funds
received by the college and for the propriety of expenditures, and the integrity of
the financial reporting, made by auxiliary organizations.
   Defines chief administrative officer for this purpose.
Ch. 997 (AB 3) B E L O T T I Amends Sec. 15517, E d . C , re school buildings.
  Extends from July 1, 1969, -to July 1, 1970, effect of provisions authorizing an
increase of not to exceed 10 cents in the maximum rate of school district taxes
to permit districts to take corrective measures for fire and panic safety in school
buildings.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 998 (AB 1477) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 11453 and adds Sec. 11017,
     W. & I . C , re public assistance.
   Provides that in computing aid grants under federally supported aid programs,
the amounts used shall be based on the nearest dollar. Provides for similar changes
in computing cost-of-living adjustments for such grants.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 999 ( S B 633) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 7100, H . & S . C , re disposition
     of remains.
   Limits mode of expression by person directing, prior to his death, the prepara-
tion for, type and place of interment of his remains, to written instructions.
144                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1000 ( S B 642) M A R L E R New act, re state property.
  Authorizes California Disaster Office to dispose of specified property.
Ch. 1001 ( S B 645) K E N N I C K Amends Sec. 509, W. & I.C., re juvenile de-
    tention facilities.
  Provides that prescribed annual inspection by judge and Department of the Youth
Authority shall be conducted with respect to jails, juvenile halls, or lockups which
were used for specified confinement of persons known to be under 18 years of age,
rather than with respect to such facilities which were used for such confinement
without regard to whether use occurred knowingly.
Ch. 1002 ( S B 650) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 12001, P e n . C , re      firearms:
     regulation.
  Specifically includes frame or receiver of pistol, revolver, and firearm capable of
being concealed upon the person within definition of pistol, revolver and such fire-
arm for specified regulatory purposes.
Ch. 1003 ( S B 651) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 12200, P e n . C , re machine-
     gun regulation.
  Provides, with respect to state regulation of possession and transfer of machine-
guns, that the definition of "machinegun" also includes any combination of parts
designed and intended for use in coverting a weapon into a machinegun.
Ch. 1004 ( S B 654) D I L L S Amends and adds various sees., P.U.C., re dump
     truck carriers.
  Defines dump truck carriers and includes them within provisions of Highway
Carriers' Act. Provides for permits to be issued by Public Utilities Commission upon
application. Specifies what application must show. Sets forth various residence
requirements for applicants. Makes permits transferable only with the commission's
approval, and provides that any permit not used for a period of one year shall
lapse.
  Allows any such carrier in business on the effective date of this act who applies
before January 1, 1970, to receive a permit without further proceedings.
   Incorporates provisions of Senate Bill 447 (Ch. 173, Stats. 1969) re bonds of
highway carriers.
Ch. 1005 ( S B 660) S H E R M A N Repeals Sec. 1722, H. & S.C., re cancer.
  Deletes provision limiting effective period of provisions relating to cancer research
and treatment.
  Appropriates $26,761 to Department of Public Health for expenditure under such
provisions.
Ch. 1006 ( S B 662) G R U N S K Y Repeals Sec. 4, Ch. 1711, 1967 Stats., Sec.
     425, R. & T.C., re valuation of open-space land.
   Removes termination date and nonapplicability of Sec. 15606, Gov.C, on Art.
1.5, Ch. 3, Pt. 1, Div. 1, R. & T.C., relating to valuation of open-space land.
Ch. 1007 ( S B 666) K E N N I C K Adds Sees. 20042, 31840.2, 45310.5, Gov.C, re
     public retirement systems.
  Provides that provisions of Public Employees' Retirement Law and County Em-
ployees' Retirement Law of 1937 extending rights to a member or subjecting him
to any limitation by reason of change of membership from one system to the other,
shall apply in like manner and conditions to change in membership from a retire-
ment system established in a city pursuant to specified provisions. Provides similar
provision for reciprocal membership benefits in such city retirement systems.
Ch. 1008 ( S B 669) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 631, adds Sec. 631.1, W. &
     I . C , re custody of minors.
  Excepts cases in which minor willfully misrepresents himself as 18 or more years
of age from requirement that minor be released from custody within specified time,
unless designated events occur, whenever minor under 18 years of age is taken into
custody by peace officer or probation officer. Requires filing of petition or criminal
complaint within 48 hours of time true age of minor is determined, excluding non-
judicial days, in cases where such misrepresentation effects a material delay in in-
vestigation which prevents filing of petition or complaint within 48 hours of taking
minor into custody. Requires immediate release of minor if petition or complaint is
not filed within 48 hours of time true age of minor is determined.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         145

Ch. 1009 ( S B 672) A L Q U I S T Adds Sec. 11483, E d . C , re junior college at-
     tendance.
   Makes applicable specified provisions for purposes of computing average daily
attendance of junior college pupils in work experience education programs.
Oh. 1010 ( S B 678) S H O E T Amends Sec. 4504, P e n . C , re offenses of prisoners.
  Provides that, for purpose of provisions of law relating to offenses by prisoners,
person is confined in "state prison" if he is confined in prison or institution under
jurisdiction of Department of Corrections by order made pursuant to law, including
commitments to Department of Corrections or Department of the Youth Authority,
regardless of purpose of such confinement or validity of order directing confine-
ment, until judgment of court setting aside such order becomes final.
Ch. 1011 ( S B 680) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 515, W. & I.C., re juve-
     nile fugitives.
  Provides that Arnold-Kennick Juvenile Court Law does not apply to person who
violates any law of another state defining crime and is at time of such violation
under 18 years of age, if such person thereafter flees from that state into California.
Authorizes proceedings against any such person in manner provided in specified
provisions of Penal Code relating to proceedings against fugitives from justice.
Requires magistrate, for purposes of detention, to detain such person in juvenile
hall if space is available, but authorizes magistrate to detain such person in
county jail if no space is available in juvenile hall.
  To be operative until 61st day after 1970 Regular Session.
Ch. 1012 ( S B 681) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 12027, P e n . C , re concealed weap-
     ons : peace officers.
   Includes specifically among those peace officers, whether active or honorably re-
tired, excepted from application of prohibitions against carrying concealed firearms
under The Dangerous Weapons' Control Law, the Deputy Director and Assistant
Director of the Department of Justice, the Chief, Assistant Chief, and special
agents of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, the Chief, Assist-
ant Chief, and narcotics agents of the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement, and such
investigators so designated by the Attorney General.
Ch. 1013 ( S B 688) D O L W I G Adds Sees. 13073, 13074, Gov.C, re rendering of
     demographic services.
  Permits Department of Finance to render certain demographic services to any
political subdivision or the federal government upon terms satisfactory to the di-
rector provided that the state shall be reimbursed for all costs incurred.
  Provides that revised county population estimates made by the Department of
Finance, other than the first revision, shall not change amount of state money
given to local agencies or owed to or paid to the state by local agencies.
Ch. 1014 ( S B 704) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 6401, P . R . C , re state lands.
   Authorizes State Lands Commission, where not inconsistent with terms and con-
ditions of federal law re school lands granted to the state, to modify rights of state,
other than by relinquishing mineral rights in lands owned or reserved to the state,
to the use of the surface of lands, including rights to enter such lands to depth of
500 feet, sold or exchanged by the state wherein mineral rights are reserved to the
state, as will permit the orderly use and development of all of such lands, upon a
finding that such lands contain no known deposits of commercially valuable min-
erals in and above a plane located 500 feet below the surface.
Ch. 1015 ( S B 716) S C H M I T Z Adds Sec. 13520.2, E d . C , re certificated em-
     ployees : salary schedules.
   Provides that, whenever a salary schedule increasing salaries of certificated em-
ployees is adopted by a school district to be effective a t the commencement of the
second semester of a school year, such employees' compensation for services during
the first semester shall not exceed one-half the annual compensation for their posi-
tions under the former schedule and such employees' compensation for services
during the second semester shall not be less than one-half the annual compensation
for their positions under the new schedule.
Ch. 1016 ( S B 719) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sees. 13291, 13293, Gov.C, re-state
    agency financial reports.
  Makes technical nonsubstantive changes to conform to existing law.
146                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1017 ( S B T21) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 5474.30, H. & S.O., re food crop
     labor sanitation.
  Requires any agency enforcing provisions on food crop growing and harvesting
sanitation to report violators to all offices of Division of F a r m Labor Service, De-
partment of Employment located in the county where the violation occurs and
prohibits the division from referring persons for employment to such violators until
reporting agency certifies correction of violation.
Ch. 1018 ( S B 723) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 23756, E d . C , re state college
    tuition.
  Defines "resident student," for purposes of state college tuition, to include minor
who has lived continuously in the state for more than 10 years rather than a minor
who has been a bona fide resident of the state for more than 10 years.
Ch. 1019 ( S B 739) COOMBS Amends Sec. 15457, E d . C , re school building
    plans.
  Provides that fee for Department of General Services approval of school building
plans shall not be in excess of one-half of 1 percent of estimated cost, rather than
providing a schedule for determining the fee.
Ch. 1020 ( S B 754) WAY Adds Sees. 402.5, 1613, 1815.4, R. & T.C., re prop-
     erty taxation.
   Specifies when property shall be deemed "comparable"' to property being assessed
for property tax purposes when property is being valued by a comparison with
sales of other properties and requires the State Board of Equalization, county
boards of equalization, and county assessment appeals boards to follow such pro-
visions when valuing property.
Ch. 1021 ( S B 758) M A R L E R Amends Sees. 7326 and 8101, W. & I.C., re
     mental patients.
   Provides that it is misdemeanor to willfully assist any judicially committed or
remanded, rather than committed only, patient of state hospital to escape, attempt
to escape, or resist being returned from leave of absence.
   Provides that it is crime to knowingly supply, sell, give, or allow possession or
control of firearm to any mental patient in, or on leave of absence from, any
public or private hospital, rather than any hospital only.
Ch. 1022 ( S B 759) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 20021.5, E d . C , re junior college
    construction.
  Corrects citation to federal law without substantive change.
Ch. 1023 ( S B 769) D E U K M E J T A N Amends Sec. 1768, W. & I.C., re Youth
    Authority.
  Authorizes director of Youth Authority to provide useful work projects for per-
sons committed to the authority and pay wages for such works from any money
made available to the director for this purpose.
Ch. 1024 ( S B 777) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 11011, Gov.C, re state
     property.
   Authorizes the Department of General Services, with the approval of the State
Public Works Board, to dispose of specified parcels of property upon giving of
public notice and to transfer certain property to the Department of Public Works.
   Requires revenue from any property transferred to Department of General Serv-
ices as surplus be paid into General Fund and provides necessary expenditures
relating to such property be paid to Department of General Services and makes
such requirement contingent upon enactment of AB 993 of the 1969 Regular Session.
Ch. 1025 ( S B 798) C O L L I E R Amends Sees. 1166, 1178, 1194, 1197, S. & H . C ,
      re county road divisions.
   Provides that the board of supervisors shall decide on formation on a county
road division after the hearing. Authorizes the board to change boundaries only
if it decides to form the division.
   Requires board of supervisors to collect tax for the county road division from
property in county road division, if special taxes are approved by voters of divi-
sion, sufficient to reimburse the county for expenses of organizing a division, con-
ducting any necessary election, and providing engineering services in a county road
division, in addition to raising the amount voted for the current fiscal year and to
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         147

meet estimated costs of maintenance. Provides that if division is not formed and
tax lev,\ authorized, the expenses of providing engineering services, in addition to
expenses of organizing the division and conducting necessary election, are a county
charge.
   Provides that a county road division ceases to exist if taxes or bonds for pro-
posed work or maintenance are not approved by voters within 2 years after forma-
tion, rather than that a division ceases after 2 successive election defeats of tax
or bond issues unless it has maintenance purposes.
Ch. 1026 ( S B 807) S T I E R N Adds article heading immediately preceding Sec.
     185, Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 200), Ch. 1.5. Div. 2, and Art. 1.5 (com-
     mencing with Sec. 1010), Ch. 3, Div. 4, E d . C , re junior colleges.
  Specifies powers and duties of Board of Governors of California Community
Colleges and governing boards of junior college districts and districts maintaining
junior colleges.
Ch. 1027 ( S B 815) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 15, San Gorgonio P a s s W a t e r
     Agency Law (Ch. 1435, Stats. 1961), re power of eminent domain.
  Permits agency to condemn property situated outside the agency upon consent of
the board of supervisors of the county in which such property is located.
Ch. 1028 ( S B 817) COLOGNE Adds Sec. 4140.5, B . & P.O., re pharmacy.
  Provides for licensing of certain nonresident distributors of hypodermic needles or
syringes doing business in this state.
Ch. 1029 ( S B 829) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 53205.1, Gov.C, adds new act, re
     group insurance.
  Authorizes local public agencies to provide group health and accident insurance for
dependents of its officers and employees who are full-time students or incapacitated.
   Validates establishment of pension trust and investment by housing authority
prior to June 1, 1969, of the assets of a pension trust in the bonds and debentures
of private and public corporations.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1030 ( S B 834) D O L W I G Adds Sec. 11005.3, Gov.C, re state agencies.
  Permits any state department, board or commission to lease real property for up
to one year subject to approval of Department of General Services and provided
such leases do not exceed a total rental of one thousand dollars ($1,000).
Ch. 1031 ( S B 841) COLOGNE New act, re executive reorganization.
   States expiration date of New Car Dealers Policy and Appeals Board is the 91st
day after final adjournment of the 1971 Regular Session of the Legislature and
that neither the New Car Board nor the Cannery Inspection Board will be affected
by Reorganization Plan No. 1.
   Requires Legislative Counsel to omit reference to New Car Dealers Board or
Cannery Inspection Board in bill required to reflect changes made by Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 1 of 1969.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1032 ( S B 846) G R U N S K Y Amends Sec. 3, Ch. 1797, Stats. 1963, re Penal
       Code revision.
    Requires advisory board appointed by Joint Legislative Investigating Committee
for Revision of Penal Code to review all proposed tentative drafts prepared by com-
mittee staff and make whatever recommendations it considers appropriate. Provides
t h a t whenever advisory board or any member thereof does not concur with pro-
posals of staff, that fact shall be stated in all tentative drafts or reports submitted
to committee by staff, together with whatever statement or comment any member of
the board wishes to submit.
    Deletes project director for committee as required member of advisory board, and
instead requires appointment to advisory board of a chairman who shall preside a t
all meetings. Requires appointment of a peace officer and a public defender t o ad-
visory board.
    Authorizes compensation as fixed by committee for members of advisory board,
rather than providing that members of advisory board or boards, other t h a n
project director, shall receive no compensation. Requires, rather than authorizes, re-
imbursement of members of advisory board for actual necessary expenses incurred in
performance of duties.
    In effect immediately.
148                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1033 ( S B 853) S H O R T Amends Sec. 35752, repeals and adds Art. 2 (com-
     mencing with Sec. 21400), Ch. 2, Div. 11, Veh.C, re traffic control devices.
   Deletes provisions specifically establishing standard specifications for stop signs,
yield right-of-way signs, speed signs, railroad warning approach signs, and signs
which designate maximum weight for a bridge or other structure, with respect to
color, shape, and size, and requires the Department of Public Works, after consulta-
tion with local agencies, to adopt rules and regulations prescribing uniform stand-
ards and specifications for all official traffic control devices.
   Prohibits placing upon a street or highway of any official traffic control device
that does not conform to standards and specifications established by the department.
   Eliminates provision requiring that department publicize standards and specifica-
tions for specified type of warning signs, lights, and devices.
Ch. 1034 ( S B 867) MOSCONE Amends Sees. 2019, 1987, C.C.P., re civil liti-
     gation : subpoenas.
  Permits notice, in lieu of subpoena duces tecum, to be used in specified cases to
compel production of books, documents, or other things in civil action or proceeding
by party to action or person immediately benefited thereby or by specified agents of
such party or person.
  Provides t h a t party or person so notified to produce such books, documents or
other things may file written objection to the requested production or any part
thereof. Permits court to order production of items to which objection was made,
unless the objecting party or person establishes good cause for nonproduction or
production under limitations or conditions.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 1987, C.C.P., proposed by A.B. 680, to be
operative only upon enactment of A.B. 680.
Ch. 1035 ( S B 878) C O L L I E R Amends Sec. 143.1, S. & H.C., re highway con-
     struction funds: expenditures.
  Authorizes Department of Public Works, for projects under construction which
will not be completed within the current fiscal year, to obligate and make available
funds, on and after January 1 preceding the forthcoming fiscal year, for expendi»
tures on such projects during the current fiscal year.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 143.1, S. & H.C., proposed by AB 2024, to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 2024.
Ch. 1036 ( S B 884) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 14257, repeals and adds Art. 3 (com-
     mencing with Sec. 14290), Ch. 3, P t . 5, Div. 3, Title 2, Gov.C, re State
     Contract Act.
   Permits the department to exempt projects estimated to cost less than $10,000
from the requirements of the State Contract Act, if it solicits bids in writing and
awards work to lowest bidder. Revises provisions relating to advertisement for bids
to provide all bids be advertised in specified manner for all projects estimated to
cost $10,000 or more rather than providing one manner of public notice for bids over
$15,000 estimated cost and a different manner for projects of lesser estimated cost.
Ch. 1037 ( S B 890) C O L L I E R Amends Sec. 188.3, S. & H.C., re state highway
    landscaping.
  Increases amount which may be spent annually for maintenance of landscaping
and functional planting from $10,000,000 to $12,500,000.
Ch. 1038 ( S B 893) C O L L I E R Adds Sees. 12727.1, 12727.2, and 12727.3,
     W a t . C , re flood control.
   Adopts and authorizes project for flood control on Sonoma Creek in Sonoma
County in accordance with congressional action a t such estimated cost as may be
appropriated for cooperation by the Legislature upon recommendation by the De-
partment of Water Resources. Specifies that this authorization shall not be deemed
to confer preference on this project over needs of other statewide programs in ap-
propriations of available funds.
   Requires the Sonoma County Flood Control and Water Conservation District to
give assurances to the Secretary of Army of local cooperation and to execute plans
for project in cooperation with the Department of the Army.
Ch. 1039 ( S B 917) SONG Amends Sec. 9516, B . & P.C., re drycleaning.
  Limits exemption of hotels and resident clubs from regulation as dryeleaners to
those hotels or resident clubs whose services in the nature of drycleaning involve
only spotting, sponging or pressing for their guests or employees only.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          149

Oh. 1040 ( S B 919) BTJRGENER Adds Art. 6 (commencing with Sec. 485), Ch.
     3, Div. 2, and repeals Art. 4 (commencing with Sec. 981), Ch. 2, Div. 4, E d . C ,
     re school governance workshops.
  Authorizes statewide association composed exclusively of school district governing
boards or county boards of education, or both, and Department of Education to con-
duct annual workshops in the state to include specified subjects. Authorizes rea-
sonable fee not to exceed estimated pro rata cost. Requires permanent record of
each school district and county board of education members who successfully com-
plete workshop and requires issuance of certificate of completion. Authorizes reim-
bursement for expenses for member or member-elect of school district or county
board of education member who successfully completes course.
Ch. 1041 ( S B 924) B U R G E N E R Amends Sec. 11006, W . & I.C., re public
     assistance.
   Provides that, except as to life care contracts, Director of Social Welfare shall
adopt regulations which establish criteria for evaluation of allowances provided to
applicants or recipients who reside in facility operated by organization providing
any or all of their basic needs or reside in living arrangement paid for and con-
trolled by an organization.
Ch. 1042 (SB 941) MOSCONE Amends Sees. 16000 and 16080, Gov.C, re en-
     vironmental quality control.
  Enlarges functions of State Environmental Study Council to conduct study into
noise emission control problems. Directs council to appoint a scientific advisory
group to report on the state of the art of noise control. Requires council to acquire
available federal technical information.
Ch. 1043 ( S B 947) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 12004, F . & G.C., re fish
    and game.
  Increases fine and imprisonment applicable to anyone who deposits in, permits
to pass into, or places where it can pass into, the waters of the state any of certain
substances or materials, as specified.
Ch. 1044 (SB 950) S H O R T Adds Sec. 6301.7, P.R.C., re state-owned sub-
    merged lands.
  Authorizes State Lands Commission to negotiate with, and with the approval of
the Governor, to enter into agreements with the United States, or its officers,
agencies, licensee, permittee or lessee, concerning the effect of any fill, dredging, or
construction operations, or other activities on or adjacent to tide and submerged
lands within the County of Ventura upon the boundary between state-owned sub-
merged lands and outer continental shelf lands under the jurisdiction of the United
States, or concerning the location of such boundary. Provides that such agreements
may, without limiting scope of agreements, waive on behalf of state any increases
in submerged lands resulting from such activities which would otherwise inure to
the state. Requires finding of public interest prior to entering into such agreements.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1045 ( S B 951) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 13953, Veh.C., re motor vehicles.
  Prohibits Department of Motor Vehicles' order of suspension or revocation of
privilege of person to operate motor vehicle or order imposing terms or conditions of
probation relative to safe operation of such vehicle in specified situations from
becoming effective until 30 days, rather than 10 days, after the giving of written
notice to person affected, with specified exception.
Ch. 1046 ( S B 958) M I L L S New act, re park and recreation assessments.
   Provides that when certain property is located outside of the boundaries of the
irrigation district owning the same and it is leased to the state for park and recrea-
tion purposes, such property shall be assessed as open-space lands and its full cash
value shall be determined by dividing the amount paid by the state under the lease-
by .07; declares provisions not applicable to more than 2 percent of the total assessed
value of property within a county.
   Operative on and after the lien date in 1970.
Ch. 1047 ( S B 983) P E T R I S Amends Sec. 20800, E d . C , re school district taxes.
  Adds continuation education to provisions presently authorizing maximum school
district tax rate increase of $0.05 per $100 of assessed valuation in elementary
or high school districts and $0.10 per $100 of assessed valuation in unified school
districts for support of opportunity schools.
150                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1048 ( S B 984) D O L W I G Amends See. 20111, H . & S.C., re police pro-
    tection districts: tax.
  Increases from one-half, to three-fourths, of one percent of the assessed value of
the taxable property in police protection district the maximum amount of money
which may be raised by annual tax to support police department of such district.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1049 ( S B 988) R I C H A R D S O N Amends Sec. 980, M. & V.C., re veterans.
   Deletes requirement of service in a campaign or expedition for which a medal
has been authorized by the government of the United States, from the definition of
veteran as a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service of the
United States for a period of not less than 90 consecutive days or was discharged
from the service due to a service-connected disability within such period, any por-
tion of which was on or after August 5, 1964, and prior to a future date to be
established by the Legislature.
Ch. 1050 ( S B 1001) S H E R M A N Amends, adds various sees., B. & P.O., re
     real estate licenses.
   Revises provisions relating to inactivating of and reinstating or renewing license
of real estate broker or salesman.
   Requires that application'for renewal of a license be made a t least 30 days prior
to termination of right to renew.
   Increases fee for an active or renewal real estate restricted broker license, for an
active or renewal real estate broker license, and for an active or renewal real estate
salesman license.
   Establishes fee of $4 for inactivating a real estate broker or salesman license, and
a fee of one-half of the fee for active license of same class for inactive original or
renewal license.
   Revises fee for reinstatement of a license within a license period.
   To become operative July 1, 1970.
Ch. 1051 ( S B 1010) S H O R T Adds Sec. 820.7, S. & H.C., re fringe parking
     facilities.
  Authorizes Department of Public Works to participate in fringe parking facility
demonstration projects provided for by Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1968 under
certain conditions.
Ch. 1052 ( S B 1013) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 101.5, S. & H.C., adds
     Div. 7 (commencing with Sec. 8600), P.R.C., re recreation.
  Establishes Resources Protection Account in the General Fund to be used for
resources affected by state highways and for facilities along state highways.
  Requires Department of Public Works to determine value of certain property it
acquires and to deposit such amount in the Resources Protection Account.
  Appropriates $100,000 out of Resources Protection Account for 1969-1970 fiscal
year to be allocated by Director of Finance as recommended by Secretary for Re-
sources.
Ch. 1053 ( S B 1105) B R A D L E Y Adds Sec. 1002.6, E d . C , re district governing
     boards.
   Provides that school district governing boards shall act by majority vote of all
of the members of the board.
Ch. 1054 (AB 455) P O R T E R Adds Sec. 104.15, S. & H.C., re state highway
     lands.
   Authorizes Department of Public Works to lease to a local agency for park pur-
poses the remaining portion of land, not to exceed 200 feet from the closest
boundary of the state highway or public work, where the department pursuant to
specified authority acquires a whole parcel of land, only a p a r t of which is needed
for state highway purposes, when such use will protect the highway and preserve
its view, appearance, light and air, and usefulness. Requires such lease to be made
in accordance with procedures, terms and conditions prescribed by the California
Highway Commission, including specified terms and conditions.
Ch. 1055 (AB S70) Z E N O V I C H Amends Sec. 1090, adds Sec. 1070.6, I n s . C ,
     re insurance: withdrawal.
  Exempts from provisions relating to withdrawal procedure of insurers, and fees
required therefor, nonsurviving admitted constituent to a merger or consolidation
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          151

into another admitted insurer done in accordance with applicable law and with
prior written consent of Insurance Commissioner, if commissioner finds t h a t specified
criteria have been met. Exempts from such provisions insurer which has been
liquidated by final order of court of record of any state if certified copy of such
order has been filed with commissioner.
   Exempts from prohibition against insolvent insurer retiring from business from
reinsuring its business, an insolvent insurer retiring from business by merger or
consolidation into admitted insurer with prior written consent of commissioner.
Oh. 1056 ( A B 1000) D E N T Amends Sees. 40503, 40505, 40517, adds Art. 3
     (commencing with Sec. 40600), Ch. 2, Div. 17, Veh.C, re traffic accidents:
     violation notices.
  Authorizes peace officer, in cases involving traffic accidents, to issue and deliver
a written notice of violation to any person who he has reasonable cause to believe
has committed a violation of the Vehicle Code not declared to be a felony or a
violation of local vehicle ordinance.
  Prescribes contents of notices of violations, places for appearance, procedures for
pleading thereto, and procedures for failure to appear.
  Prohibits issuance of .any w a r r a n t upon a written notice of violation and pro-
vides for release on promise to appear.
  Makes related and conforming changes.
Ch. 1057 ( A B 1061) VEYSEY Adds P t . 11 (commencing with Sec. 5501),
     Div. 1, R. & T.C., re taxation of livestock.
  Imposes a tax of 5 mills on certain bovine animals and 0.55 of 1 mill on sheep for
each day such animals are within this state, commencing July 1, 1970, and
specifies tibat this tax shall be in lieu of the property tax. Provides for the ad-
ministration of the tax by county officials pursuant to rules and regulations adopted
by the State Board of Equalization.
  Allocates the revenue derived from the tax to counties, cities and school districts,
except junior college districts, on a percentage basis and on the basis of the
number of days livestock are within each such jurisdiction. Computes the allo-
cations to school districts and cities without regard to the 1 5 % exemption for
business inventories.
Ch. 1058 (AB 1082) C A M P B E L L Adds Sec. 13582.1, E d . C , re classified school
    employees.
  Requires governing board of school district to increase salary of classified em-
ployees for the period he is required to work out of classification, if the period
exceeds 5 days within 15 calendar days.
  Authorizes personnel commission and governing board, or governing board in
nonmerit system district, to pay classified employee increased salary for period
he is working out of classification, even though such period is 5 days or less within
a 15-calendar-day period.
Ch. 1059 (AB 1087) FONG Amends Sec. 388, H . & S.C., re nursing educa-
    tion scholarships.
  Changes the period of scholarships, relating to nursing education, awarded to
persons qualifying under specified provisions from 10 months to 12 months.
Ch. 1060 (AB 1093) P R I O L O New act, re consolidated election: constitu-
    tional amendments.
  Provides for submission to the voters at 1970 primary election of Assembly
Constitutional Amendments Nos. 28, 29, 30, and 31.
  In effect immediately.
 Ch. 1061 ( A B 1113) D E D D E H Amends Sec. 21373, Veh.C, re schools: traffle
     control devices.
   Revises provision allocating costs of engineering and traffic surveys to determine
 the need for traffic control devices near schools, by deleting requirement t h a t they
 be borne equally by the requesting school district and the city, county, city and
 county, or state agency involved, and by providing t h a t the city, county, city and
 county, or state agency involved may require the requesting school district to pay
 an amount not to exceed 50 percent of the costs of such survey.
152                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1062 ( A B 1137) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 11661, I n s . C , re workmen's
     compensation.
  Provides insurer may insure against expense of defending suit for serious a n *
willful misconduct by employer or his agent.
Ch. 1063 (AB 1144) Z ' B E E G Adds Sec. 1420.5, L a b . C , re human relation»
    commissions.
  Requires Division of F a i r Employment Practices to maintain liaison with
human relations commissions of cities, counties, and city and county, and to
provide any nonconfidential information to such commissions on request.
Ch. 1064 ( A B 1147) B U R K E Amends Sec. 2501, Veh.C, re California High-
     way Patrol Commissioner.
  Excepts licenses of motor vehicle lamp and brake adjusters and of motor vehicle
pollution control device installers from the provision requiring all licenses issued
by the Commissioner of the California Highway Patrol to expire in one year,,
and requires the commissioner to establish by regulation the terms of such ad-
justers' and installers' license's of not less than one nor more than four years.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1065 (AB 1219) S T U L L New act, re Poway W a t e r Storage Project.
  Authorizes Department of Water Resources to grant under the Davis-Grunsky
Act to the Poway Municipal Water District an amount not to exceed $539,800
for recreation and $320,200 for fish and wildlife enhancement, in connection with
the construction of the Poway Water Storage Project.
Ch. 1066 ( A B 1221) R U S S E L L Amends Sec. 1748, I n s . C , re insurance".
  Provides money penalty in lieu of suspension of license or other action against
insurer found for first time by commissioner to have violated insurance law shall
not exceed 20 percent of gross commissions, rather than l i percent of gross pre-
miums, or any unlawfully received and retained amount such as a rebate.
  Provides commissioner in selecting such penalty from one of specified types shall
not be limited to one which results in least amount.
 Ch. 1067 (AB 1239) B I L L G R E E N E Adds Sec. 53703, Gov.C, re federal pro-
      grams.
   Authorizes counties and cities to contract and cooperate with federal, state and
 local agencies and private entities in federal housing programs and other federal
 programs, and to do all acts necessary to participate therein.
    Authorizes counties and cities to expend their funds as required in connection
 with said programs.
    Provides that a county or city may provide necessary services to any housing
 authority with regard to which the governing body of the county or city has made
 a declaration of necessity pursuant to Article 2, Chapter 1, P a r t 2, Division 24 of
 the Health and Safety Code.
    Provides that section is not to be construed as compliance with federal program
 requiring specific enabling legislation or to supersede such legislation.
 Ch. 1068 (AB 1240) B I L L G R E E N E Amends Sees. 9103, 9104, 9500, the
      heading of Ch. 2 (commencing with Sec. 9500)*, P t . 1, Div. 3, and adds Art. 4
      (commencing with Sec. 9800) to Ch. 2, P t . 1, Div. 3, U . I . C , re job training
      and placement.
   Changes name of Division of Job Training and Development to Division of Job
 Training, Development and Placement.
   Creates, in the Division of Job Training, Development and Placement, the Office
 of Manpower Utilization to plan for and create entry level jobs for the economically
 disadvantaged in state and local government.
    Specifies functions, purposes, and duties of the Office of Manpower Utilization
 and requires specified cooperation on the part of the Personnel Board and other
 agencies.
 Ch. 1069 (AB 1245) B A R N E S Adds Sec. 13901.1 and 14115, E d . C , re State
      Teachers' Retirement Fund.
   Authorizes State Teachers' Retirement Fund to receive funds from school districts
 on behalf of employees for employers for the employer's contribution when such
 contributions are financed by the federal government or through a service agreement
 for professional services.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        153

  Specifically authorizes districts to make such contributions and requires board to
increase rate of employer contribution to offset increase in General Fund obligations
as result of programs involving federal government or service agreement.*
  Incorporates additional changes proposed by AB 1728, to be operative only upon
enactment of AB 1728.
Oh. 1070 ( A B 1308) S T U L L New act, re Dixon Reservoir Project.
  Authorizes Department of Water Resources to grant under the Davis-Grunsky
Act to the City of Escondido an amount not to exceed $525,800 for recreation and
$331,800 for fish and wildlife enchancement, in connection with the construction of
the Dixon Dam and Reservoir Project.
Ch. 1071 (AB 1312) VEYSEY Adds Sec. 15802.5, E d . C , re school fire insur-
     ance.
  Provides that for 1969-1970 fiscal year only, upon approval of Superintendent of
Public Instruction, deductible amount of fire insurance for any school district with
an average daily attendance of less than 50,000 may exceed $1,000 for each oc-
currence.
Ch. 1072 (AB 1327) KNOX Amends Sees. 13510, 13512, 13520, 13522, and
      13523, adds Sec. 13507, P e n . C , re peace officers.
   Authorizes Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training to carry out
specified functions and programs and allocate money therefor, with respect to peace
officer members of regional park districts and policemen of district authorized by
statute to maintain police department.
Ch. 1073 (AB 1335) D U N L A P Amends and renumbers Sec. 4506.5, adds Sees.
       4509, 4509.5, repeals Sec. 4506, B. & P.C., re psychiatric technicians.
   Specifies eligibility of designated persons to be granted psychiatric technician's
license without examination.
   States that no provision of chapter relating to psychiatric technicians shall be
construed to prevent persons from performing specified services for purpose of
training to qualify for licensure under a program authorized by Board of Vocational
Nurse Examiners of the State of California or for training in another professional
field.
Ch. 1074 (AB 1388) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 1161, Civ.C, re gifts to
     minors.
  Provides relative to gifts made under California Uniform Gifts to Minors Act
that donor may designate one or more successor custodians to serve' consecutively
under specified conditions. Makes related changes.
Ch. 1075 (AB 1407) C H A P P I E Amends, adds, various sees., Veh.C, F . &
     G.C., re snowmobiles.
  Provides for regulation and identification of snowmobiles as vehicles exempt from
registration; and requires payment of $5^service fee for an identification plate for
privately owned snowmobiles.
   Make certain uses of snowmobile unlawful.
   Provides snowmobiles having unladen weight of less than 1,500 pounds are sub-
ject to equipment provisions relating to motorcycles.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 9261, Veh.C, proposed by AB 675, to be
operative only upon enactment of AB 675.
Ch. 1076 (AB 1408) C H A P P I E New act, re junior colleges: initial equipment.
   Authorizes certain junior college districts to award bids for initial equipment of
buildings and facilities in projects approved by Department of Education and De-
partment of Finance, prior to appropriation of state's share of funding thereof from
Junior College Construction Program Bond Act of 1968, if such district demon-
strates two specified conditions to Department of Education and Department of
Finance.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1077 (AB 1412) B I L L G R E E N E Amends Sec. 13723.2, E d . C , re school
    districts: classified employees.
  Makes provision allowing governing board to recommend minimum educational
and work experience requirements for classified service positions, requiring the per-
sonnel commission, in approving such requirements, and requiring position duties
and qualifications to be prepared and approved prior to issuance of announcement
154                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

for competitive examination to fill position vacancies, applicable to school districts
with a.d.a. of more than 400,000 and to junior college district in territory of city
with population of more than 4,000,000.
   Requires that position duties be prescribed by governing board and that qualifica-
tion requirements be prepared and approved by commission.
Ch. 1078 ( A B 1421) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 23827, B . & P.O., re alcoholic bev-
     erages license.
  Authorizes the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control to issue four additional
original on-sale general licenses in any covinty where the inhabitants number less
than 7,000 and where the major economy of the county is dependent upon the'
continual use of that county's recreational facilities. Provides that to qualify for
such a license a premises must have a seating capacity for 100 or more diners.
Ch. 1079 ( A B 1466) D U F F Y Adds Sec. 14106.5, W. & I.C., re medical assist-
     ance.
  Authorizes director to adopt rules and regulations for payment of services by
monthly payment for each recipient and for methods of enrollment. Provides t h a t
the department may provide that once enrolled the enrollment of the recipient may
not be terminated, except for good cause, within one year of enrollment.
Ch. 1080 ( A B 1491) GONSALVES Amends Sec. 6767.5, B. & P.O., re indus-
     trial engineers.
   Permits the State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers to register
a qualified person, without examination, as an industrial engineer if he filed an ap-
plication for such registration with the board before January 1, 1969, or if he files
such application with the board on or before J a n u a r y 1, 1970, rather than only
permit the board to register without examination a qualified person as industrial
engineer who has filed such application with the board before January 1, 1969.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1081 ( A B 1509) P R I O L O Adds'Sec. 2074.7, I n s . C , re insurance.
  Provides t h a t right of insurer only to cancel policy of insurance on 5 days'
written notice shall be subject to modification by written order of Insurance Com-
missioner, denying right of cancellation unless up to 60 days' notice is given, if
specified conditions are met as to location of property and type of insurance.
  Specifies that orders of commissioner shall apply uniformly to all insurers having -
policies outstanding in any or all designated geographic areas. Specifies properties
and policies which commissioner is authorized or required to except from such-
orders. Limits application of section and orders to policies insuring property then
within geographic area to which a " F a i r Plan" is applicable.
Ch. 1082 ( A B 1558) BAGLEY Adds Sec. 10756, E d . C , re pupils' names and
    academic information.
  Requires school districts when referring to a pupil's surname to use the surname
On the document submitted to prove the pupil's age for admission to school. If the
surname has been changed subsequently pursuant to judicial process, the surname
shown on the court order shall be used.
Ch. 1083 ( A B 1588) B U R K E Amends Sec. 24074, B. & P.C., re alcoholic bev-
     erages : license transfer.
   Directs escrow holder required in alcoholic beverage business of license transfer
involving purchase price or consideration to notify transferor's bona fide creditor
who files a claim with escrow holder, in case where transferor disputes the claim.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 24074, B . & P.O., proposed by AB 252
to be operative only upon enactment of AB 252.
Ch. 1084 ( A B 1596) STACEY Amends heading of Ch. 9 (commencing with
     Sec. 1750), Div. 2, adds Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 1760), * Ch. 9, Div. 2,
     H . & S.C., re emergency medical care services.
   Directs State Department of Public Health to maintain, in cooperation with
local agencies, Emergency Medical Services Program, and enumerates functions.
   Requires the department to report to the Legislature on the program by J a n u a r y
1, 1973, and every odd-numbered year thereafter.
   Provides program shall terminate if federal funds become unavailable.
•Correction
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           155

Ch. 1085 (AB 1599) STACEY Amends and adds various sees., Wat.O., re
     California water districts.
   Authorizes Kern Delta Water District to adopt a plan for water allocation, as
specified; to establish limited areas of the district as the areas in which surface
delivery of water service will be made available, as specified; and to enter into
long-term water service contracts, as specified, with holders of title to land in such
areas. Provides procedure for adoption of such plan. Authorizes district to contract
with public utility, subject to approval of California Districts Securities Com-
mission and Public Utilities Commission, to waive specified provisions relating to
service duplication.
   Authorizes district to levy and collect ground water charges in the manner pre-
scribed for the Kern County Water Agency. Authorizes district to establish zones
for the purpose of fixing varying rates of assessment in accordance with the extent
of benefits to each zone, as specified, and provides procedure for establishment of
such zones. Specifies procedure for the determination and levy of assessments
within each such zone.
   Includes redemption of outstanding w a r r a n t s of California water districts issued
for the acquisition or construction of district works as purpose for which bonds of
district may be issued.
   Authorizes district board of California water districts to provide, as specified, for-
the issuance of warrants of the district for an improvement district, to be payable
from assessments on lands within the improvement district.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1086 (AB 1600) STACEY Amends, adds, and repeals various sees., Wat.C.,.
     re water storage districts.
   Expands purposes for which districts may issue bonds without district election,
and revises provisions governing bond interest rates, payment of bond principal,
bond form, bond interest coupons, and direct assessment w a r r a n t interest rates.
   Provides for interest rates for preliminary assessments of district, and makes
technical changes in procedures for levy of assessments to finance district projects.
Revises provisions governing compensation to be paid members of adjustment board:
Provides for interest rates of interim project assessments of district, and specifies
conditions under which uncalled balances of such assessments may be canceled.
Revises conditions under which property may be sold to district for delinquent
assessments rather than be put up for public sale.
   Revises provisions governing election by district to utilize alternate provisions
for collection and enforcment of district assessment by county, and provides pro-
cedure for collection by county, upon election of district, of specified tolls and
charges.
   Provides that long-term water service contracts entered into by district may
provide that, if recorded, such obligations are a lien on the land with the same
force, effect, and priority as an assessment lien, and revises provisions governing
rules and regulations adopted for the most economical and efficient distribution a n d
use of water within the district.
   Authorizes district to fix tolls or charges for the use of water or for other services
whether or not related to water use, for the purpose of obtaining funds for any
lawful purpose of district. Provides any balance in bond fund upon completion of
an adopted project shall be exclusively used for payment of principal or interest
er deposited in bond reserve fund.
   Provides district board shall file report estimating financial and economic cost
of proposed project.
   Requires that certified copy of rules and regulations or any amendments thereto,
be recorded with county recorder of each affected county upon adoption to be
enforceable against any person not having actual knowledge thereof rather t h a n
 require publication of filing of certified copy with secretary. Requires that copy of
 adopted rules and regulations in district be open for inspection a t district office.
    Permits county treasurer or trustee of bond fund, who bid in or purchased prop-
erty at delinquent sale, to sell such parcel to the highest bidder a t public sale with
 notice, rather than only to person, paying the amount bid in in addition to other
 specified charges at either public or private sale with or witout notice. Permits
 trustee to reject any bid. Permits county treasurer or trustee of bond fund to
convey to owner of record or owner's successor in interest without notice upon the
payment of enumerated charges.
156                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Provides interest rate of direct assessment warrants shall be determined at
time of sale thereof but in no event to exceed 7 percent per year rather than
limit rate to that existing rate a t time of assessment.
   Permits board, on assessed land which has been subdivided into smaller parcels,
to charge a just portion of assessment to parcels upon its own motion, if hearing
has been granted by board.
  Provides district may sell any property deeded to it for nonpayment of assess'
ments at public auction under same conditions as property sold for delinquent
assessments.
  Makes related changes.
  In effect immediately.
Oh. 1087 ( A B 1601) STACEY Amends, adds and repeals various sees., W a t . C ,
     Gov.C, re water appropriation fees.
   Revises fee schedule in connection with applications for permit to appropriate
water, and requires payment, as specified, of an annual application fee equal to
the amount specified in such schedule if the application is not complete or disposi-
tion of the application is being delayed at the applicant's request. Requires pay-
ment, as specified, of a fee equal to one-half the amount specified in the fee schedule
for applications at the time the permit is issued, instead of requiring payment of
specified fees upon issuance of such a permit.
   Requires every person filing petition for a release from priority or assignment
of an application filed by the state to pay, as specified, a fee based upon the fee
schedule for applications.
   Requires State Water Resources Control Board to recommend to the Legislature
not later than December 1, 1969, a plan for the imposition of annual fees to be
charged in connection with permits and licenses to appropriate water.
   Makes related changes.
Oh. 1088 ( A B 1613) B I L L G R E E N E Adds Sec. 10754, E d . C , re pupil's
     achievement: written reports.
  Requires governing board of each school district to prescribe regulations re-
quiring the evaluation of pupil's achievement for each marking period and requir-
ing written report to, or conference with, parents of failing pupil not later than
week during which end of first half of instruction for course falls.
Ch. 1089 (AB 1623) M I L L E R Adds Sec. 13022, P e n . C , re justifiable homi-
      cide: reports.
   Requires each sheriff and chief of police to furnish Bureau of Criminal Statis-
tics with specified annual report of justifiable homicides committed in his jurisdic-
tion. Requires only chief of police to report such homicide in cases where both
sheriff and chief of police would otherwise be required to report it.
Ch. 1090 (AB 1692) U N R U H Adds Sees. 25374, 25375, Gov.C, re leases of
      county property.
   Authorizes supervisors of county having population in excess of 4,000,000 to
lease property to nonprofit entities, not to exceed 40 years and without bidding,
for public medical or dental schools use including related public health care facili-
ties, title to revert to the county upon end of lease; authorizes board of supervisors
of such county to permit nonprofit hospital volunteer groups and auxiliaries to
operate gift shops within medical and health facilities owned or operated by such
county without necessity of competitive bidding or charging of monetary considera-
tion, provided that all proceeds of gift shop are used solely for benefit of patients.
Ch. 1091 (AB 1698) M O O R H E A D Amends Sees. 11653, 11657, adds Sec.
     11904, adds Ch. 3 (commencing with Sec. 11925), Div. 10.5, H. & S.C., re
     restricted dangerous drugs, including narcotics.
  Eliminates requirement that narcotics and opium pipes which are required to
be turned over to the Division of Narcotic Enforcement of the Department of
Justice be turned over immediately to such division.
  Provides method for seizure and disposition of restricted dangerous drugs.
Oh. 1092 ( A B 1939) C H A P P I E Amends Sec. 2303, F . & G.C., re domesticated
     fish.
  Authorizes issuance by the Department of Fish and Game of a permit for delivery
by a licensed domesticated fish breeder of live, domesticated fish to a licensed whole-
sale fish dealer or processor. Requires such dealer or processor to kill such fish and
then to tag or package the fish in prescribed manner.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        157

Gh. 10S3 ( A B 1992) P A T T E E Amends Sees. 15951 and 15953, E d . C , re
     schools: contract bids.
   Kaises from $4,000 to $5,000 the maximum amount of a contract of a school
district for materials or supplies, but not for work to be done, exempt from the
lowest responsible bidder requirement.
   Permits a school district, with an average daily attendance of 1,000 or more, to
let a contract for materials or supplies, but not for work to be done, to the lowest
responsible bidder without publishing the bid notice if the cost estimate is less
than $8,000 rather than $7,000.
Ch. 1094 (AB 1993) P A T T E E Amends Sec. 1684*, L a b . C , re farm labor.
   Increases amount of surety bond required of farm labor contractors to $5,000
from $1,500.
Oh. 1095 (AB 2243) C R A N D A L L Amends Sec. 1607, R. & T.C., re property
     taxation.
  Changes cutoff date for filing an application for reassessment with county board
of equalization from August 26 to September 15 in counties of the second to
ninth classes.
Ch. 1096 (AB 2256) C A M P B E L L Amends Sec. 409.5, P e n . C , re peace officer.
   Makes a misdemeanor the willful and knowing entry into and willful remaining
by unauthorized person, under certain conditions, within an area immediately sur-
rounding any command post activated at any place to abate any calamity or riot
or other civil disturbance if such area has been closed by certain peace officers.
Ch. 1097 (AB 2263) MCCARTHY Adds Sec. 24754, E d . C , re state college
     property.
  Authorizes Trustees of California State Colleges to rent, lease, sell, or trade
state property used for San Francisco State College Downtown Center. Requires
proceeds to be used for acquisition, construction, improvement, or leasing of a
downtown center for such state college.
Ch. 1098 (AB 2273) S T U L L Amends Sees. 13733 and 13734, E d . C , re merit
    systems: veterans' credits.
  Revises definition of "veteran" and "disabled veteran"' as those terms are used
with reference to merit systems in school districts.
Ch. 1099 (AB 2302) P E N T O N Amends Sees. 1260 and 1267, adds Sec. 1261.1,
     Civ.C, re homesteads.
  Increases homestead which may be selected and claimed by person 65 years of
age or older who is not head of a family from not exceeding $7,500 to not exceeding
$15,000 in actual cash value over and above all liens and encumbrances on prop-
erty at time of levy of execution. Provides that whenever claim of homestead is
made pursuant to provisions authorizing such claim by head of family or person
65 years of age or older, which claim includes property previously homesteaded, to
extent such prior homestead is still valid the new claim of homestead shall not be
considered an abandonment of prior homestead. Requires declaration of homestead
of person 65 years of age or older to state that person is 65 years of age or older.
Ch. 1100 (AB 2357) C R A N D A L L Amends Sees. 24503.1, 24529, and 24536,
     E d . C , re state college revenue bonds.
  Raises permissive interest rate on State College Revenue Bond Act of 1947
revenue bond anticipation notes and revenue bonds from 6 percent to 7 percent.
Ch. 1101 ( S B 14) C O L L I E R Amends Sees. 21356, 21802, Veh.C, re yield r
     right-of-way signs.
   Authorizes placement of yield-right-of-way signs a t entrances to intersections or
highways, rather than to intersections or highways which are not through high-
ways, by Department of Public Works and local authorities with respect to high-
ways under their respective jurisdictions.
   Changes provision relating to right-of-way a t entrances to through highways to
require any vehicle approaching a stop sign a t the entrance to, or within, an^
intersection to stop, as provided by Sec. 22450, Veh.C, relating to entrances to a
highway or intersection or railroad grade crossing, and then to yield the right-
of-way to other vehicles which have approached or are approaching so closely from,
* Correction.
158                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

another ,roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard; and specifies that such
vehicle, after making such stop, may proceed and all other approaching vehicles
shall yield right-of-way to such vehicle entering or crossing the intersection. Makes
provision inapplicable where stop signs are erected upon all approaches to an inter-
section.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 21356, Veh.C, proposed by AB 852, to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 852.
Ch. 1102 ( S B 38) S T I E E N Amends Sees. 11922, 11933, R. & T.O., re local
     documentary transfer taxes.
   Exempts transfers of real property from documentary transfer taxes, if any
entity of government is acquiring title, rather than providing for the collection of
such taxes from the other party liable therefor.
  Requires signed declaration by person determining tax or his agent of amount
of such tax due to appear on face of document or separate paper.
Ch. 1108 ( S B 510) C A R R E L L Amends Sec. 1085, E d . C , re driver training.
  Provides that driver training can be offered only to pupils who are at least 15i
years of age a t the completion of a driver training course and not more than 18
years of age a t the time of enrollment in a driver training course, rather than giving
driver training only to pupils between 15J and 18 years of age.
Ch. 1104 ( S B 635) C A R R E L L Amends various sees., E d . C , re driver training.
   Extends authorization to conduct driver training programs to county superin-
tendents of schools, the California Youth Authority, and the Department of Educa-
tion. Limits such authority to school districts maintaining a high school or high
schools.
   Provides t h a t driver training pupils shall be a t least 15J years of age a t the
completion of a driver training course and not more than 18 years of age a t the
time of enrollment in a driver training course rather than providing that no pupil
under 1 5 i or over 18 shall receive automobile driver training.
Ch. 1105 ( S B 658) LAGOMARSINO Amends and adds various sees, and
       heading, Ag.C, re agriculture produce dealers.
   Requires each applicant for a commission merchant or produce dealer's license
or renewal of such license, to include a financial statement prepared by a certified
public accountant or public accountant or on a form prescribed by the Director of
Agriculture.
   Authorizes the director to require a current financial statement when he believes
a licensee is in unsound financial condition, and specifies that failure to submit
such a statement is grounds for revocation.
   Declares that any financial statement submitted is, with certain exceptions,
confidential.
   Requires that any verified complaint must be filed not later than one year after
the date of the last transaction covered by the complaint.
   Requires the director to notify the person against whom a eomplaint has been
filed.
Ch. 1106 ( S B 734) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sees. 23804 and 23805, E d . C , re
     state college student fees.
   Deletes provisions authorizing construction of state college student body center
buildings to be financed by means of borrowing in whole or in p a r t under specified
conditions by the student organization.
   Provides that all state college student fees collected, rather than such fees col-
lected on behalf of a student body organization, under specified provisions shall be
available for financing, operating, and constructing a student body center.
Ch. 1107 ( S B 840) B U R G E N E R «Amends, adds and repeals various sees.,
     E d . C , Gov.C, * U.I.C, W. & I.C., r» Department of Rehabilitation.
   Consolidates provisions relating to Department of Rehabilitation.              ,
   Eliminates various terms and replaces them with definitions to coincide with
the federal rehabilitation amendments of 1968.
   Extends provisions of California Industries for the Blind and Opportunity Work
Centers for the Blind to the blind and otherwise handicapped rather than the
blind and other physically handicapped persons.
•Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           159

  Transfers provisions of McAteer Alcoholism Act from Education Code to Welfare
and Institutions Code to be operative on J a n u a r y 1, 1970, and only upon enact-
ment of SB 338.
Ch. 1108 ( S B 851) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 11922, R. & T.C., re documentary
     transfer tax.
   Revises exemption from documentary transfer tax of specified governmental en-
tities. Deletes authorization to collect tax from other party liable therefor.
Ch. 1109 (AB 1027) M I L I A S New act, re shoreline regional p a r k : community.
   Creates the Mountain View Shoreline Regional Community Park, prescribing
its boundaries, specifying its organization, purposes, powers, operation, and man-
agement, and providing methods of financing its operations.
Ch. 1110 ( S B 225) R O D D A Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, repeals
     various sees., E d . C , re textbooks.
  Authorizes State Board of Education, for purposes of any provision of California
Constitution which requires adoption of a series of textbooks for use in elementary
schools, to adopt one or more separate series of textbooks for any of several
courses, or any combination of such courses, offered in elementary schools.
  Requires state board to adopt a minimum of one basic textbook in specific
courses. Permits state board to adopt a list of two, which may be increased to
four for specific purposes, basic textbooks for a given subject of a given class.
  Provides that number of basic textbooks supplied to a school district shall not
exceed number necessary to provide each pupil enrolled in each subject with one
basic textbook per subject.
  Requires school district governing board to select one or more basic textbook in
accordance with procedure adopted by state board for those subjects and classes in
which selection process is required or adopted.
   Prescribes procedure for adoption and selection of supplementary textbooks.
   Makes related changes.
   To be operative only if ACA No. 60 is approved by electors.
   Provides that whether or not ACA No. 60 is approved, basic textbooks shall be
distributed by the board on the basis of one such textbook for each pupil enrolled
in the indicated grade.
   Calls an election to place Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 60 of the
1969 Regular Session before the voters on J u n e 2, 1970.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 9308, E d . C , proposed by AB 1489 to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 1489.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 9351, E d . C , proposed by S B 822, to be
operative only upon enactment of SB 822.
Ch. 1111 (SB 368) M A R K S Amends heading of Ch. 5 (commencing with Sec.
     13960), P t . 4, Div. 3, adds art. heading preceding Sec. 13960, adds Art. 2
      (commencing with Sec. 13970), *Ch. 5, P t . 4, Div. 3, Gov.C, repeals Title 5
      (commencing with Sec. 13600), Pt. 4, P e n . C , re crime prevention: citizens' in-
     demnification.
   Authorizes the widow and any surviving children of a private citizen who pre-
vented a crime, apprehended a criminal, aided in preventing a crime, or aided
in the apprehension of a criminal and who died as a consequence thereof, to file a
claim with the Board of Control for compensation for such death and for any re-
lated personal injury and property damage, to extent not compensated from any
other source. Limits amount of claim which may be approved by board to $5,000.
   Incorporates additional changes with respect to indemnification of private
citizens proposed by SB 108, to be operative only upon enactment of SB 108.
Ch. 1112 (SB 532) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 3365, L a b . C , re workmen's
     compensation.
  Provides exception in case of the United States government or agency thereof
to law that deems public entity employing firefighter to be employer of firefighter
for workmen's compensation purposes.
   Provides that when the entity being served is the United States government or
agency thereof the State Department of Corrections shall be deemed the employer
and the cost of workmen's compensation may be considered in fixing the reim-
bursement paid by the United States for the service of prisoners.
  In effect immediately.
•Correction.
160                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1113 ( S B 632) G R U N S K Y Amends Sees. 6820, 18102, E d . C , re instruc-
     tion of handicapped minors.
   Authorizes person with a designated subject credential in vocational education to
teach the blind, partially seeing, deaf, hard-of-hearing, speech-handicapped, or
orthopedically handicapped minors in special day or remedial class for such minors,
as well as person with a valid credential authorizing teaching such minors.
   Permits the allowance granted for instruction of blind pupils to be used for
individual supplemental instruction in vocational arts, business arts, or homemaking
for such pupils as well as to retain a reader to assist pupil with his studies, for
individual instruction in mobility, purchase of braille books, sound recordings^
special supplies and equipment, or for braille transcription.
Ch. 1114 ( S B 822) M A R K S Amends Sec. 9351, adds Sees. * 9316.1, 9316.2,
     9351, * repeals Sec. 9351, E d . C , re visually handicapped minors.
   Requires State Board of Education contracts regarding textbooks, as defined, to
include right to reproduce book in manner to make it usable for handicapped
minors, including visually handicapped minors. Provides that royalty, if required,
for such right be that specified in contract for other reproductions of the textbook.
   Authorizes State Board of Education to produce or contract for the production of
textbooks for handicapped minors, including the visually handicapped.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 9351 as proposed by SB 225, to be
operative at same time as SB 225 becomes operative.
Oh. 1115 ( S B 1018) LAGOMARSINO Amends and renumbers, adds, and re-
     peals various sees., W a t . C , re state flood control.
   Declares public interest will be served by state cooperation under a national
flood insurance program, and for such purposes authorizes Department of W a t e r
Resources to cooperate with the United States in various studies and investiga-
tions, to review and comment upon local agency applications to the United States
for making flood insurance available in specific areas, and to provide assistance to
local agencies by furnishing information on flood plains and in developing flood
plain management plans.
   Deletes provision requiring the Department of W a t e r Resources to cooperate with
the federal government and local public agencies in conducting a program of flood
plain zoning as required by the Federal Mood Insurance Act of 1956.
Ch. 1116 ( A B 1667) F O R A N Amends various sees., Veh.C, re vehicle's re-
     moval and appraisal.
  Authorizes any regularly employed and salaried officer of University of California
Police Department to remove vehicles from specified areas under specified cir-
cumstances; and authorizes designated regularly employed and salaried officer or
other employee of such police department to make appraisals of value of vehicles.
  Permits chief of such police department to designate authorized person to make
such appraisal, and requires chief to certify name of such authorized person to
Department of Motor Vehicles in Sacramento.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 22702, Veh.C, proposed by AB 1243, to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 1243.
Ch. 1117 ( S B 72) C A R R E L L Adds Sec. 851.6, P e n . C , re records of arrest.
  Requires, if a person is arrested without a warrant and is released without
being formally charged with a crime pursuant to specified provision of law, that
such person be issued a certificate describing the action as a detention. Requires
Attorney General t o prescribe form and content of such certificate.
Ch. 1118 ( S B 190) T E A L E Amends Sec. 14157, E d . C , and proposed Sec.
     14083, E d . C , re State Teachers' Retirement Law.
  Includes persons who qualify to receive benefits under Legislators' Retirement
Law among persons authorized to redeposit contribution previously repaid to them
under State Teachers' Retirement Law without being employed in a status
requisite for membership in the system.
  Incorporates same changes in Section 14083, as proposed by A B 1728, E d . C , to
be operative upon enactment of AB 1728.
"Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          161

Ch. 1119 (SB 250) M I L L S Amends Sec. 12076, Pen.O.; adds Sees. 8104 and
    ' 8105, W. & I.C., re firearms: mental patients.
   Requires the Department of Mental Hygiene to keep certain identifying records
of all persons subject to provisions relating to mental patients and firearms,
with such records being made available to the State Bureau of Criminal Identifica-
tion and Investigation for purposes of enforcing the laws dealing with control of
concealable firearms. Prohibits general disclosure of such' records. Requires, effec-
tive July 1, 1971, that public and private mental institutions submit information
for such records upon request of Department of Mental Hygiene.
   Requires State Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation to imme-
diately notify dealer if purchaser is person prohibited from owning or having in
possession or under custody or control any concealable firearm.
Ch. 1120 ( S B 427) S H O R T Amends Sees. 4014, 5604, 5650, W. & I.C., re
     psychiatric technicians.
   Allows Department of Mental Hygiene to negotiate and make contracts with
institutions of higher education to assure adequate supply of psychiatric tech-
nicians.
   Incorporates additional changes proposed by A B 986 to Section 5604, W. & I.C.,
to be operative only on enactment of AB 986.
   Includes services of psychiatric technicians in Short-Doyle program. Increases
membership of advisory boards of community mental health services to include
psychiatric technicians.
Ch. 1121 (SB 453) D O L W I G Adds Sec. 7927, P.R.C., re State Lands Com-
    mission.
  Provides that whenever the State Lands Commission receives a survey plat from
a county surveyor of any survey which adjoins or crosses certain types of state
lands, any action by the commission to contest such survey must be commenced
within 90 days after receipt of the survey plat.
Ch. 1122 (SB 496) S H O R T Adds Sec. 602.10, P e n . C , re interference with col-
     lege classes.
  Makes actual or attempted willful obstruction, by physical force, as defined,
and with intent to prevent attendance or instruction, of any student or teacher
seeking to attend or instruct classes at any of the campuses or facilities owned,
controlled, or administered by Regents of the University of California, Trustees of
the California State Colleges, or junior college governing board punishable by up
to $500 fine, one year in county jail, or both.
Ch. 1123 (SB 536) S C H R A D E Amends and adds various sees., B . & P.O., re.
     alcoholic beverages licenses.
   Provides that the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, under specified
conditions, may issue on a temporary basis a daily on-sale general license, which
authorizes the sale of distilled spirits, wine, and beer for consumption on t h e
premises where sold with no off-sale privileges authorized. Prescribes a license fee
of $25 per day.
   Limits the authority of the department to issue sueh licenses to a political party
or affiliate supporting a candidate for public office or a ballot measure, an organiza-»
Hon formed for a specific charitable or civic purpose, a fraternal organization in
existence for over five years with a regular membership, or a religious organization.
   Requires that the distilled spirits that are sold under a daily on-sale general
license be purchased at retail from a holder of an off-sale general license.
   Authorizes off-sale general licensee to sell to holders of daily on-sale general
license, for resale, distilled spirits in packages of limited sizes for consumption ofE
the premises of the off-sale general licensee.
   Makes other related changes.
Ch. 1124 (SB 586) B U R G E N E R Adds Sees. 6902.1, 6904.3, and 11553.1, Ed.C.„
     re mentally retarded minors.
  Provides that mentally retarded minors who come within specified provisions may
be enrolled in integrated programs of instruction, as defined, conducted by a school
district or county superintendent of schools. Requires an apportionment equal i a
amount to that which would have been credited had such minors been in a special
day class for the mentally retarded. Provides that such programs shall be con-
ducted in accordance with rules and regulations established by the State Board
of Education.
     6—L-2180
162                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

   Authorizes enrollment of such mentally retarded minors in experimental pro-
grams and provides for an apportionment to the county superintendent or school
district conducting such programs. Requires Department of Education to approve
such programs in, advance.
   Provides that mentally retarded minors who come within the provisions of a
specified section and who are enrolled in an approved work-study program shall be
credited, ^for apportionment purposes, with days of attendance in a specified man-
ner. Prescribes method of computing average daily attendance of mentally retarded
minors enrolled in approved programs.
Ch. 1125 ( S B 624) DYMALLY Amends Sec. 22606, E d . C , re doctoral de-
    grees ; state colleges.
  Authorizes California State Colleges to award the doctoral degree jointly with
an accredited private institution of higher education, provided the proposed doctoral
program is approved by the Coordinating Council for Higher Education.
  To be operative January 1, 1971.
Ch. 1126 ( S B 631) C O L L I E R Amends Sees. 469, 532, R. & T.C., re property
     tax assessment.
  Requires tax assessor to audit books and records of professions, trades and
businesses having tangible personal property with a full cash value of $50,000 or
more before October 6, 1971, and at least once each four years thereafter, rather
than auditing at least once each four years.
   Declares time within which certain assessments of property which escaped tax-
ation or was underassessed must be made to be on or before October 6, 1971.
Ch. 1127 ( S B 671) A L Q U I S T Amends Sec. 13337.5, E d . C , re temporary
     teachers: junior colleges.
  Authorizes employment by junior colleges of teachers, subject to specified con-
ditions, to be classified as temporary employees, based on need arising because a
certificated employee was granted leave for a semester, quarter, or year, or is ex-
periencing long-term illness.
Ch. 1128 ( S B 702) GRUNSKY Amends Sec. 7301, W. & I.C., re mentally
     disordered sex offenders.
   Provides for transfer of mentally disordered sex offenders temporarily placed in a
state hospital, as well as committed to a state hospital, to an institution under
Department of Corrections.
  Requires head of institution to which a mentally disordered sex offender is trans-
ferred from a state hospital to file necessary court papers.
Ch. 1129 ( S B 901) GRUNSKY New act, re parks and recreation.
  Authorizes Director of Parks and Recreation to transfer fee title or any lesser
interest in all or a portion of Twin Lakes State Beach to the Santa Cruz Port
District upon specified terms and conditions and otherwise as determined by Direc-
tor of Parks and Recreation.
   Provides for payment to the state, by the Santa Cruz Port District, of certain
state costs incurred in acquisition and development of property.
Ch. 1130 ( S B 913) MOSCONE Adds Sees. 13118.3, 13187.6, E d . C , re certifi-
     cated employees: special credentials.
   Authorizes State Board of Education to grant temporary standard teaching
credentials to applicants who possess a professional degree or certificate from an
institution of higher education under prescribed circumstances.
   Requires such applicant to be bilingual in the languages used in the schools
where he will be teaching. Provides that temporary credential will be valid for one
academic year and may be renewed, subject to reasonable progress being made
towards meeting requirements for regular teaching credential.
   Requires State Board of Education to adopt rules and regulations related thereto.
   States legislative intent that bilingual instruction leads to greater proficiency
in English language.
   Incorporates a similar provision, Sec. 13118.3, E d . C , to take effect only upon
enactment of A B 740.
Ch. 1131 ( S B 937) B R A D L E Y Amends Sec. 40000, adds Sec. 2815, Veh.C,
     re school crossing guards.
   Makes it a misdemeanor for any person to disregard any traffic signal or direc-
tion of nonstudent school crossing guard authorized by city police department or
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          163

Department of the California Highway Patrol when he is wearing official insignia
and' in course of his duties.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 40000, Veh.C, proposed by AB 1743,
to be operative only upon enactment of A B 1743.
Ch. 1132 ( S B 938) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sees. 7113 and 7114, H . & S.C.,
     re autopsies.
  Provides that, in addition to written authorization, specified persons, in specified
order, may give verbal authorization, obtained by telephone and recorded on tape
or other recording device, for autopsy of remains of deceased person. Prohibits
performance of autopsy unless authorization is obtained from such specified per-
sons. Specifies that such verbal authorization shall not be authorized in case where
physician who is to perform autopsy is informed that deceased person, at time
of death, was member of religion, church, denomination which relies solely upon
prayer for healing of disease. Makes related changes.
Ch. 1133 ( S B 1014) H A R M E R Adds Sec. 3351.5, L a b . C , re workmen's com-
    pensation.
  Provides that, for workmen's compensation law purposes, "employee" includes
any person whose employment training is arranged by the State Department of
Rehabilitation with any employer and that such person shall be deemed an em-
ployee of such employer, but that any additional workmen's compensation insur-
ance expense incurred by an employer due to such presumption shall be borne by
the department.
Ch. 1134 ( S B 1016) S H O R T Amends Sees. 188.8, 256, S. & H.C., re streets
     and highways.
  Provides that percentage allocation of funds from State Highway Fund to state
highway districts for construction of state highways be adjusted each 4-year period
subsequent to June 30, 1975, based on state highway construction needs for the
8 years commencing with the 4-year period, rather than be adjusted each 4-year
period subsequent to June 30, 1967, based on state highway construction needs for
10 years less construction expenditures budgeted prior to commencement of the
4-year period.
  Retains until J u n e 30, 1975, present procedures in determining allocation of
funds from State Highway Fund to state highway districts for construction oi
state highways.
   Directs Department of Public Works to review California freeway and express-
way system and the entire state highway system, and report thereon to the Legis-
lature at or prior to the 1971, rather than the 1965, Regular Session and each 4
years thereafter.
   Makes other related changes.
Ch. 1135 ( S B 1019) L A G O M A R S I N O Amends Sec. 19526, R. & T.C., re
     property tax assistance.
  Provides that no assistance shall be allowed under Senior Citizens Property
Tax Assistance Law if gross household income of person whose principal trade or
business is farming is $20,000 or more, rather than $10,000 or more.
  Applies to claims filed for property tax assistance for fiscal years ending on and
after June 30, 1970.
Ch. 1136 ( S B 1020) L A G O M A R S I N O Amends Sec. 464, Pen.C, re burglary.
   Includes among techniques constituting particular form of burglary use of
"burning bar," "thermal lance," "oxygen lance" or any other similar device capable
of burning through steel, concrete, or any other solid substance. Deletes reference
to such crime as "burglary with explosives."
Ch. 1137 ( S B 1021) L A G O M A R S I N O Amends Sec. 13520, E d . C , re salary
     computation.
   Revises the method of computing the amount of salary to be paid to a person
who is employed in a position requiring certification qualifications who serves
less than a full school year, to require proportionate compensation on the basis of
actual working days served (including institutes), rather than on the basis of time
served as related to annual school term, defined to include school session days,
specified holidays, institutes, and days services for the district are required. P r o -
vides that if such person serves a complete semester, he shall receive not less
than i annual salary for the position.
164                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 1138 ( S B 1024) S T I E R N Adds Sees. 1834.5 and 1834.6, Civ.C, re aban-
     doned animals.
  Provides that whenever any animal is delivered to any veterinarian, dog kennel,
cat kennel, pet grooming parlor, animal hospital, or any other animal care facility
pursuant to written or oral agreement entered into after effective date of act, and
the owner of such animal does not pick up the animal within 21 calendar days after
the day the animal was due to be picked up, the animal shall be deemed to be
abandoned. Specifies that the person into whose custody the animal was placed for
care shall first try for period of not less than 10 days to find new owner for the
animal, and, if unable to find new owner for animal, shall thereafter humanely
destroy the animal so abandoned.
  Provides that such abandoned animal shall not be used for experiments, nor shall
such an abandoned animal be turned over to a pound or animal regulation depart-
ment of a public agency.
Ch. 1139 ( S B 1026) R I C H A R D S O N Amends, adds, repeals various sees., M.
     & V.C., re Veterans' Home of California.
  Revises provisions relating to the disposition of money and other personal prop-
erty held by the Veterans' Home of California for deceased veteran residents of
the home or for former residents who have been discharged or who have voluntarily
departed.
Ch. 1140 ( S B 1027) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 6310, W . & I . C , re psychiatric
     fees.
   Changes maximum fee to $75 per day for court-appointed psychiatrists in men-
tally disordered sex offender examination.
Ch. 1141 ( S B 1028) S H O R T Adds Ch. 6 (commencing with Sec. 2300), Div.
     3, S. & H.C., re urban area traffic operations.
  E n a c t s Urban Traffic Operations Improvement Act, to implement T O P I C S Pro-
gram, with assistance of federal funds, to relieve traffic congestion in the urban
areas.
  Creates T O P I C S Advisory Committee to advise and assist Department of Public
Works with respect to such program.
  Specifies procedure in developing program and duties of designated coordinating
agents.
Ch. 1142 ( S B 1029) M A R K S Amends Sec. 1012, M. & V.C., re veterans' in-
     stitutions.
  Broadens class of persons eligible for the Veterans' Home of California to include
aged and disabled persons who served in the armed forces of the United States
during a war period or period of hositility, as defined by law, or in time of peace
in a campaign or expedition for service in which a medal has been authorized by the
government of the United States, who were discharged or released under honorable
conditions.
Ch. 1143 ( S B 1030) M A R K S Amends Sec. 13002, Veh.C, re identification
      cards.
   Makes expiration date of identification card, unless surrendered earlier, on sixth,
rather than fourth, birthday of applicant following date of original issue. Makes
expiration date of renewed card on sixth, rather than fourth, birthday of applicant
following expiration of card, which is being renewed, unless surrendered earlier.
   Requires, at end of six years and six months after issuance or renewal of identi-
fication card, Department of Motor Vehicles to destroy any record of identification
Card, if it has expired and has not been renewed.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 13002, Veh.C, proposed by AB 109, to
be operative only upon enactment of A B 109.
Ch. 1144 ( S B 1032) LAGOMARSINO Amends Sec. 17, P e n . C , re misde-
     meanors.
   Provides that crimes punishable by imprisonment in state prison and, in discrer
tion of court, also punishable by fine or imprisonment in county jail shall be deemed
misdemeanors for all purposes when prosecuting attorney files in designated court
a complaint specifying offense is misdemeanor, unless defendant a t time of arraing-
ment or plea objects, in which event complaint is required to be amended to
charge felony and case is required to proceed on felony complaint, or when, a t or
before preliminary examination and with consent of prosecuting attorney and
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          165

defendant, magistrate determines offense is misdemeanor, in which event case
is required to proceed as if defendant had been arrainged on misdemeanor com-
plaint. Recasts existing provisions which make crimes punishable by such alterna-
tives misdemeanors where there is judgment imposing punishment other than im-
prisonment in state prison or where court commits defendant to Youth Authority.
Revises provision authorizing court which grants probation without imposition of
sentence to declare offense punishable by such alternatives a misdemeanor.
Oh. 1145 (SB 1037) S H O R T Amends Sec. 15957, Ed.C., re school district con-
     tracts.
  Defines "day labor" as the use of maintenance men, whether employed on
permanent or temporary basis, for purposes of determining whether governing
board may use day labor to make repairs, alterations, or additions to school
buildings, repair or build apparatus or equipment, improvements on school grounds,
or erect new buildings.
Oh. 1146 ( S B 1039) S C H M I T Z Adds Sees. 3100.2 and 3100.10, E d . C , re
      school district reorganization.
   Provides that when proposal to unify a high school district is defeated three or
more times, county committee on school district organization shall submit to State
Board of Education, within 18 months of last election a t which proposal was
defeated, a plan to divide such high school district into two or more unified dis-
tricts, provided plan meets specified criteria.
   Provides that whenever final plans and recommendations for the formation of a
unified school district are formulated and transmitted by the county committee on
school district organization to the State Board of Education for approval, and
the board disapproves such final plans and recommendations, the county superinten-
dent of schools, except where such final plans and recommendations do not meet
the requirements of applicable provisions of law, is required to call, hold, and con-
duct a special election for purpose of adopting or rejecting such final plans and
recommendations. Requires State Board of Education to set forth reasons for any
such disapproval of final plans and recommendations, to be based only on statutory
grounds. Provides that if two-thirds of all votes cast at such special election approve
such final plans and recommendations, the county board of supervisors is required
to undertake specified duties. Provides that final plans and recommendations so ap-
proved shall be effective for all purposes for formation of the unified school district.
Oh. 1147 (SB 1045) WAY Amends Sec. 10301, adds Sec. 6211, repeals Sec.
     10651, E d . C , adds Sec. 19526 as proposed to be added to W. & I.C. by
     SB 840, re visually handicapped students.
   Provides that specialized textbooks, reference books, recordings, study materials,
tangible apparatus, equipment and other similar items for the use of visually handi-
capped students in the central clearing-house-depository established and maintainted
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall be available for use by visually
handicapped students enrolled in the public junior colleges, California State Col-
leges, and the University of California.
   Transfers responsibility to assist blind persons in their studies for a college de-
gree from the Director of Education to the Director of Rehabilitation and provides
such assistance to blind persons who are not recipients of federally assisted voca-
tional rehabilitation services.
Oh. 1148 (SB 1046) WAY Amends Sec. 3296.5, E d . C , re California commu-
     nity colleges.
  Provides that chief executive officer of board of governors of California commu-
nity colleges shall prepare and submit statement relating to official information and
statistics with respect to junior college district organization proposals.
Ch. 1149 ( S B 1047) WAY New act, re Tulare County flood control.
  Creates Tulare County Flood Control District, consisting of all the territory
of Tulare County. Prescribes organization, operation, management, financing and
other powers and duties of district.
Ch. 1150 ( S B 1048) S H O R T Adds Sec. 35795, Veh.C, re motor vehicle:
    permits.
  Authorizes Department of Public Works to charge fee for issuance of specified
permits. Requires fee schedule to be adopted by the department by regulation.
166                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Limits such fee schedule to produce total estimated revenue not in excess of esti-
mated total cost of department for administering specified provisions.
  Requires funds collected to be deposited in State Highway Fund.
Ch. 1151 ( S B 1052) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 6833, Elee.C, re independent
     nominations.
   Changes deadline by which nomination papers may be filed by independent candi-
dates from 45 to 46 days before an election.
   Gives county clerk power to declare nomination papers for office entirely within^
the county void if they lack number of signatures to qualify and thus remove
need to verify signatures. Requires clerk to notify Secretary of State of total
signatures on nomination papers for office falling within 2 or more counties and
if Secretary of State finds they are less than number to qualify papers, Secretary
of State to notify counties involved that they need not verify signatures.
Ch. 1152 ( S B 1063) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 172f, P e n . C , re alcoholic bev-
     erages.
   Excepts from provision of law permitting transfers of licenses for premises lo-
cated near certain public institutions a transfer to premises located nearer by not
more than 200 feet to the boundaries of the institution. Permits only one such
transfer.
Ch. 1153 ( S B 1064) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 6362, R. & T.C., re sales and
     use taxes.
  Exempts from sales and use taxes, the lease of photographs, whether or not
produced to the special order of the lessee, where the lessee acquires no interest
in the photographs other than the right to reproduce them one time only in a news-
paper.
Ch. 1154 ( S B 1082) W A L S H Adds Ch. 3.1 (commencing with Sec. 4215),
      Div. 5, Title 1, Gov.C, re public contracts.
  Requires state and local public agencies to make provision in the contract for
removal or relocation of public utilities prior to letting construction contracts for
road, street, or highway purposes and prohibits assessment of damages against
contractor for delay caused by failure to provide for removal or relocation of such
utilities.
Ch. 1155 ( S B 1086) W A L S H Amends Sec. 25503.5, B . & P.O., re alcoholic
      beverages: promotional restrictions.
   Allows distilled spirits manufacturer, distilled spirits manufacturer's agent, dis-
tilled spirits general rectifier, or distilled spirits general importer to provide,- without
charge, courses of instruction for licensees and their employees on subject of dis-
tilled spirits.
Ch. 1156 ( S B 1097) D O L W I G Amends Sec. 2451.4, B. & P.C., re podiatrists.
  Revises provision relating to contents of certificate or license of podiatrist.
Ch. 1157 ( S B 1101) D O L W I G Adds Sec. 31831.2, Gov.C, re County Employees
     Retirement Law.
  Permits a member in the active service of a county or district with a retire-
ment system under the County Retirement Law of 1937 who previously elected
deferred retirement under the County Retirement Law of 1937 or the Public Em-
ployees' Retirement System, to have his contributions in the second system com-
puted at the age a t which he entered the first system if he did not receive a com-
putation age based on such age when he became a member of the second system if
he is an active member of the second system or has elected deferred retirement in
the second system.
Ch. 1158 ( S B 1102) W A L S H Amends Sec. 651.3, adds Sees. 652.5 and 656,
     B. & P . C , re unearned rebates, refunds, discounts.
  Prohibits any person, whether or not licensed under provisions relating to the
healing arts, rather than designated licensees in the healing arts, from advertising
or causing or permitting to be advertised any representations in any form which in
any manner refers to the cost, price, charge, or fee to be paid' to designated li-
censees for any commodity or commodities furnished by such person or any service
or services performed by such licensed person when those commodities or services
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         167

are furnished in connection with the professional practice of business for which he
is licensed, under designated circumstances.
   Makes violation of provisions of article relating to unearned rebates, refunds, and
discounts a misdemeanor as to all persons and provides injunctive relief in relation
to such article.
Ch. 1159 ( S B 1107) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 3301, adds Sees. 3301.1, 3301.2,
     and 3301.3, Corp.C, re corporations.
   Provides every domestic corporation within 90 days of filing articles of incorpora-
tion shall file with Secretary of State a statement of names and business or resi-
dence addresses of its president, vice president, secretary and treasurer, and location
and address of its principal office. Provides every such corporation shall make an-
nual filing of such information between April 1 and J u n e 30, unless such state-
ment filed during preceding three months.
   Provides statement of change in location or address of such corporations shall
contain addresses of its officers.
   Provides a corporation may revoke designation of agent for service of process
without designating new agent.
   Requires Secretary of State to establish specified fees by regulation and prescribes
other fees.
   Provides for suspension of corporation by the secretary which fails to meet
these filing requirements and for relief from such suspension under specified condi-
tions.
   Authorizes secretary to dispose of certain superseded statements.
   To become operative J a n u a r y 1, 1971.
Ch. 1160 ( S B 1113) L A G O M A R S I N O Amends Sec. 6554, Blec.C, re filing
     fees.
  Requires candidates for office of district attorney to pay filing fee of 1 percent
of district attorney's annual salary.
Ch. 1161 ( S B 1115) MCCARTHY Amends, adds, repeals, various provisions,
    Gov.C, re Department of Commerce.
  Reconstitutes Department of Commerce. Abolishes California World Trade
Authority; transfers functions to Division of, World Trade of Department of
Commerce; creates California Industry and World Trade Commission to advise
Department of Commerce; transfers functions of Department of Agriculture with
respect to Museum of Science and Industry to Director of Commerce.
  Makes related changes.
Ch. 1162 ( S B 1116) MCCARTHY Repeals Sees. 4104, 4105, 4106, A g . C ,
     amends Sec. 19622, B . & P.C., re fairs.
  Abolishes California Museum of Science and Industry Fund and repeals provision
authorizing annual transfer of $15,000 from F a i r and Exposition F u n d to Cali-
fornia Museum of Science and Industry Fund.
  Provides act shall become operative July 1, 1970.
 Ch. 1163 ( S B 1120) S C H M I T Z Amends Sec. 11171, W. & I.C., re home-
      maker services.
    Permits county welfare departments to use part-time as well as full-time em-
 ployees in providing homemaker services.
    Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 11171, W . & I.O., made by Chapter 117
 of the Statues of 1969.
  Ch. 1164 ( S B 1122) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 12031, P e n . C , re carrying of
       firearms.
    Adds to those categories of persons who may possess loaded firearms in public
  places or streets, regularly employed animal control officers and zookeepers in
  scope of employment and regularly employed uniformed security guards protecting
  property, if local ordinance or, under certain circumstances, resolution designates
' them to do so, either individually or by class.
 Ch. 1165 ( S B 1125) S C H M I T Z Amends Sec. 18214, adds Sec. 18213.5, H . &
      S.C., re mobilehome parks.
   Defines "mobilehome accommodation structure" and empowers Commission of
 Housing and Community Development to adopt specified rules and regulations
 for construction and operation thereof. Specifies t h a t nothing in such provisions is
168                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

to prevent local authorities of any city, county, or city and county, from adopting
more restrictive regulations relating to structural standards and fire safety.
   Includes in definition of "mobilehome park" mobilehome accommodation
structures.
Ch. 1166 ( S B 1128) RODDA Amends Sees. 25451, 25451.3, 25451.7, and
     25452.3, E d . C , re junior colleges.
  Provides that proceedings to form a junior college district pursuant to a specified
procedure for such formation from territory of a unified school district main-
taining a junior college do not require approval by the State Board of Education
or the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges.
   Provides that the common governing board of the unified school district and the
junior college district has responsibility for apportionment of assets and liabilities
of the original unified school district, subject to approval of county committee on
school district organization, or county board of education, if there is no such
county committee.
   Makes specific provisions re evaluation and apportionment of bonds between
two districts.
   Provides t h a t the governing board of unified school district is to designate
which employees of the unified school district were employed in connection with the
junior colleges for purposes of such employees choosing whether to remain as em-
ployees of the unified school district or become employees of the junior college
district.
 > Provides t h a t employees who were members of a local retirement system ad-
ministered by the unified school district and who choose to become employees of
the junior college district shall remain members of such local retirement system
administered by the unified school district.
   Reappropriates from State Construction Program Fund amount of specified
1968 appropriation unexpended on J u n e 30, 1969, to be allocated for construction
projects pursuant to agreement between Department of Finance and Board of
 Governors of California Community Colleges in augmentation of Item 369 of the
Budget Act of 1968, for construction of junior college facilities.
Ch. 1167 ( S B 1135) A L Q U I S T Amends Sec. 13355, Veh.C, re drivers' li-
     censes.
  Adds speed contests to those offenses for two or more of which or combinations
thereof within a 12-month period the Department of Motor Vehicles is required to
revoke the driver's license of a juvenile.
Ch. 1168 ( S B 1136) RODDA Amends Sec. 13223, E d . C , re certificated em-
    ployees: credentials.
  Authorizes school district teacher education internship programs to be directed
toward qualification for restricted teaching credentials, as well as other specified
credentials.
Ch. 1169 ( S B 1140) B E I L E N S O N Adds, repeals various sees, and chs., Ag.C,
     re injurious materils.
   Requires the Director of Agriculture to develop an orderly program for the
continuous review of all registered economic poisons and to endeavor to eliminate
from use in the state any economic poisons which endanger the environment.
   Establishes criteria, and revises procedure, for the refusal to register or can-
cellation of registration of economic poisons. Authorizes suspension of registration
pending hearing under specified circumstances.
   Requires the director to control and regulate injurious material, as defined. Makes
provisions re regulation of injurious material applicable to agencies of the United
States and the state and its subdivisions, except when acting within the scope of
their authority and while engaged in conducting or supervising research on any
injurious material. Authorizes the director to prohibit use of an injurious material
in an area of the state.
   Requires any person required to register economic poisons and who sells 01
transfers any injurious material to keep specified records open to inspection by the
director during business hours and to submit specified quarterly reports to the
director.
   Requires the county agricultural commissioner to report quarterly to the director
the type and amount of injurious materials for which permits are issued, the
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         169

crop and pest or pests on which the material is used, and other relevant informa-
tion the director may require.
   Requires the director to summarize quarterly these reports and makes specified
information in these summaries a public record, and authorizes him to publish
or distribute these summaries.
   Defines and regulates the use of "environmentally harmful material." Requires
the director to submit an annual report to the Legislature concerning the use of
environmentally harmful material and programs for their elimination.
Ch. 1170 (SB 1149) S C H M I T Z Repeals and adds Art. 10 * (commencing with.
     Sec. 53900), Ch. 4, P t . 1, Div. 2, Title 5, Qov.C, re financial reports.
  Requires cities and certain districts to file annual budget or statement of antici-
pated revenues and expenditures with county auditor.
Ch. 1171 ( S B 1154) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 800, P e n . C , re criminal
     actions: time limit.
   Provides that, if prosecution is for offense of grand theft, indictment shall be
found, information filed, or case certified to superior court within three years after
its discovery, rather than three years after its commission.
Ch. 1172 ( S B 1155) COLOGNE Adds article heading to Ch. 19 (commencing
    with Sec. 1120), Div. 3, and Art. 2 (commencing with Sec. 1137), Ch. 19, Div.
    3, Prob.C, re inter vivos trusts.
  Establishes procedure for voluntary administration of inter vivos trusts.
  To become operative November 1, 1970.
Ch. 1173 (SB 1158) B U R G E N E R Adds Sec. 5605.1, E d . C , re junior high
    schools.
  Provides that governing board of elementary school district situated within high
school district maintaining a junior high school is not required to permit pupils who
have completed the 6th grade to attend the junior high school if the elementary
school district has withdrawn from that junior high school system.
Ch. 1174 ( S B 1160) B U R G E N E R Amends Sec. 21751, E d . C , re school district
     bond elections.
  Revises the provisions relating to the contents of the formal notice of school
district bond election as to the rate of interest which must be stated therein.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1175 ( S B 1175) COOMBS New act, re Bighorn Mountains W a t e r Agency.
   Creates Bighorn Mountains Water Agency, consisting of designated property in
San Bernardino County. Prescribes organization, operation, management, financing,
and other powers and duties of said agency, including acquiring, storing, and
distributing water, cooperating and contracting with public and private agencies,
levying taxes, and issuing general obligation or revenue bonds.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1176 ( S B 1189) COOMBS Adds Sec. 7019, B . & P.O., re contractors:
     disciplinary proceedings.
  Requires that the Contractors' State License Board prescribe a form on or
before December 31, 1969, which shall describe state's mechanics' lien laws dealing
with filing with county recorder a contract and contractor's payment bond for
private work and requires a licensed contractor to give such form to an owner of
a single-family dwelling, duplex, or triplex before entering into a contract after
December 31, 1969, in excess of $600 for improvement of the property, except when
the owner acts in a capacity of a licensed general building contractor for such
improvement.
Ch. 1177 ( S B 1191) COOMBS Amends Sees. 56003.1, 56028, 56039, Gov.C.,
     re city annexations.
  Provides that certain specified city annexations, without city's objection, may
be conducted according to provisions of District Reorganization Act of 1965.
Ch. 1178 ( S B 1201) A L Q U I S T Adds Sees. 15955.1 and 16803.2, E d . C , re
    school property and equipment.
  Authorizes school districts to enter into contracts for the rental, lease, or lease-
purchase of motor vehicles, other than schoolbuses, equipment or systems for a
•Correction.
170                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

period not to exceed five years and further authorizes school districts to renew such
contracts for an additional period not to exceed five years provided that the rate
of the renewed contract is not greater than the rate set in the existing contract.
  Provides that specified provision identifying portion of annual rental or lease
payment which may represent tax exempt reimbursement to the vendor, lessor, or
his assignee, may be included in bids for contracts for the rental, lease, or lease-
purchase by school districts of motor vehicles, including schoolbuses, and motor
vehicle equipment or systems.
  In effect   immediately.
Ch. 1179 ( S B 1202) A L Q U I S T Amends Sec. 387, S. & H.C., re state high-
     ways.
   Revises condition re construction of portion of Route 87, to provide that con-
struction of all or any portion of Route 87 from Route 85 in vicinity of Pearl
Avenue to Route 101 in vicinity of Guadalupe River may be commenced if City of
San Jose and County of Santa Clara have conveyed all real property acquired
by them for construction of route or portion thereof to state without charge.
Ch. 1180 ( S B 1208) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 8054, E d . C , re course of study.
  Provides t h a t the course 6f study for preschool, kindergarten, grades 1 to 6,
inclusive, and grades 7 and 8 of elementary districts maintaining grades 7 and 8
shall be prescribed and enforced by the governing board. Provides that the govern-
ing board of any school district may cooperate with the county board of education
to develop the courses of study required by Section 8054.
   Makes cost of such cooperation proper charge against funds of county superin-
tendent for such purpose.
Ch. 1181 ( S B 1210) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sees. 30801, 30803, 30805, Ag.C,
     re dog licenses.
   Provides that the county animal control department shall be responsible for duties
that the county clerk now performs in connection with the issuance of dog licenses
if designated by the county board of supervisors.
Ch. 1182 ( S B 1214) B U R G E N E R Amends Sec. 50023, Gov.C, re local agen-
     cies.
   Permits the legislative body of a local agency, at the expense of the local
agency, to meet, either directly or by a representative, with representatives of state,
federal or local executive or administrative agencies, to present views on actions
benefiting or detrimental to the local agency.
Ch. 1183 ( S B 1219) S H O R T Amends heading of Art. 7 (commencing with
    Sec. 7565), Ch. 11, Div. 3, repeals Art. 3.5 (commencing with Sec. 7544),
    Ch. 11, Div. 3, B . & P.C., re private detectives.
  Repeals provisions relating to registration of employees of private investigators,
insurance adjusters, and repossessors.
  Makes related change.
Ch. 1184 ( S B 1221) P E T R I S Amends Sec. 69903, Gov.C, re superior court
    attaches.
  Increases number and salaries of certain attaches in the Superior Court of Ala-
meda County. Designates as administrative officer, attache acting as secretary to
judges and jury commissioner.
Ch. 1185 ( S B 1228) SONG Amends Sec. 2633, B . & P.C., re physical therapy.
  Permits a physical therapist to use an initial or other suffix indicating possession
of a specific academic degree earned at, and issued by, an institution accredited
by a specified accrediting agency. Prohibits use of initials "M.D." unless such physi-
cal therapist is licensed as a physician and surgeon in this state.
Ch. 1186 ( S B 1233) M A R L E R Amends Sec. 118, S. & H.C., re sale of state
     property.
  Permits Department of Public Works to sell excess state highway land by con-
tract of sale and under deeds of trust, subject to approval of the California
Highway Commission, in addition to cash sale.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           171

Ch. 1187 ( S B 1265) S H O R T Amends Sec. 68097.2, Gov.C., re witnesses: in-
     vestigating officers.
  Provides t h a t amount of deposit required of a party who subpoenas member of
the California Highway Patrol, marshal, deputy marshal, sheriff, deputy sheriff,
or city policeman as a witness, t h a t is excess to actual expenses shall be refunded
and that no additional deposit may be required if court continues proceeding on
own motion.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 68097.2, Gov.C, proposed by SB 466j
to be operative only upon enactment of SB 466.
Ch. 1188 ( S B 1272) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 12050, P e n . C , re firearms li-
     censes.
   Authorizes sheriff of county or chief or other head of municipal police department
of city or city and county, rather than such sheriff, board of police commissioners,
city marshal, town marshal, and chief or other head of police department of city
or county, to issue certain license relating to carrying firearms. Provides such license
shall only be issued to resident of the county.
Ch. 1189 ( S B 1273) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 2972, Civ.C, re motor vehicle
     sales.
  Provides that, in sales subject to Rees-Levering Motor Vehicle Sales and Fi-
nance Act, no motor vehicle shall be delivered until seller delivers to buyer fully
executed copy of the conditional sale contract or purchase order and any vehicle
purchase proposal and any credit statement which seller required or requested buyer
to sign, and which he has signed, during contract negotiations, rather than only
conditional sale contract or purchase order.
  Deletes from the provision prescribing the formalities of automobile conditional
sales contracts, provision requiring that any promise by the seller or anyone with
his knowledge, made as an inducement to the buyer, to compensate the buyer for
customer referrals, be stated in such contract and requiring the contract to state
that the unpaid balance be reduced by the compensation owing pursuant to such
promise.
Ch. 1190 ( S B 1282) S H O R T Amends Sec. 70, S. & H . C , re California High-
     way Commission.
   Provides the 1-year term of the chairman of the California Highway Commis-
sion shall begin on a date determined by the commission, rather than requiring it
to be on a calendar-year basis.
   Deletes obsolete language.
Ch. 1191 ( S B 1285) Burgener Adds Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 24320), Ch.
     6, Pt. 11, Div. 2, R. & T.C., re taxation of corporations.
   Provides t h a t income derived by foreign corporations from the international
operation of aircraft or ships shall be excluded from gross income and exempt
from tax under the Bank and Corporation Tax Law if the income is also exempt
from federal income tax and political subdivisions within the foreign country do
not impose an income tax upon U.S. corporations on the same type of income.
   Prohibits specified local entities from levying or collecting any tax on such income.
Ch. 1192 ( S B 1288) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 1802.6, Civ.C, re retail install-
    ment contracts.
  Includes in definition of "retail installment contract," under law ("Unruh Act")
regulating such contracts, any contract which provides for payment in four or
more installments.
Ch. 1193 ( S B 1291) DETJKMEJIAN Adds Art. 9 (commencing with Sec.
     1850), Ch. 1, Div. 2.5, W. & I . C , re youth offenders.
  Authorizes establishment of youth correctional centers which are community based
and county administered. Authorizes juvenile court to commit wards to these
centers as a condition of their probation.
  Authorizes Youth Authority to adopt standards which counties must meet to
qualify for state aid to these centers. Authorizes Youth Authority to reimburse
county at $200 per month per person being supervised by center, and to pay 50
percent of construction costs.
  Provides that the state shall not participate financially in the establishment of
more than four such centers pending a review by the 1974 Legislature of the Youth
Authority's report concerning such centers.
172                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Appropriates $100,000 from General F u n d to Youth Authority to carry out
specified program of establishing youth service bureaus.
Ch. 1194 ( S B 1295) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sees. 1305, 1306, Pen. 0., re
     bail.
  Provides t h a t if, without sufficient excuse, defendant admitted to bail fails to
appear when lawfully required but court has reason to believe sufficient excuse
may exist, court, without ordering forfeiture of bail or issuing bench warrant, may
continue case for reasonable period to enable defendant to appear.
  Extends, if AB 939 is enacted and amends Sec. 1305, P e n . C , period of time
after which court shall enter summary judgment against bondsman if bail bond
is forfeited and forfeiture is not set aside to include any period defendant is
temporarily disabled and unable to appear due to illness, insanity, or detention
by civil or military authorities.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 1305, Pen.C. proposed by AB 939, to be
operative only upon enactment of AB 939.
Ch. 1195 ( S B 1296) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 1203.03, Pen. C , re diag-
      nosis of convicted persons.
   Provides that Department of Corrections shall designate place to which person
referred to it under provisions relating to temporarily placing convicted persons in
diagnostic facility of department for diagnosis and recommendation concerning
disposition of case shall be transported. Provides that, after receipt of person,
department may return person to referring court if director of department, in his
discretion, determines that staff and facilities of department are inadequate to pro-
vide such services. Deletes provision t h a t no person shall be transported to such
facility until director has notified court of place to which person to be transported
and time person can be received.
Ch. 1196 ( S B 1298) SONG Amends Sec. 39090, H . & S.C., re limited produc-
       tion vehicles.
   Revises definition of a "limited production vehicle," which is exempted from the
P u r e Air Act of 1968, to include a make of motor vehicle of a model year prior
to 1971 which was manufactured or sold in California in quantities of less than
2,000 units for such model year.
Ch. 1197 ( S B 1299) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 1738, W. & I.C., re com-
     mitments to youth authority.
   Prohibits transportation of person committed to the custody of the Youth Au-
thority until its director notifies the sheriff of the county of the committing court
of the time and place at which the person may be received.
Ch. 1198 ( S B 1304) B U R G E N E R Adds Ch. 7.2 (commencing with Section
    6790), Div. 6, E d . C , re teacher loans.
  Provides for loans to teachers of educationally handicapped minors so that such
teachers may attend specialized preparation during the summer.
  Provides that school district or county superintendent make original loan and
be reimbursed by the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Specifies maximum
amount of such loans. Provides for repayment of loans to Department of Education.
  Appropriates $50,000 for purposes of act.
Ch. 1199 ( S B 1308) S H O R T Amends Sec. 19452, adds Art. 2.5 (commencing
     with See. 19555), Ch. 8, P t . 2, Div. 5, Title 2, Gov.C, re state civil service.
   Directs appointing power of a state civil service employee to arrange retraining
for placement in other state positions when the employee's position has been sub-
stantially changed by automation, technological, or management initiated changes.
Directs State Personnel Board to assist in the retraining process. Sets forth the
policy of the State to retrain civil service employees for other state positions when
the employee's job is eliminated. Gives the board power to restrict choice and
method of appointment to state positions exercised by the appointing power when
necessary in order to place an employee whose previous state civil service job has
been substantially changed or eliminated.
Ch. 1200 ( S B 1313) COOMBS Adds, amends, repeals various sees., R. & T.C.,
     re inheritance and gift taxes.
   Deletes variovis referencies to adopted persons in provisions relating to that taxa-
tion of transfers of property under the Inheritance Tax Law and the Gift Tax Law
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          173

and provides in a single section in each law for the status of such persons for pur-
poses of such taxes.
  Provides that a mortality table of the Federal Census Bureau, rather than
tables relating to life insurance, shall be used for purpose of determining the value
of certain interests for purposes of inheritance and gift taxes and for a 3J, rather
than 4, percent interest rate with respect thereto.
   Deletes a provision limiting compensation for special employment in connection
with such tax to 10 percent of the amount collected.
Ch. 1201 ( S B 1332) COLOGNE Amends Osteopathic Act (initiative act ap-
      proved by electors November 7, 1922), and Sees. 2376.5, 2496, B . & P.C., re-
      Board of Osteopathic Examiners.
   Provides that each member of the Board of Osteopathic Examiners shall receive
a per diem of $25 for each day actually spent in the discharge of his official duties
and be reimbursed for his traveling and other expenses, rather than permitting him
to receive a per diem not to exceed $10 and his necessary traveling expenses.
   Requires an affirmative vote of at least 3, rather than a t least 7, of the members
of the Board of Osteopathic Examiners, to set aside a penalty and to restore a cer-
tificate after the expiration of one year from the date of revocation when the cer-
tificate has been revoked or suspended for more than one year.
   Raises the annual maximum tax and registration fees from $25 to $75 t h a t the
Board of Osteopathic Examiners is permitted to levy, when added to all other esti-
mated revenue for such year, to defray all estimated expenditures of the board in
administering and enforcing the provisions of the Osteopathic Act.
Ch. 1202 ( S B 1342) * N E J E D L Y Adds Sec. 270h, P e n . C , re support of minors.
   Provides that in any case where there is conviction for offense of failure to will-
fully provide support for either minor child or wife and there is order granting pro-
bation which includes order for support, execution may be issued on such order for
support payments that accrue during time such probation order is in effect, in same
manner as on judgment in civil action for support payments. Declares t h a t this
remedy is in addition to any other available to court and shall not apply when there
is existing civil order for support of same person included in probation support order.
Ch. 1203 ( S B 1370) H A R M E R Amends Sees. 1016 and 1016.5, E d . C , re
     junior colleges.
  Specifically includes governing boards of junior colleges among governing boards of
school districts which may contract with private attorney for legal services under
specified circumstances. Declares provisions to be declaratory of preexisting law.
Ch. 1204 ( S B 1373) S H E R M A N Adds Sees. 6726, 6726.1, 6726.2, 6726.3, and
     6726.4, B. & P.O., re professional engineers.
  Permits State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers to establish
investigation committees to investigate and report on any claim of violation of the
Professional Engineers Act.
  Permits any member of committee to act as an expert witness a t hearing conducted
by the board which is held as a result of committee's investigation.
  Requires that each committee shall be composed of no more than 5 members and
requires that each member of such committee be a registered engineer.
  Provides that each member of such committee shall serve a t the pleasure of the
board and shall not receive compensation for his services but shall receive per diem
and expenses, as specified.
  Grants the same immunity to each member of committee as is granted to public
employee.
Ch. 1205 ( S B 1378) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 816, adds Sec. 836.5, P e n . C , re
     arrests.
  Provides that warrant of arrest shall be directed generally to any peace officer, or
to any public officer or employee authorized to serve process where w a r r a n t is for
violation of statute or ordinance which such person has duty to enforce, in the state,
rather than to any peace officer only, and such w a r r a n t may be executed by any
such officer to whom it is delivered.
  Provides that public officer or employee, when authorized by ordinance, may arrest
person without w a r r a n t whenever he has reasonable cause to believe person has
committed misdemeanor in his presence which is violation of statute or ordinance
•Correction.
174                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

which such officer or employee has duty to enforce. Provides that, if such officer is
acting within scope of authority, there is no civil liability for false arrest or false
imprisonment arising out of lawful arrest or arrest whieh officer had reasonable
eause to believe was lawful. Provides t h a t such officer shall not be deemed aggressor
or lose right to self-defense by use of reasonable force to effect arrest, prevent es-
cape, or overcome resistance.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 816, P e n . C , proposed by AB 1494, to be
operative only upon enactment of AB 1494.
Ch. 1206 ( S B 1381) S T E V E N S Amends See. 830.2, P e n . C , repeals Sec. 399,
     M. & V . C , re peace officers: National Guard.
  Vests in members of the California National Guard powers of peace officers
under certain conditions and prescribes authority of such peace officers.
  Declares provisions do not constitute change in, but are declaratory of, existing
law.
Ch. 1207 ( S B 1382) S T E V E N S Adds Sec. 71, P e n . C , re crimes against offi-
     cials.
  Makes every person guilty of a public offense who with intent to cause, attempts
to cause, or causes, any officer of a public or private edcational institution or any
public officer or employee to do, or refrain from doing, any act in the performance
of his duties, by means of a threat, directly communicated to the officer or em-
ployee, to inflict an unlawful injury upon any person or property, if it reasonably
appears to the recipient of the threat t h a t such threat could be carried out.
   Prescribes penalties for conviction of such offense.
Ch. 1208 ( S B 1399) MOSCONE Adds Ch. 2d (commencing with Sec. 2985.7),
      Title 14, P t . 4, Div. 3, Civ.C, re sales and leases: automobiles.
   E n a c t s Moscone Automobile Leasing Act of 1969, which regulates noncommercial
lease and bailment contracts involving motor vehicles, as defined, prescribing the
contents of such contracts.
Ch. 1209 ( S B 1402) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 2909, B. & P.O., re psycholo-
     gists.
   Exempts from the Psychology Licensing Law persons with specified education and
one year of experience of the type which the Psychology Examining Committee de-
termines will competently and safely permit the person to engage in the activities
regulated by such committee if they are employed by nonprofit community agencies
which receive a minimum of 25 percent of their financial support from any federal,
state, county, or municipal governmental organizations for the pxirpose of training
and providing services. Requires the agency to register such persons with the com-
mittee at the time of employment. Provides that exemption shall be for a maximum
period of two years from the date of registration.
Ch. 1210 ( S B 1405) M A R K S Amends Sec. 13210, Veh.C, re drivers' licenses.
   Provides that when court orders Department of Motor Vehicles not to suspend
driving privilege of person convicted for first time of driving Under influence of li-
quor without causing bodily injury to another person, court may limit driving privi-
lege as condition of probation in any case, rather than only when it determines that
the suspension will affect the livelihood of the person because of the nature of his
employment.
Ch. 1211 ( S B 1416) T E A L E Amends Sec. 13800, P e n . C , re Council on Crim-
    inal Justice.
  Adds four members to be appointed by the Governor to the California Council
on Criminal Justice to include two members of city councils and two members of
county boards of supervisors.
Ch. 1212 ( S B 1424) DOLWIG Amends various sees., Gov.C, re municipal
    courts.
  Increases compensation and changes number of various attaches of municipal
courts in San Mateo County.
Ch. 1213 ( S B 1426) M A R L E R Amends Sees. 592, 2400, Veh.C, re highways:
    definition.
  Makes the exclusion of certain ways and places under federal jurisdiction from
the definition of "highway" applicable only for the purposes of the Vehicle Code
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                              175

provisions relating to registration, to equipment, towing and loading equipment,
to safety regulations, and to size, weight, and load.
   Provides, as to such ways and places, that the Commissioner of the California
Highway Patrol shall not be required to provide patrol or enforce any Vehicle
Code provisions other than those applicable to private property.
Ch. 1214 ( A B 44) V E Y S E Y Adds Sec. 34005, Veh.C, re implements of hus-
     bandry.
  Exempts a trap wagon or spray rig when empty or when transporting not more
than 1,000 gallons of flammable liquids to accomplish the basic function of such
vehicle, from provisions relating to transportation of flammable liquids on highways.
Ch. 1215 (AB 54) L E R O Y F . G R E E N E Amends Sees. 6809, 6002, and 6903,
    E d . C , re special education programs.
  Revises minimum age requirements in special education programs to reflect mini-
mum age of six for compulsory attendance at public schools.
Ch. 1216 (AB 83) C H A P P I E Amends Sec. 28145, Gov.C, re Tuolumne County
     supervisors.
  Increases salary of supervisors in Tuolumne County from $7,800 per year to
$8,700 per year.
Ch. 1217 (AB 100) DTJNLAP Amends Sec. 69891.1, Gov.C, re judicial officers.
  Provides for the establishment and adjustment of salary, classification, and within-
range advancement of superior court judicial secretary in specified county by ap-
proval of the board of supervisors and a majority of the judges of the court. Makes
such persons eligible for retirement, insurance or other benefits as may be avail-
able to county employees.
Ch. 1218 (AB 122) SCHABARTJM Amends Sees. 73, 1177, 1182, L a b . C , re In-
     dustrial Welfare Commission.
  Requires Division of Industrial Welfare to appoint such staff as needed to carry
out its duties, and to loan to Industrial Welfare Commission such personnel, to be
under the supervision of chief of division, as needed by commission to perform its
functions, rather than authorizing division to appoint secretary and other assistants
needed by the Industrial Welfare Commission.
  Requires all orders of commission to include statement as to basis on which
order is predicated and to be concurred in by a majority of the commissioners.
  Authorizes orders of commission to be promulgated during the first three calendar
months of the year, to be effective on date fixed by the commission, not less than 60
nor more than 90 days from publication thereof.
Ch. 1219 ( A B 124) D E D D E H Amends Sec. 5303, adds Ch. 14 (commencing
     with Sec. 5320), P a r t 3, Div. 7, S. & H . C , re 1911 Improvement Act assess-
     ment.
  Provides generally for payment by state of assessments against state-owned land
used for public functions, rather than, as now, for payment by city benefitted by
improvements when assessments remain unpaid for period of 30 days from date of
recordation of assessment. Makes exception as to property acquired prior to re-
cordation of notice of assessment or notice of award of contract for assessment work
within boundaries of a state highway or freeway or route therefor adopted by
California Highway Commission.
  Provides that state is not obligated to pay such assessment until l e g i s l a t u r e has
appropriated funds to make payments therefor. Levies 6 percent interest, commenc-
ing on 31st day after effective date of such appropriation, on assessments if assess-
ments are not paid within 30 days after effective date of appropriation.
Ch. 1220 (AB 158) H A Y E S Amends, adds, and repeals various sees., Gov.C, r e
     coroners.
  Deletes requirement for coroner's jury. Requires coroner to hold inquest upon re-
quest of district attorney, city prosecutor, city attorney or local police officials. Pro-
vides that such inquest shall be held with coroner's jury at coroner's discretion.
  Authorizes coroner or his authorized deputy, or a hearing officer to conduct in-
quest and requires that such inquest be public. Establishes requirements for con-
tents and disposition of coroner's or jury's finding. Requires that findings be filed
with county clerk within 10 days of inquest. Requires that coroner subpoena certain
witnesses to appear a t inquest.
176                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Deletes provisions specially applicable in counties of 4 million or more population
and certain inconsistent provisions.
Ch. 1221 ( A B 162) Z'BERG Amends Sees. 6610 and 6613, S. & H.C., re Im-
     provement Act of 1911.
   Requires a notice of payment which is due to be mailed by registered mail to the
owner of property delinquent on bond payments before certain actions for foreclosure
of bond lien under the Improvement Act of 1911 are commenced.
Ch. 1222 ( A B 174) C H A P P I E Amends and renumbers Sec. 6224, P.R.C., as
     added by Ch. 1397, Stats. 1968, and amends Sec. 2, Ch. 1397, Stats. 1968
     Reg. Sess., re Lake Tahoe.
   Requires the State Lands Commission to conduct research and investigations, as
well as title searches, of Lake Tahoe beaches dedicated for public use. Allows com-
mission to contract with individuals, private organizations, and public agencies to
conduct research and investigations, as well as title searches of Lake Tahoe prop-
erty, using designated funds.
Ch. 1223 ( A B 192) WAXMAN Amends Sec. 9021, E d . C , re student organiza-
     tions.
  Authorizes solicitation of funds and recruitment of members or workers, during
school hours, by a nonpartisan, charitable organization organized by act of Congress
for charitable purposes for nonpartisan and charitable purposes with approval of
county board of education or governing board of school district.
Oh. 1224 ( A B 219) BAGLEY Adds Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 23101),
     Ch. 1, Div. 17, E d . C , re University of California Regents.
  Requires meetings of Regents of University of California to be open to the
public. Authorizes the holding of special meetings so long as public is notified in
specified manner of the time and place of meetings.
  Excepts meetings to consider matters relating to national security, the conferring
of honorary degrees or other honors, matters involving gifts, devises and bequests,
matters involving purchase and sale of investments for endowment and pension
funds, matters involving litigation where open discussion could adversely affect
public interest, matters involving acquisition and disposition of property, matters
relating to complaints or charges against employees of university unless employee
requests public hearing, and matters relating to appointment, employment, per-
formance, compensation, or dismissal of officers and employees.
  Provides that if Legislature adopts partial revision to Section 9, Article I X at
1970 Regular Session, which revision contains an open-meeting provision, ACA 12
of 1969 Regular Session shall be of no effect. In such event Secretary of State
shall not place such measure on any 1970 election ballot.
   Section 1 to be operative only if ACA 12 is approved by the electors.
Ch. 1225 (AB 232) CORY Amends Sees. 8664, 8710, * 8710.5, 8920, and
     * 8920.5, and repeals See. 8603, Elec.C, re democratic central committees).
   Changes date of organizational meeting of Democratic State Central Committee
from the day following a Saturday in August following the direct primary to the
fourth Sunday in January following a general election.
   Changes date of organizational meetings of Democratic county central committees
from second Tuesday in July following primary to second Monday after first day in
January following primary.
   Provides for the meeting dates of state and county central committees of inde-
pendent political parties to remain as presently specified for Democratic Party if
A B 2252 is enacted.
   Provides that present committees of Democratic P a r t y shall continue in office
until January 1971.
Ch. 1226 (AB 257) B A R N E S Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Gov.C, re
     Public Employees' Retirement System.
  Revises provisions of Public Employees' Retirement Law for service credit, in
addition to t h a t received for prior service and service in an employment in which
the person is a member of P.E.R.S., for various types of absences from covered
employment and for employment with employers not participating in the system.
Makes contribution and interest requirements for the crediting of such service
"Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           177

uniform and prescribes the effect thereof. Deletes inoperative additional service
credit provisions and preserves credit granted for service under such provisions.
  Operative on the first day of the month following the month in which the statutes
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session are effective.
Ch. 1227 (AB 258) B A R N E S Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Gov.C,
     E d . C , re Public Employees' Retirement System.
   Revises without substantive change, provisions of P . E . R . S . relating to employ-
ment of retired persons for purposes of clarification and to eliminate obsolete and
inoperative provisions.
   Includes a minimum of $500 of accumulated contributions as alternate qualifica-
tion for retirement of law enforcement members.
   Includes, for purposes of survivor benefits, all service as a local safety member
of a contracting agency rather than only "police" and "fire" service.
   Changes circumstances under which retired classified school employee may be
employed by a school district.
Ch. 1228 (AB 375) B R A T H W A I T E Adds Art. 4.5, * (commencing with Sec.
     21690.5), Ch. 4, P t , 1, Div. 9, P.U.C., re airport relocation and development.
   Establishes program to provide relocation assistance and information to owners
of homes, businesses and farms taken for purposes of airport expansion and de-
velopment. Authorizes the public entity concerned to make compensation for actual
and reasonable moving expenses together with dislocation allowances in certain
instances to compensate for the effect of dislocation on a business or farm opera-
tion. Provides for certain fixed sums in lieu of such allowances under certain cir-
cumstances. Establishes a differential allowance payable to homeowners who re-
purchase other homes within one year and to renters under some conditions. Au-
thorizes the promulgation of rules and regulations necessary for implementation of
the program. Specifies that payments made hereunder shall not be considered
taxable income.
Ch. 1229 ( A B 402) HOM Amends Sec. 22654, Veh.C, re removal of vehicle».
   Authorizes state, county or city authorities charged with maintenance or opera-
tion of any highway, highway facilities or public works facilities, in cases necessi-
tating prompt work on or service to such highway or facility, to move to nearest
available parking location any unattended vehicle which obstructs or interferes with
the performance of such work or service or, vif such moving would be impractical,
to remove and store such vehicle.
   Requires person causing movement of a vehicle to another location where it is-
not readily visible from its former parked location or who stores such vehicle, to
notify owner of vehicle by most expeditious means, and, if unable to notify such
owner, to notify police department of city where vehicle is located, or if in unin-
corporated area of county to notify sheriff's department and California Highway
Patrol in such county. Prohibits any removal and storage unless specified signs
were placed a t least 24 hours prior thereto.
Ch. 1230 (AB 424) T O W N S E N D Amends Sec. 220.2, L a b . C , re public em-
    ployee fringe benefits.
  Permits contributions to pension funds and to health and welfare benefits to be
made by city, county, political subdivision, or other municipal corporation in same
manner as private employer.
Ch. 1231 (AB 478) B I D D L E Amends, adds, and repeals, various sees., P e n . C ,
     re tear gas weapons.
   Enacts Tear Gas Act of 1969.
   Exempts from definition of tear gas any economic poison, as defined, not in-
tended for use to produce discomfort or injury to human beings. Defines "tear gas
weapon" and regulates selling, purchasing, possessing, and transporting such
weapons.
   Establishes procedures and standards for certification of tear gas weapons as
acceptable, as defined, for sale, possession, or transportation.
   Requires Commission of Peace Officer Standards and Training to prepare course
of instruction in use of tear gas, and allows any agency or institution for training
or instruction of peace officers to give such course, upon approval of commission.
   Makes conforming and related changes.
* Correction.
178                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1232 ( A B 480) MCCARTHY New act, re San Francisco Bay study.
   Authorizes the State Water Resources Control Board to make water quality
control studies of the type made by the board pursuant to Chapter 1351, Statutes
of 1965.
 Ch. 1233 ( A B 494) BADHAM Amends, adds, various sees., B . & P.C., re
       employment agencies.
    Redefines conditions under which a person employing part-time employees or
 temporary personal servants, directed by a third person, will be excluded from
 regulation as an employment agency.
    Revises exception from Employment Agency Act for nursing schools, business
 schools, and vocational schools to provide that if such schools charge a fee for
 placement they shall be within the act.
    Specifies, in addition to present requirements, that in order for person engaged
 in mangement consulting to be exempted from Employment Agency Act he must
 not charge fee for registration, and must not advertise positions for which com-
 pensation is less than $15,000 per year or that designated fees are charged.
    Requires the members of the California Advisory Board to the Bureau of
 Employment Agencies that are representatives of the employment agency industry
 to be active in an employment agency and be a proprietor, partner, or corporate
 officer thereof, or a qualified examinee, and to have held a valid, current California
 employment agency license for 5 consecutive years immediately preceding appoint-
 ment to the board.
    States that an employment agency license issued to a corporation or partnership
 is valid only as long as the person qualifying for the license is an active and bona
 fide shareholder in the corporation or a partner in the partnership, as the case may
 be. Provides that, if the qualifying person ceases to be connected with the corpora-
 tion or partnership, it has 90 days to qualify a new person or the license, after
 notice and hearing, will be suspended or revoked.
    Excludes those employment agencies which are exclusively employer retained
  (no fees to applicants) from the requirement that they include in posted fee
 schedules a notice that an applicant who fails to obtain employment shall have
 any deposit returned within 48 hours after demand, or else penalty shall be paid.
    Eliminates requirement that every employment agency contract or receipt, given
 to employment applicant, contain a notice directing the employer to make a speci-
'fied statement.
    Provides that the bureau may approve any contract or agreement between an
 employment agency and an employer of domestic help. Declares that those contracts
 in existence on effective date of this act shall continue in effect until changed or
 superseded by bureau.
    Specifies that the Bureau of Employment Agencies, subject to the approval of the
 Director of Professional and Vocational Standards, shall fix the fees payable by
 employment agencies, rather than the director fixing such fees.
    Excepts persons licensed under provisions relating to accountants from Employ-
 ment Agency Act.
    Eliminates minimum license fees that may be charged employment agencies.
Ch. 1234 ( A B 518) Z ' B E R G Amends Sec. 16750, B . & P.C., re restraint of
     trade.
   Requires that in any action for damages arising from restraint of trade brought
on behalf of any political subdivision or public agency of the state, state retain
for deposit in General Fund, out of proceeds, if any, resulting from such action, an
amount equal to expense incurred by Attorney General in investigation and pros-
ecution of such action.
  Authorizes Attorney General, in connection with actions brought pursuant to
state or federal antitrust laws for recovery of damages by state or its political
subdivisions or public agencies, to enter into contracts relating to investigation
and prosecution of such action with any other party plaintiff who has brought a
similar action. Empowers Attorney General tb render legal services as special,
counsel to, or obtain legal services of special counsel from, any department or
agency of the United States, of this state or any other state or department or
agency thereof, any county, city, public corporation, or public district of this state
Or any agreement with any of above enumerated governmental agencies.
  Authorizes Attorney General to enter into joint exercise of powers agreement
With any of above enumerated governmental agencies.
  In effect immediately.
                  1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         179

Ch. 1235 (AB 521) K E T C H U M New act, re Buena Vista Project.
   Authorizes Department of W a t e r Resources, upon demonstration by the district
of the statewide interest in the project, to grant under the Davis-Grunsky Act,
to the County of Kern an amount not to exceed $5,620,000 for enhancement of
fish and wildlife and recreation in connection with the construction of the Buena
Vista Aquatic Recreation Area.
   Provides that grant shall not be made until copies of a favorable project report
are filed with Legislature. Declares approval of such grant prior to receipt of
project report shall in no way be deemed to set a precedent approval of any other
grant prior to receipt of such reports.
Ch. 1236 (AB 544) C H A P P I E New act, re county water agency: Tuolumne.
  Creates the Tuolumne County Water Agency, consisting of territory of Tuolumne'
County, to provide water for present and future beneficial use. Designates the
powers and duties of the agency, including control of flood waters, storing and
conserving of water, preventing pollution, and generation and sale of electrical
power.
  Provides for management of the agency and authorizes levy and collection of
taxes and the issuance of general obligation and'revenue bonds.
Ch. 1237 (AB 558) P R I O L O Adds Sec. 10094.2, and repeals Sec. 10101,
    I n s . C , re insurance.
  Provides for proportionate relief against liability to participate in assigned risk
program for property difficult to insure to insurers who voluntarily write basic
property insurance in areas designated as "brush hazard areas."
  Deletes July 1, 1970, termination date of provisions relating to such programs.
Ch. 1238 (AB 622) B A D H A M Amends Sees. 6826, * 6872.1, 6872.2, 6873.2,
     P.R.C., re leases and surveys.
  Requires the State Lands Commission, whenever the granting of a permit for
geological or geophysical surveys is being considered by it, to hold, prior to
granting the permit, a public hearing and give not less than 60 days' notice thereof
to each city and county adjacent to the area where such surveys would be con-
ducted, and to publish such notice in specified manner.
  Requires the commission, prior to offering any tide or submerged land area or
beds of navigable rivers or lakes in any area for an oil and gas lease, to hold a
public hearing within a city or county adjacent to such area and give not less
than 60 days' notice thereof to each adjacent city or county, and publish such notice
in specified manner. Requires commission to propose specified plan at such
hearing. Deletes provisions requiring the commission to hold a hearing on such pro-
posed lease only upon receiving specified request, and related provisions.
  Authorizes commission upon specified determinations to lease certain tide and
submerged lands along the Pacific Coast for production of oil and gas, as specified,
and makes related changes.
Ch. 1239 (AB 623) C H A P P I E Adds Sec. 23755.5., E d . C , re residency de-
     terminations : state colleges.
   Provides that a person is a resident student of this state for state college
residency determinations for the year immediately following the date he becomes
21 years of age if he was deemed to be a resident student under specified conditions
re parents' or guardians' military service on the residency determination date im-
mediately preceding the date he became 21 years of age.
Ch. 1240 (AB 658) B R O W N Adds Sec. 509.5, W . & I.C., re juvenile halls.
   Requires Youth Authority to adopt standards governing confinements of minors
in juvenile halls.
Ch. 1241 (AB 666) B R I G G S Adds Ch. 3.5 (commencing with Sec. 27000),
     Div. 21, H. & S.C., re pure pet food.
   Enacts the " P u r e P e t Food Act of 1969" to be administered by the State Depart-
ment of Public Health. Requires manufacturers of processed pet food to obtain li-
censes or registration certificates from the State Department of Public Health.
Prescribes conditions and fees for issuance of licenses and registration certificates.
Prohibits certain acts relating to pet foods, prescribes penalties, and authorizes de-
partment to institute injunction proceedings to enforce the act. Prescribes the adul-
teration and misbranding of pet food ingredients and processed pet food and speci-
*Correction.
180                I 9 6 9 EEGULAE SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

fies various conditions deemed to constitute adulteration or misbranding. Authorizes
department to promulgate regulations. Defines various terms.
   Appropriates $19,466 to State Department of Public Health to carry out the
purposes of this act.
Ch. 1242 ( A B 675) B U R K E Amends Sees. 4155, 9261, Veh.C, re vehicle iden-
    tification plates.
  Exempts publicly owned special construction, cemetery, and special mobile equip-
ment from displaying a distinguishing symbol or letter on its identification plate,
and exempts publicly owned cemetery equipment from paying the prescribed fee for
such identification plate.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 9261, Veh.C, proposed by AB 1407 to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 1407.
Ch. 1243 ( A B 692) P A T T E E Amends Sees. 985, 986, I n s . C , re disability in-
     surance.
   Requires that in the application to disability insurance of provisions relating to
insolvency, reserves for unearned premiums and amounts estimated to reinsure out-
standing risks be determined according to designated provisions.
Ch. 1244 ( A B 712) M A C G I L L I V R A Y New act, re Imperial Valley Warm-
    water Hatchery.
  Requires priority status be given project for construction of Imperial Valley
Warmwater Hatchery, as specified.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1245 (AB 720) D E D D E H New act, re Sweetwater Flood Control Project.
  Authorizes Department of Public Works and County of San Diego to enter into
joint powers agreement relative to the joint acquisition of rights-of-way for State
Highway Route 54 and the Sweetwater Flood Control Project. Authorizes such
agreement to provide for the advancement of funds by the department to the county
for the county's portion of such rights-of-way to be paid from specified funds, and
requires such advancements to be repaid, with interest, to the department by the
county by June 30, 1975.
Ch. 1246 ( A B 747) C A M P B E L L Amends Sec. 13510, E d . C , re teacher sal-
     aries.
  Permits the governing board of a school district to increase the annual salaries
of persons requiring certification qualifications during the school year at any time
rather than only when the board has retained this right to increase the salaries of
such employees by rules and regulations adopted by the board prior to the com-
mencement of the school year or when the contracts of such employees contain such
provisions.
Ch. 1247 ( A B 776) GONSALVES Amends Sees. 31558.1, 31567, Gov.C, re
     county retirement.
   Extends date of notice of election to receive credit for service as safety member
under County Employees Retirement Law of 1937 from April 1, 1968, to April 1,
1970. Makes provisions giving right to have past service credited as safety member-
ship service effective until April 1, 1970, rather than April 1, 1968.
   Includes within such provisions persons employed in active fire suppression serv-
ice prior to J a n u a r y 1, 1965.
   Allows member of retirement system employed in active law enforcement or fire
suppression who could have elected to become a safety member prior to 1955, rather
than prior to 1952, to elect to become a safety member. Permits the member to elect
to receive credit for service as a safety member from 1955, rather than from 1952.
Ch. 1248 (AB 798) L E W I S Amends Sec. 1803, Veh.C, re conviction for ve-
     hicle violations.
   Includes additional violations which are not required to be reported by court
clerk or judge, within 10 days after conviction, in prescribed manner to the Depart 1
ment of Motor Vehicles.
Ch. 1249 ( A B 816) P R I O L O Amends various sees., H . & N.C., and B. & P.O.,
    re harbors and watercraft.
  Deletes reference to Yacht and Ship Brokers Commission. Deletes references to
Yacht and Ship Brokers Fund and inserts Harbors and Watercraft Revolving Fund.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        181

Transfers funds in Yacht and Ship Brokers F u n d to Harbors and Watercraft Re-
volving Fund.
  Increases the bond for a broker's license or renewal from $2,500 to $5,000.
Ch. 1250 (AB 819) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 1528.5, U.I.C., re unemployment
    insurance.
  Changes from 10 to 15 fiscal years, the period to be utilized in connection with
appropriations for administrative expenses from, and determines the availability of
moneys therefor in, the state's account in Unemployment Trust F u n d under federal
Social Security Act.
  Appropriates $35,931 from money credited to state in the Unemployment T r u s t
Fund under specified condition.
Ch. 1251 (AB 866) H A Y E S Adds Sec. 226.10, Civ.C, and Sec. 280, F e n . C , r e
     adoption proceedings.
  Prohibits, with prescribed exceptions, the concealment of a child proposed to be
adopted within the county in which adoption proceedings pertaining to the child are
pending or, except with court approval, the removal of such child from such county.
  Makes violation of prohibition a crime and prescribes punishment depending oa
specified circumstances.
Ch. 1252 (AB 886) MOBLEY Adds Sec. 996.982, M. & V.C., re 1968 Veterans
    Bond Act.
  Raises maximum annual rate of interest payable on bonds issued pursuant to the
Veterans Bond Act of 1968 from 5 percent to 7 percent.
  To become operative upon the adoption by the electors of Assembly Constitutional
Amendment No. 87 of the 1969 Regular Session.
Ch. 1253 (AB 896) H A Y E S Amends Sec. 39052, adds Sees. 39110, 39111, H . &
      S.C.; amends Sec. 27156, Veh.C, re air pollution : motor vehicles.
   Makes existing motor vehicle air pollution emission standards for gasoline-powered
motor vehicles applicable to motor vehicles which have been modified or altered to
use a fuel other than gasoline or diesel. Requires the State Air Resources Board to
adopt test procedures to establish that such motor vehicles are in compliance with
specified standards.
   Prohibits any vehicle required by federal law to be equipped with pollution con-
trol devices from being operated or left standing upon any highway unless it is
equipped with the required motor vehicle pollution control device.
   Makes related changes.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 39052, H . & S.C, proposed by A B 1985,
to be operative only upon enactment of AB 1985.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1254 ( A B 907) K N O X Amends Sec. 10703, E d . C , re student funds.
  Requires approval of faculty adviser to student body organization and repre-
sentative of student body organization, as well as employee or official designated by
governing board of school district, for expenditure of funds of such organization.
Ch. 1255 (AB 909) S T U L L Amends Sees. 10960, 10962, W. & I.C., re public
     assistance appeals.
   Requires director to immediately serve a copy of a request for a public assistance
appeal on the other party to the hearing and allows such other party to file a
written statement supporting or objecting to the request. Requires director to grant
or deny request no earlier than 5th nor later than 15th, not 10th day upon receipt,
of request.
   Requires director to serve a copy of the petition on the other party entitled t o
such review and allows such party the right to intervene in the proceedings.
Ch. 1256 ( A B 930) L A N T E R M A N Amends Sec. 1248, C.C.P., re eminent
     domain.
  Provides for apportionment of condemnation award between holder of senior lien
and holder of junior lien in specified manner and under designated circumstances in
oases where only a portion of encumbered property is sought to be taken, where
encumbered property sought to be taken or some portion of it is also encumbered
by junior lien, and where junior lien is against only a portion of the property en-
cumbered by senior lien.
  To become operative July 1, 1970.
182                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1257 (AB 934) MILLER Adds Sec. 5989.5, Ed.C, re work experience
    education.
, Authorizes governing board of a school district which establishes and supervises
a work experience education program in which mentally retarded students are
employed in part-time jobs to use funds derived from any source, to the extent
permissible by appropriate law or regulation, to pay wages of such students.
  Expresses legislative intent re such authorization.
Ch. 1258 (AB 937) CRANDALL Amends Sec. 31264, Ed.C., re College Op-
    portunity Grant Program.
  Provides that grants to students under College Opportunity Grant Program may
be made to students who are admitted to and enroll in California public community
or junior college accepted as a recognized candidate for accreditation by the
Western Association of Schools and Colleges.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1259 (AB 939) MURPHY Amends, adds, various sees., Pen.C, re custody
     of arrested persons.
   Authorizes arresting officer or his superior, or, if arrested person is not released
prior to being booked, the officer in charge of such booking or his superior, rather
than only arresting officer, to release person arrested for misdemeanor offense upon
notice to appear. Requires arresting officer, officer in charge of booking or his
superior, or any other person designated by city or county for this purpose, if
arrested person is not so released prior to being booked by arresting agency, to
immediately investigate background of person to determine whether he should be
released upon notice to appear. Specifies facts to be included in such background
investigation.
   Specifies that where bail is in form of written undertaking, sureties shall under-
take, among other things, that defendant will appear and answer any charge in
any accusatory pleading based upon the acts supporting, as the case may be, the
charge, indictment, or complaint originally mentioned in the undertaking, rather
than only that such sureties undertake, among other things, that defendant will
appear and answer, as the case may be, the charge, indictment, or complaint
originally mentioned in the undertaking.
   Provides that where more than one deposit of money is made with respect to any
charge in any accusatory pleading based upon the acts supporting the original
charge as a result of which an earlier deposit was made, defendant shall receive
credit in the amount of any such earlier deposit.
   Revises and recasts provisions relating to discharge of bail forfeitures.
  Requires designated automatic court review of orders fixing amount of bail
whenever person is detained in custody on criminal charge prior to conviction.
   Operative prospectively only.
Ch. 1260 (AB 957) BILL GREENE Amends Sec. 1777.5, Lab.O., re public
     works.
   Provides that a joint apprenticeship committee shall have the discretion to ex-
empt a public works contractor from certain apprentices to journeymen ratio require-
ments under specified conditions. Deletes provision allowing a joint apprenticeship
committee to not apply provisions relating to apprentices on public works within a
joint apprenticeship training area.
   Provides that individual contractors will not be required to obtain exemptions
from local joint apprenticeship committees when an organization representing con-
tractors on a statewide basis has been granted the exemptions, provided such in-
dividual contractors are already covered by local apprenticeship standards.
   In effect immediately,
Ch. 1261 (AB 984) WILSON Amends Sec. 11583, Ins.C, re insurance: pay-
     ment of claims.
  Revises requirements relating to notice which every person, including insurer,
who makes advance payment or partial payment of damages as an accommodation .•
to an injured person or to heirs of deceased person is required to make to the
recipient thereof.
Ch. 1262 (AB 996) FONG Amends Sec. 13341, Ed.C, re teacher-training in-
    stitutions.
  Permits State Department of Education, as well as school districts and county
boards of education, to contract with teacher-training institutions for assignment
                    1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         183

 of certificated personnel to the institution for a period not to exceed one year.
 Permits such employment to be on a part-time as well as full-time basis.
   Permits personnel of teacher-training institution to be assigned by contract to
 school district, county board of education or State Department of Education on
 full- or part-time basis for a period not to exceed one year.
    Deletes authorization to contract for payment of cost of substitute for assigned
 personnel.
Ch. 1263 (AB 997) F O N G Amends Sec. 1110, H . & S.O., re local health
     matters.
   Authorizes State Board of Public Health and the State Department of Public
Health to consult with the California Conference of Local Health Officers on
matters affecting health generally.
   Authorizes the conference to consult with, advise, and make recommendations to
the State Department of Public Health and to other prescribed governmental and
other bodies and officials.
   Requires the conference to adopt bylaws and eliminates provisions dealing with
committees and meetings relative to the conference. Requires the conference to
annually elect officers, rather than a president, a vice president, and a secretary.
   Specifies t h a t any necessary registration fee incident to attendance at not more
than two meetings per year of the conference shall be a legal charge against the
local governmental unit.
Ch. 1264 (AB 1094) K N O X * Repeals and adds various sees., Gov.C, re cities
    and counties.
  Codifies various provisions now found in Art. X I of Calif. Const, relative to cities
and counties which are to be omitted from proposed revision of this article.
  Operative on adoption of Assembly Constitutional Amendment No. 29 of the
1969 Regular Session.
Ch. 1265 (AB 1100) D U N L A P Amends Sees. 1052 and 10604, adds Sec.
     10604.3, E d . C , re school government and discipline.
  Provides that school district governing board shall prescribe rules for government
and discipline, rather than government only, of schools under its jurisdiction. Pro-
vides that such provisions may be enforced by suspending, or, if necessary, expell-
ing pupils who refuse or neglect to obey such rules.
  Deletes provisions authorizing school district governing boards to make and en-
force rules and regulations for the government and discipline of schools and pro-
visions requiring enforcement by suspending, or, if necessary, expelling pupils who
refuse or neglect to obey such rules and regulations from section relating to mem-
bership in secret fraternities, sororities, or clubs.
Ch. 1266 (AB 1123) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 6650, Gov.C, re school bands or
     orchestras.
   Abolishes prohibition against educational institutions, supported by public funds
or receiving tax exemption, furnishing music at event where admission is charged
by any private person, partnership, or corporation organized for profit and author-
izes such institutions to furnish music by their marching band a t athletic events
where the customary number of professional musicians engaged at such event, or
15 professional union musicians, whichever is greater, are employed and by their
band or orchestra at any activity of any other such institution, upon authorization
of the governing body of such institution.
   States legislative intent.
Ch. 1267 (AB 1220) MOBLEY Adds Sec. 163.1, M. & V.C., re National Guard
     aircraft accidents.
  Makes records of special proceedings of any board of inquiry convened by the
commanding general of the state military forces to investigate any accidents involv-i
ing National Guard aircraft for purpose of preventing future accidents not ad-
missible for any purpose in the courts.
  Requires collateral investigation whenever such accidents involve property damage
or personal injury to ascertain the cause and makes records of such collateral
investigations subject to discovery.
•Correction.
184                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1268 ( A B 1325) L A N T E R M A N Adds Sec. 21301, Gov.C, re retirement of
     public officers and employees.
   Provides state miscellaneous members with 20 or more years of service may elect
to have 3 years' military service terminating within 10 days of entering state serv-
ice counted as state service for disability retirement purposes. Prescribes conditions.
Ch. 1269 ( A B 1356) B U R K E Amends Sec. 3501, Gov.C, re firefighters.
   Includes firefighting employees within definition of "public employee" for purposes
of public employer-employee relations law.
Ch. 1270 ( A B 1410) VEYSEY Amends title of Ch. 10 (commencing with Sec-
     tion 6950), Div. 6, and various sees., E d . C , re education.
   Provides for reimbursement to school district for cost of education in grades
kindergarten to 12 of noncitizen children without immigration status in same man-
ner as nonimmigrant children. Defines "noncitizen children without immigration
status." Requires list of nonimmigrant children and noncitizen children without
immigration status to be submitted by school districts through county board of su-
pervisors to the appropriate U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service Office.
   Modifies qualifications for enrollment of students resident in Mexico in state pub-
lic schools. Provides that school district shall, rather than may, charge the parents
of such pupils for the cost of the education provided. Prohibits reimbursement to the
school district for the costs of these students under provisions for reimbursement for
costs of education of certain noncitizen and nonimmigrant students.
Ch. 1271 (AB 1444) D E D D E H Amends Sec. 31691, Gov.C, re County E m -
     ployees' Retirement Law.
   Permits the board of retirement in a county retirement system to pay the cost of
hospital, medical, disability, or life insurance or service for the benefit of its retired
members out of surplus earnings of system in excess of designated amounts, and to
pay these same costs for the benefit of the active members where the county board
of supervisors or district governing body "has elected to provide these benefits to the
active members.
 Ch. 1272 (AB 1475) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 5008, P e n . C , Sees. 1752.8
     and 4125, W. & I.C., re state trust moneys.
   Provides that the funds of wards, patients of state hospitals, or inmates under
the control of the Director of the Youth Authority, the Director of Mental Hygiene
or the Director of Corrections, respectively, may be invested by such director when
authorized by the inmate or patient, or a person in his behalf, in securities eligible
for the investment of surplus state moneys, rather than limiting such investments
of the bonds of this state or the United States or for the payments of which the
faith and credit of the United States are pledged. Imposes certain conditions upon
handling of funds of state hospital patients on and after December 1, 1970.
   Requires any interest or increment on such funds under the control of the Direc-
tor of Mental Hygiene or the Director of Corrections to be deposited in the account
of such person except a state hospital patient may authorize their deposit in the
state hospital benefit fund or an inmate may authorize their deposit in the Inmates'
Welfare Fund.
   Requires the Youth Authority to pay interest not exceeding 6 percent on accounts
of parolees upon withdrawal, at rate and under conditions specified in the regula-
tions of the Youth Authority.
CE7T273 (AB 1539) SCHABARUM New act, re Puddingstone State Recrea-
     tion Area.
  Authorizes conveyance of all lands included within the Puddingstone State Rec-
reation Area to the County of Los Angeles upon specified conditions.
Ch. 1274 ( A B 1595) STACEY Amends Sec. 14105, W. & I.C., re medical
     assistance.
  Provides t h a t cost reports submitted to providers to a state agency for determin-
ing reasonable cost be considered as true and correct unless audited within 18
months after July 1, 1969, close of period covered by report, or after date of sub-
mission of the original or amended report, whichever is later.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         185

Ch. 1275 (AB 1700) B E V E R L Y Adds Art. 4.7 (commencing with Sec. 1215),
     Ch. 2, Pt. 2, Div. 1, I n s . C , re insurance: holding companies.
  Enacts Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act to permit, under
prescribed conditions, domestic insurer, either alone or in cooperation with any one
or more others, to organize or acquire one or more subsidiaries through investments
in securities, mergers and other means. Provides for administration by Insurance
Commissioner.
Ch. 1276 (AB 1716) B E V E R L Y New act, re state property.
  Authorizes the Director of P a r k s and Recreation to transfer specified parcels of
park units or portions thereof upon terms and conditions as the director determines
are in the best interests of the state park system and to retain specified property
within the system for two years from effective date of act.
Ch. 1277 (AB 1738) B R I T S C H G I Adds Sees. 23358.2, 24070.5, B . & P.O., re,
     alcohol beverages: wine.
  Operative July 1, 1970, prohibits winegrower or brandy manufacturer a t his li-
censed off-sale premises from selling any wine or brandy except wine or brandy
produced or bottled by him or which is produced or produced and packaged for him
and which is sold under brand name owned by him.
  Declares that when winegrower has failed to carry on business actively, pursuant
to winegrower's license, for prescribed period, such license may be transferred only
to person qualified as winegrower, as defined.
Ch. 1278 (AB 1741) B R I T S C H G I Amends Sec. 1427, P e n . C , re corporate-
      summons : vehicle offenses.
   Authorizes service of summons upon corporations by registered or certified mail
with respect to alleged offenses involving violations of the Vehicle Code or local
traffic ordinances.
Ch. 1279 (AB 1743) B A D H A M Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., P.U.C.,
     Veh.C, re interstate highway carriers.
  Requires interstate highway carriers to register annually with the commission
pursuant to standards established by Interstate Commerce Commission and submit
either a copy of the carrier's ICO authorization or an affidavit t h a t the carrier is
exempt from ICC regulation. Establishes registration fees and provides for a waiver
pursuant to arrangement or agreement arrived a t by Reciprocity Commissison under
certain circumstances.
   Provides that any carrier registering its ICC authority prior to effective date need
not do so again for the current year. Conditions registration on proving sufficient
insurance coverage or surety bonds or evidence of qualification as a self-insurer, and
appointing agent to receive service of process. Requires commission to adopt suitable
means of identification of registered vehicles. Makes violation a misdemeanor.
   Deletes former registration provisions.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 40000, Veh.C. proposed by SB 937, to be
operative only upon enactment of S B 937.
Oh. 1280 (AB 1749) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 110 and title of Ch. 4 (com-
     mencing with Sec. 500) of Div. 1, adds Art. 3 (commencing with Sec. 540)
     to Ch. 4 of Div. 1, F i n . C , re banks.
  Prohibits bank from establishing or maintaining a place of business unless it is
authorized to do so by the Superintendent of Banks. Defines "place of business" to
exclude head office, branch office, or a place of business authorized by the super-
intendent under other provisions; and provides procedures and fees for applying for
and issuing certificate authorizing bank to establish and maintain a place of busi-
ness.
   Revises definitions of "office'' and "head office."
Ch. 1281 (AB 1752) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 1756, adds Sec. 1756.2, F i n . C , re
     foreign banking corporations.
  Defines "foreign country" for purposes of present authority under which foreign
banking corporation may transact business of accepting deposits in this state.
  Adds separate authority for foreign banking corporation to transact business of
accepting certain deposits in this Tstate if it meets specified requirements. Provides
that such foreign banking corporation shall comply with and be subject to specified
provisions of the Financial Code applicable to banks, commercial banks, and non-
departmental banks.
186                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1282 ( A B 1779) D U F F Y Amends Sec. 16643, E d . C , Sec. 16151, W. & I.C.,
     re preschool programs.
  Provides that disadvantaged children between ages three and six years who are
not currently enrolled, rather than between ages three and five years or until en-
rolled, in the public schools are eligible for Department of Social Welfare preschool
educational programs and makes related changes in programs operated by the school
district or county in conjunction therewith.
Ch. 1283 ( A B 1781) D U F F Y Amends, adds, repeals various sees., various
     codes, re State Personnel Board.
  Vests administration of merit systems of local governmental agencies required as
a condition of a state-funded program or by federal law as condition of various
federal grants-in-aid, in State Personnel Board.
  Makes related changes.
   Operative J a n . 1, 1970.
Ch. 1284 (AB 1783) RAY E. J O H N S O N Adds Sec. 12656.7, W a t . C , re flood
     control.
  Authorizes the Reclamation Board to provide assurances to the Secretary of the
Army which may be required in connection with flood control or clearing work on
the channel of the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers and their tributaries pursu-
ant to Section 208 of Public Law 780, 83rd Congress, 2nd Session, or any acts
amending or adding to said section, or with federal emergency flood control work on
state-owned property.
   Provides authorization is subject to the provisions requiring another public agency
other than the Reclamation Board to have assumed the obligation of maintenance
and holding the United States harmless before the board may reallocate or expend
state funds on a project.
Ch. 1285 ( A B 1784) RAY E. J O H N S O N Amends and repeals various sees.,
    F . & G.C., re pheasant license tags. '
  Eliminates pheasant tag requirements in connection with taking of wild pheasants
and provides instead for the issuance to licensed hunter of a pheasant license stamp
to be affixed to hunting license and to be required in connection with taking any
pheasant.
  Makes numerous related changes, including elimination of provisions re tagging
of pheasants and possession after season of tagged pheasants.
   Operative July 1, 1970.
Ch. 1286 ( A B 1812) B E L O T T I Amends Sec. 27122, S. & H.C., re bridge and
    highway districts.
  Makes requirement that one member of Sonoma County Board of Supervisors be
appointed as a director of the Golden Gate Bridge and Highway District operative
on December 12, 1970.
Ch. 1287 (AB 1826) M I L I A S Adds Sec. 21385.1, Gov.C, re Public Employees'
    Retirement System.
  Permits members of agency contracting with P.E.R.S. who did not elect coverage
under survivor allowance provisions to elect to be subject to such provisions.
Ch. 1288 ( S B 19) H A R M E R Amends, adds, and repeals various sees., E d . C ,
     re state college auxiliary organizations.
   Requires state college auxiliary organizations to contract for and receive annual
audit, and to submit such audit to Trustees of California State Colleges and to Di-
rector of Finance. Requires such organizations to annually publish an audited
statement of their finanacial condition. Requires such organizations to be governed
by a board of directors composed in accordance with regulation of trustees.
   Makes president of state college responsible for ascertaining that expenditures are
in accordance with trustees' policies and for propriety of expenditures and integrity
of financial reporting of state college auxiliary organizations.
   Requires business meetings, with advice and counsel of attorney and certified
public accountant, for such organizations. Requires approval of appropriations out-
side of normal business operations, pursuant to regulations established by trustees.
   Prohibits auxiliary organizations from accepting or contracting for grants, con-
tracts, requests, trusts, or gifts unless they are so conditioned as to be usable only
for purposes consistent with trustee policies. Requires operation of commercial serv-
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           187

iees by auxiliary organizations to be self-supporting. Requires surplus funds to be
used for such purposes as are consistent with regulations of the trustees.
   Requires trustees in consultation with Department of Finance and governing
boards of auxiliary organizations, to institute and implement specified objectives.
   Requires all unexpended funds, as well as money, collected on behalf or by stu-
dent body organizations, with a specified exception, to be deposited in local trust
account by chief fiscal officer of state college, rather than be transferred by business
manager to student body treasurer, to be deposited or invested in specified manner.
   Makes related change re student body fees received by state college from state or
federal government for students attending the college.
   Makes chief fiscal officer of college custodian of such funds, which shall be ex-
pended only upon submission of appropriate claim schedule by officers of student
body organization. Requires state college to be reimbursed by student body organiza-
tion for cost of custodial and accounting services rendered in connection with such
funds.
   Requires expenditures of student body funds for scholarship and similar purposes
to be made in accordance with regulations of Trustees of California State Colleges
and be approved by College Financial Aids Office. Requires student's financial aids
record include all such funds received.
   Makes related changes.
   Appropriates $17,197 to California State Colleges for fiscal year 1969-1970 to
provide for special projects coordinator to give systemwide policy direction and
exercise supervision over auxiliary organizations of state colleges.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1289 (AB 1847) M O R E T T I Amends Sec. 8211, Gov.C, re depositions and
     notaries public.
   Increases fee of notary public received from party purchasing original for services
transcribing deposition from $0.55 to $0.65 per 100 words.
   Provides t h a t notary public in county having population of 5,000,000 or over shall
receive for services in reporting deposition not less than $35.00 for one-half day nor
more than fees of reporter pro tempore of superior court of county; and, for serv-
ices in transcribing deposition, not less than $2.00 per 28-line 8J x 11-inch page
from party purchasing original and one copy, and not less than $0.50 per page for
each additional copy made a t same time or from all other parties purchasing a copy.
Ch. 1290 (AB 1875) MOBLBY Amends Sees. 959.1 and 960.3, S. & H.C., re
     county highways.
  Authorizes county board of supervisors to retain an easement for future public
road on a proceeding for abandonment of county highway. Revises provision provid-
ing for reversion of title on property abandoned by county.
Ch. 1291 (AB 1895) MT T RPHY New act, re Santa Cruz tideland grant.
  Grants certain described tide and submerged lands to the City of S a n t a Cruz
upon certain trusts and conditions.
Ch. 1292 (AB 1906) B R A T H W A I T E Amends Sec. 14115, W. & I.C., re medi-
      cal assistance.
   Provides that if patient does not identify himself to provider as Medi-Cal bene-
ficiary, provider may submit his statement within 60 days after date provider certi-
fies as date when patient first so identified provided t h a t date is not later than one
year after service was rendered.
Ch. 1293 (AB 1917) HARVKY J O H N S O N Amends Sec. 4534, A g . C , re fairs.
   Adds duties to the F a i r s Allocation and Classification Committee relating to ad-
ministration of the F a i r and Exposition Fund, private financing for support of local
fairs, allocation of monejs to local fairs, establishment of new district agricultural
associations or local fairs, classification of fairs, and joint or combined fairs.
Ch. 1294 (AB 1931) S C H A B A R U M Amends Sees. 5271, 5272, 5325, B . & P.C.,
      re Outdoor Advertising Act.
   Changes requirement of a permit number plate for the placing of any outdoor ad-
vertising display to a requirement of an identification number plate. Deletes speci-
fications for outdoor advertising display permit number plates issued by the Director
of Public Works, relating to construction, size, and annual color changes.
   Increases, for calendar year 1970, the original permit fee and the annual renewal
fee for an advertising structure from $5 to $ 7 ; sets such fees, for calendar year
1971 and each calendar year thereafter, a t $6.
188                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1295 ( A B 1937) C H A P P I E Amends Sees. 6502, 6503, and 6508, E d . C , re
    special schools.
  Includes county board of education in provisions presently authorizing establish-
ment and maintenance of opportunity schools or classes by school districts.
Ch. 1296 (AB 1955) B U R T O N Amends Sec. 2, Ch. 1333, Stats. 1968, re San
      Francisco Harbor.
   Provides that mineral rights in San Francisco Harbor lands reserved to the state
shall not be exercised so as to interfere with specified rights of persons acquired
under lease, franchise, permit, license, or privilege; provided that lease, franchise,
permit or license must contain a provision specifying place and manner of ingress
and egress to subsurface deposits.
   Requires compensation to be paid to specified persons for the value of improve-
ments, betterments, or structures taken as result of construction, location, realign-
ment, expansion, and maintenance of bridges, highways or other transportation fa-
cilities by the state.
Ch. 1297 (AB 1958) VASCONCELLOS Amends Sec. 11655.5, H. & S.C., re
     marijuana and drugs.
   Increases membership of Research Advisory Panel from 6 to 7 members by adding
Chairman of Interagency Council on Drug Abuse.
  Requires that representative of University of California and representative of
private university in this state on panel be a pharmacologist or physician or a per-
son holding a doctorate degree in the health sciences.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 11655.5, H. & S.C., proposed by AB 1264,
to be operative only upon enactment of A B 1264.
Ch. 1298 (AB 1985) S C H A B A R U M Amends Sec. 39052; adds Sees. 39068,
     39100.3, 39155, H. & S.C., re automobile emissions: manufacturer's violations.
  Revises provision relating to assembly line emission test procedures; requires
State Air Resources Board to adopt, by regulation, emission standards, as well as
test procedures, for assembly line emission tests; subjects each manufacturer or
distributor who violates such procedures or fails to comply with such standards to a
civil penalty of $50 for each vehicle which fails to comply with such regulations and
which is first sold in this s t a t e ; conditions further sale of motor vehicles in this
state upon payment of such penalties.
   States legislative intent relating to assembly line testing.
  Creates Motor Vehicle Pollution Control Fund to which all such penalties must
be paid and which is continuously appropriated to the board to carry out certain
provisions relating to the board.
  Requires new motor vehicles to be the same construction as the approved test
engine and transmission combination except permits changes with respect to such
vehicles previously approved to be made if such changes do not increase emissions
above those for which approval was granted and provided such changes are made in
accordance with procedures specified by the board.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 39052, H. & S.C., proposed by AB 896, to
be operative only upon enactment of A B 896.
Ch. 1299 (AB 2016) STACEY Amends Sec. 3300.5, E d . C , re school districts:
     reorganization.
   Revises provisions authorizing school district reorganization proposals to include
proposed formation of four or more unified school districts, and the division of four
or more existing high school districts, to remove limitation of four or more as to the
number of new unified districts which may be proposed, to specify that such proposal
must be one included in a county master plan, that it include two or more existing
unified school districts, that an election held in the territory shall not affect the
existing unified districts, and that at such an election the formation of individual
unified districts may be approved while other proposed unified district formations
are disapproved.
   Specifies that a eounty master plan under the revised provisions be submitted to
the State Board of Education on or before December 31, 1969, and that succeeding
elections be held on or before June 2. 1970.
   Makes provisions for related matters.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           189

Ch. 1300 ( A B 2053) C H A P P I E Amends Sec. 25210.65, Gov.C, re financing
    county service areas.
  Permits board of supervisors to levy special assessment on property within a
county service area for recreational services and facilities benefiting such property if
such county service area has been formed between J a n u a r y 1 and June 1, 1966.
Ch. 1301 (AB 2065) KNOX Amends, adds, repeals various sees., Gov.C, H . &
     S.C., P.R.C., re local agency formation commissions.
  Requires that boundary changes made after protest hearings regarding new cities
or city annexations be resubmitted to local agency formation commissions. Requires
commissions to submit annual budget to supervisors prior to J u n e 10 each year. Au-
thorizes commissions to destroy certain duplicate or old records. Authorizes com-
missions to approve city detachments and district formations agreed to by all land-
owners without hearing, election, or both, rather than only city annexations as pre-
viously. Deletes distinction between signature requirements and hearings regarding
mandatory and permissive petitions or resolutions under the District Reorganization
Act of 1965 so that signature requirements are now same as those formerly for
permissive proposals and hearings treated as mandatory proposals. Makes act appli-
cable to recreation and park districts, and to Atherton Channel Drainage District
with respect to detachments.
   Provides for transcript records of local agency formation commission meetings a t
request of any person if such person pays cost thereof.
Ch. 1302 (AB 2066) A S S E M B L Y C O M M I T T E E ON LOCAL G O V E R N M E N T
    Adds, amends, repeals, various sees., Gov.C. re court attaches.
  Prescribes number, salaries, qualifications of attaches and employees of various
municipal and superior courts.
Ch. 1303 (AB 2077) K N O X Amends Sec. 6553, Gov.C, re contents of bond
     indentures.
   Increases interest rate on joint powers agreement revenue bonds from 6 to 7
percent.
   Provides bonds may be issued and sold to the federal government, State of Cali-
fornia, or any agency thereof to provide a source for the payment of principal and
interest on federal or State of California loans made to agency issuing bonds.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1304 (AB 2078) M I L I A S Amends See. 5681, B . & P.O., re landscape
     arqhitects.
   Revises the fee schedule to provide that the California State Board of Landscape
Architects may fix an examination fee at any amount not exceeding $50, rather than
providing an examination fee of $40 with the board having the power to reduce the
fee to not less than $20. and to provide that the renewal fee shall be fixed by the
board at any amount not exceeding $75, rather than providing a renewal fee of
$65 with the board having the power to reduce the fee to not less than $10.
Ch. 1305 (AB 2081) K N O X Adds Div. 4.5 (commencing with Sec. 29500) to
    Title 4, Corp.C, re commodity advisers.
  Provides for licensing and regulation of commodity advisers by Commissioner of
Corporations.
  To become operative J a n u a r y 2, 1970.
Ch. 1306 (AB 2093) S I E R O T Y Amends Sec. 1616, adds Sec. 1608.7, R. & T . C ,
     re property tax assessment appeals.
   Permits an applicant for an assessment change to cause an exchange of informa-
tion with assessor by submitting at time of application or a t least 20 days before
hearing, specified data relating to basis of claim. Requires an assessor if such data
is submitted, to submit specified information relating to his assessment at least 10
days before hearing.
   Prohibits, unless other party consents, introduction of evidence on matters not so,
exchanged, but permits new material based on information received from other
party. Requires that where new material introduced by a party, the other party
upon his request be granted a continuance for a reasonable time.
   Revises provision creating two year presumption in favor of value determination
by county board of equalization.
   Applicable to assessments made on or after the lien date in 1970.
190                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1307 ( A B 2126) R U S S E L L Amends Sec. 8701, E d . C , re courses of in-
      struction.
   Excuses pupil from family life and sex education instruction when it conflicts
with religious training and beliefs of parent or guardian and a written request is
made by parent or guardian for excuse; and excuses pupil from health education
when same conflicts with religious training and beliefs, rather than religious be^
liefs, of parent or guardian and such written request is made for excuse.
   Defines "religious training and beliefs" to include personal moral convictions.
Ch. 1308 (AB 2163) MCCARTHY Adds Sec. 1046, * 13712.1, E d . C , re schools.
  Requires each school district to meet with local recreation and park authorities to~
review all possible methods of coordinating planning, design, and construction of
new school facilities and school sites or major additions to existing school facilities
and recreation and park facilities in the community.
   Requires annual report from school districts to Department of Education setting
forth plans to achieve prescribed goals.
   Declares that architectural and engineering firms may be employed on a tem-
porary basis for s specific project by a governing board or by the personnel com-
mission of school district when so designated by the commission. Provides that this
provision shall be effective until the first day of 1971 Regular Session.
Ch. 1309 ( A B 2174) RAY E. J O H N S O N Amends, adds, repeals, various sees.,
     B. & P . C , re fair packaging and labeling.
  Enacts " F a i r Packaging and Labeling Act." Specifies standards and contents of
packages and labels of consumer commodity packages, as defined. Prohibits distri-
bution of packaged commodity unless specifications met. Specifies powers and duties
of Director of Agriculture with regard to act. Authorizes director to promulgate
rules and regulations to carry out act. Makes violation of act a misdemeanor.
  Deletes inconsistent provisions.
Ch. 1310 (AB 2187) VEYSEY Amends Sees. 5779 and 5792, adds Sec. 5787.5,
     E d . C , re Miller-tTnruh Reading Act.
  Requires test results under Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act of 1965 to be sub-
mitted on a school-by-school basis commencing in the 1969-1970 school year, and
requires that priorities for allocation of funds for expansion of programs be based
upon the performance of particular schools, rather than entire districts.
  Requires school districts to establish in-service training programs so elementary
school teachers may observe instructional techniques of specialist teachers under
program.
Ch. 1311 ( A B 2200) LEROY F . G R E E N E Amends Sec. 5254, E d . C , re pupil
     attendance.
   Permits child who will be 4 years and 9 months of age on or before September
1, to be admitted to prekindergarten summer program maintained by school district
for pupils who will be enrolling in kindergarten in September.
Ch. 1312 (AB 2210) FONG Adds Sec. 13561.2, E d . C , re duties of certificated
      employees.
   Authorizes school district governing boards to utilize persons not having certi-
fication qualifications to supervise pupils during any breakfast period or other
nutrition period, and authorizes such personnel to be paid from funds from which
lunch period supervisors may be paid.
Ch. 1313 (AB 2215) L E W I S Adds Sec. 8201.5, Gov.C, re disclosure of in-
      formation.
   Prohibits Secretary of State from disclosing information, other than applicant's
name and address, on application for notary public to other than an applicant or
officers or employees of governmental agencies acting in their official capacities.
Ch. 1314 (AB 2216) L E W I S Amends Sec. 13506, E d . C , re teachers' salary
     schedules.
  Provides that as of July 1, 1970, salary schedules for certificated employees,
other than employees in administrative and supervisory positions, shall be based
on a uniform allowance for years of training and years of experience. Eliminates
provisions specifying that in cities teachers of beginners be ranked with highest
salaried elementary teachers of equal training and experience. Prohibits salary
"Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         191

schedule classification of employee solely on basis of grade level taught. Excludes
substitute teachers and junior college teachers from such provisions.
  Specifies that new provisions shall be inapplicable to junior college districts.
   States legislative intent.
Ch. 1315 (AB 2221) L E W I S Amends Sec. 13443, E d . C , re probationary em-
     ployees.
   Provides with respect to hearing procedure that may be involved when proba-
tionary employees are given notice that their services will not be required for the
ensuing year that hearing shall be by a hearing officer who shall prepare a proposed
decision, rather than providing that in the event the hearing is conducted by a
hearing officer alone, he shall prepare the proposed decision.
   Requires hearing officer to include in proposed decision findings of fact and the
determination as to whether charges sustained by the evidence are related to school
or pupil welfare. Provides that the proposed decision shall not contain a deter-
mination as to sufficiency of the cause or recommendation as to disposition, which
matters shall be determined by school board.
   Makes related technical changes.
Ch. 1316 ( A B 2 2 4 1 ) Z ' B E R G Adds Sec. 8823.5, Elec.C, re county central com-
     mittees.
  Provides that Democratic county central committee of each county, except those
containing 20 or more Assembly districts, may provide for the election of all or a
portion of central committee members to represent districts with each member resid-
ing in the district he represents; each member to be elected at large within the
Assembly district in which the county central committee district he represents is
located. Requires each committee to reapportion a t least once every 10 years based
on number of registered Democrats a t primaries in even-numbered years with up to
10 percent deviation allowed. Requires that districts be compact and contiguous and
provides that they may not cut across existing precinct lines.
Ch. 1317 (AB 2242) Z ' B E R G Amends Sec. 8820, Elec.C. re Democratic county
     central committees.
  Provides that in a county of the eighth class, the Democratic county central
committee may provide for 25 central committee districts, "with each member resid-
ing in district he represents; each member to be elected at large within the Assem-
bly district in which the county central committee district he represents is located.
Requires central committee to reapportion the districts at least once every 10 years
on basis of number of registered Democrats at primaries in even-numbered years,
with up to 10 percent deviation allowed. Requires that the districts be compact and
contiguous and provides that they may not cut across existing precinct district lines.
Ch. 1318 (AB 2254) M I L I A S Amends Sees. 23130 and 27160, Veh.C, re motor
    vehicles: noise limits.
  Revises noise limits applicable to the operations of motor vehicles and to new
motor vehicles which are sold or offered for sale.
Ch. 1319 (AB 2262) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 647, P e n . C , re punishment for
     prostitution.
   Requires, in cases of persons charged with soliciting or engaging in act of prosti-
tution, pleading of single previous conviction, or of two or more previous convic-
tions, of such offense. Requires imprisonment in county jail for not less than 45
days, without release on any basis and without probation or suspension of execution
of sentence, if one such prior conviction is found true or admitted, and imprison-
ment in county jail for not less than 90 days, without release on any basis and
without probation or suspension of execution of sentence, if two or more such prior
convictions are found true or admitted.
   Removes from definition of "prostitution" the provision that a lewd act under
such definition includes acts between persons of the same sex.
   Incorporates additional changes to See. 647, P e n . C , proposed by A.B. 401, to be
operative only upon enactment of A.B. 401.
Ch. 1320 (AB 2267) R U S S E L L Amends and adds various sees., R. & T.C., re-
     tax-exempt organizations.
  Revises qualifications and qualification procedures for nonprofit organizations to
receive exemption from corporation taxes.
  Appropriates $42,000 to Franchise Tax Board to carry out duties imposed by act.
192                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1321 ( A B 2279) S T U L L Adds Sees. 10757 and 10758, E d . C , re pupil
     records.
  Permits parent or legal guardian or person having lawful custody of child, if
parents or guardians are divorced or separated, to see written records concerning
his child or ward on his request during regular school hours in consultation with
certificated employee of district.
  Requires school districts to give each pupil's natural parent or legal guardian at
their request the same written information about the pupil's academic performance
given the parent or guardian having custody of the pupil.
Ch. 1322 ( A B 2305) KNOX Amends Sees. 29040, 43068, amends and renum-
     bers Sec. 51204, adds Sec. 51204, Gov.C, re open-space lands.
   Authorizes a county or city which has entered into contracts or agreements with
owners of land pursuant to the California Land Conservation Act of 1965 to provide
financial assistance from its general funds to any elementary, high school or unified
school district within which such land is located, if the board of supervisors or city
council finds that the district is unable to maintain the level of its educational pro-
gram a t a level similar to that provided in immediately prior fiscal year due to the
decrease in assessed valuation attributable to such agreements or contracts. Author-
izes general law cities to exceed existing tax rate limitations for this purpose.
   Deletes authorization to the parties to a contract under the 1965 conservation act
to request that the assessed value of property be equalized by the county board of
equalization for purposes of ascertaining its value to determine the amount of (he
payments by local government to an owner for restricting his land to agricultural
and compatible uses.
Ch. 1323 (AB 2338) W I L S O N Amends the heading of Ch. 1 (commencing
    with Sec. 15900), P t . 12, Div. 3, Title 2, and Sees. 15900 and 15901, Gov.C, re
    Governor's economic report.
  Revises scope of Governor's economic report and extends time for its submission.
Ch. 1324 ( A B 2345) KNOX Adds Sec. 53069.5, Gov.C, amends Sec. 10606,
     E d . C , re school districts.
  Permits local agency, as defined in Section 54951, to offer reward, the amount
determined by local agency, for information leading to identity and apprehension of
any person who willfully damages or destroys property of local agency. Makes per-
son who destroys or damages property of local agency or parent or guardian of
minor who destroys or damages such property, liable for the amount of such rewards.
Ch. 1325 (AB 2359) T H O M A S Amends Sees. 13321 and 14626, Gov.C, re
     state agency budgets.
   Permits state agencies to budget expenditures by program rather than requiring
classification.
   Authorizes the Department of General Services to include a program cost account-
ing system as considered necessary for the required accounting system for each state
agency.
Ch. 1326 ( S B 59) M I L L S Amends, and adds various sees, and heading, Ag.C,
       re agricultural marketing.
    Raises amount of bond for the produce dealer's license from $2,000 to $4,000.
    Makes the Produce Dealers Act applicable to licensed slaughterers.
    Permits shortened time before hearing re suspension of dealer's or commission
merchant's license when director feels that licensee is in financial difficulty rather
t h a n just when the licensee is bankrupt or insolvent.
    Requires each applicant for a commission merchant or produce dealer's license or
renewal of such license, to include a financial statement prepared by a public ac-
countant or a certified public accountant or on a form prescribed by the Director of
Agriculture.
    Authorizes the director to require a current financial statement when he believes
a licensee is in unsound financial condition, and specifies that failure to submit such
a statement is grounds for revocation.
    Declares that any financial statement submitted is, with certain exceptions, con-
fidential.
    Requires that any verified complaint must be filed not later than one year after
default of licensee.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           193

Ch. 1327 ( S B 1238) M A R L E R Adds Sec. 14012, Gov.O., re state property.
   Authorizes Department of Public Works to classify portion of state highway
right-of-way as nonoperative and allows department to lease such parcels to other
public agencies for public purposes. Also provides that when such land becomes
necessary for state highway operating purposes such lease shall terminate.
   Authorizes department to contribute toward cost of developing parks on such
parcels.
   * This act shall be known as the "Marler-Johnson Highway-Park Act."
Ch. 1328 (SB 572) S H E R M A N Amends Sees. 1300 and 1303, B . & P.O., re
      clinical laboratories.
    Increases maximum amount of and eliminates minimum amount of license fees
for various clinieal laboratory licensees.
    Specifies that State Department of Public Health, rather than State Board of
Public Health, shall give notice to licensees in advance of the renewal date for
licenses that a renewal fee has not been paid. Requires written notice to be given
to licensed clinical laboratory bioanalysts and clinical laboratory technologists rather
than to every licensee by registered mail 90 days in advance of the expiration of the
fifth year. Provides for delinquency fee under designated circumstances.
Ch. 1329 (SB 657) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 31800.5, Gov.C, re county retirement.
   Permits, for purposes of County Retirement Law of 1937, conversion of system
integrated with federal social security to system which is supplemented by federal
social security.
Ch. 1330 (SB 715) C U S A N O V I C H Adds Sec. 16351.5, Gov.C, re state funds.
   Permits transfer to unappropriated surplus of special fund from which originally
made, of unexpended balance in any appropriation for capital outlay made payable
from such fund, which the Director of Finance, with approval of State Public
Works Board, determines not to be required for expenditure pursuant to the appro-
priation.
Ch. 1331 (SB 725) T E A L E Amends Sees. 25601.1 and 25851.1, E d . C , re
     blind and deaf pupils.
   Alters the formula by which a school district of residence of a blind or deaf pupil
pays the State Department of Education for each pupil in attendance a t the Cali-
fornia School for the Deaf and the California School for the Blind from a basis
of a general purpose tax rate to a district tax rate with certain designated excep-
tions.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1332 (SB 824) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 205.5, and adds Sec. 205.8,
     R. & T.C., re veterans' tax exemption.
   Raises from $5,000 to $10,000 the tax exemption allowed to certain disabled
veterans on their homes. Extends this exemption to homes owned by the widows
of such veterans until such time as they may remarry.
   Grants exemption for a blind veteran, in lieu of those now provided, for his
home owned by corporation of which he is a shareholder and because of such fact
has the right to possess a home owned by the corporation. States legislative intent
that reduction of taxes paid by corporation shall be reflected in reduction of charges
to veterans whose qualification caused reduction. Gives assessor exclusive authority
to prescribe procedure for applying for exemption. Provides that exemption shall
be granted when assessor determines applicant meets requirements.
   Contingent upon adoption of Senate Constitutional Amendment No. 29.
Ch. 1333 ( S B 932) S H E R M A N Adds Sec. 655, B . & P.C., re healing arts.
   Prohibits specified relationships between optometrists and registered dispensing
opticians under designated circumstances, and with persons engaged in manufacture,
sale or distribution of designated products. Exempts from prohibition certain
presently existing relationships. Makes violation of such prohibition a misdemeanor
as to optometrist and by person who participates with optometrist in such viola-
tion. Sets forth declaration of legislative intent.
•Correction.



    7—L-2180
194                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1334 ( S B 1009) B E I L E N S O N Adds Sec. 40309.5, Veh.C, re parking
     ordinance violations: bail.
  Requires written notices of violations of city or county parking ordinances to
be accompanied by written notice of the bail for the offense and the address where
bail may be sent.
Oh. 1335 ( S B 1023) S T I E R N Amends Sees. 31243 and 31247, E d . C , re gradu-
     ate fellowships.
   Provides with respect to state competitive graduate fellowship program that
award may be renewed for three additional years under specified conditions and
deletes present provisions relating to renewal of such awards under extraordinary
circumstances or for one summer term under certain conditions.
   Explicitly limits total number of fellowships to 2 percent of total number of
baccalaureate degrees awarded during preceding academic year by accredited colleges
and universities in California. Deletes obsolete provisions.
Ch. 1336 ( S B 1072) H A R M E R Adds Ch. 3.4 (commencing with Sec. 31226),
     Div. 22, E d . C , re College Educational Opportunity Program.
  Creates State College Educational Opportunity Program providing grants and,
where appropriate, educational assistance for students who are economically dis-
advantaged, but who display potential for success in accredited curricula offered by
California State Colleges. Requires Trustees of the California State Colleges to
determine eligibility for grants, to be granted and renewed according to standards
set by Trustees of California State Colleges. Authorizes Trustees of the Cali-
fornia State Colleges to select students from those nominated by each high school
in the state, the Veterans' Administration, and state agencies authorized to nomi-
nate candidates for participation in such programs, but requires such students to
meet standards of the state college which they are attending or the requirement for
the special admissions program established by the trustees. Requires trustees to
keep records of academic progress of students under program.
   Provides for special educational opportunity programs and for specified reim-
bursement from trustees to state college sponsoring such program. Provides no
student shall receive grant in excess of $700 per academic year under this program.
   Prohibits state funds appropriated for purposes of competitive scholarship pro-
gram from being used for State College Educational Opportunity Program.
  Requires all funds appropriated pursuant to Item 116.5 of Budget Act of 1969
to be used for purposes of program.
Ch. 1337 ( S B 1134) CUSANOVICH Amends Sees. 525 and 526, B. & P . C , re
     eyeglasses.
   Includes persons under 18 years of age among those to whom a dispensing op-
tician, optometrist, or a physician and surgeon cannot dispense, prescribe, or sell
eyeglasses unless such eyeglasses are made of a material resistant to shattering.
Provides that such eyeglasses shall not be installed in frames manufactured of
flammable material.
   Provides that a dispensing optician, optometrist, or physician and surgeon is not
subject to disciplinary action for violating the above prohibition unless he is in-
formed by the person obtaining the eyeglasses or of his own personal knowledge
knows t h a t the eyeglasses are for a person who is under 18 years of age.
Ch. 1338 ( S B 1379) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 1680, adds Sec. 1656, B. & P.O.,
      re dental assistants.
   Requires, on or after January 1, 1972, that every person licensed to practice
dentistry in this state certify to the board t h a t he or any person employed by him,
who operates dental radiographic equipment, has passed an examination in radia-
tion safety conducted by the Board of Dental Examiners or has passed a licensing
examination as a dentist or dental hygienist deemed by the board as equivalent to
the radiation safety examination. Authorizes the board to charge a fee for such
examination, not exceeding | 1 0 .
   Makes it unprofessional conduct on or after January 1, 1972, to fail to so
certify, or to falsely certify, to the board. Makes it unprofessional conduct to
permit a person to operate dental radiographic equipment who has not passed the
required examination.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         195

Ch. 1339 (SB 1433) McCARTHY Adds Sec. 4107.1, W. & I.C., re state lands.
  Authorizes the Director of General Services to grant a right-of-way for public
road purposes over a part of Napa State Hospital lands to the County of Napa.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1340 (AB 109) B R I G G S Amends, adds various sees., Veh.C, re identifica-
     tion cards.
   Authorizes Department of Motor Vehicles to issue identification cards to any
person 18, rather than 21, years of age or older who does not have a valid Cali-
fornia driver's license. Authorizes issuance based upon a certificate of naturaliza-
tion issued by the United States Department of Justice.
   Requires identification cards issued to persons under 21 to expire on the 21st
birthday and to bear on the face of the card a profile photograph, a diagonal over-
print of the word "minor," and a statement that the card expires on the 21st birth-
day ; requires cards issued to persons 21 and over to bear a fnllface photograph.
   Revises provisions relating to renewal. Defines cancellation. Makes related and
technical changes.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 13002, Veh.C. proposed by SB 1030
to be operative only upon enactment of SB 1030.
Ch. 1341 (AB 506) D U F F Y Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Ag.C, re
     milk and milk products.
   Changes the procedure for determining whether market milk or products of
market milk should be degraded or excluded for failure to meet the prescribed
bacteria count, coliform determinations, or cooling temperature.
   Changes the procedure for the reinstatement of the- market milk or product of
market milk after its exclusion or degrading.
   Specifies that violation of the bacterial, coliform, and cooling temperature stand-
ards shall be followed promptly by inspection to determine and correct' their causes
and provides t h a t this inspection shall be made immediately after the notice re-
quired by these provisions is sent.
   Provides that samples may be taken from consecutive' milking and consecutive
lots of processed products and shall be taken when requested by the producer, or
processor involved.
   Provides that reinstatement of degraded market milk or products of market milk
shall be made when two consecutive samples taken after the degrade within a
seven-day period meets the standards.
Ch. 1342 (AB 717) CORY Amends Sees. 6702, 6704, and 6713, F i n . C , re
     savings and loan associations.
   Includes within definition of "real property" which a savings and loan associa-
tion may invest in, hold, buy, and sell structures or buildings held under a lease-
hold or subleasehold interest with unexpired term of at least 25 years.
   Provides savings and loan association that has real property used or to be used,
primarily as principal office or branch may invest in specified property up to 30,
rather than 20, percent of specified factors.
   Provides limits on authority of savings and loan association to enter into or
assume leases applies to all associations, rather than those issuing stock or invest-
ment certificates.
   Authorizes savings and loan associations to acquire and hold stock in specified
corporations authorized to be created pursuant to the Housing and Urban Devel-
opment Act of 1968, and to make investments in a partnership, limited partnership,
or joint venture formed pursuant to specified provisions of such act.
   Revises authorization of savings and loan association with respect to investment
of bonds, notes, debentures of national mortgage associations or other similar credit
institutions, including Federal National Mortgage Association. Includes specifically
within authorization stock, bonds, notes, debentures, or other obligations of Govern-
ment National Mortgage Association.
   Provides that, in addition to borrowing otherwise authorized and to extent Sav-
ings and Loan Commissioner approves by regulation or advice in writing, savings
and loan associations may borrow, give security, specifically within authorization
stock, bonds, notes, debentures, or securities authorized by commissioner.
Ch. 1343 (AB 753) Z ' B E R G New act, re Tahoe regional planning.
  Provides that notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the appropriation of
$50,000 to Tahoe Regional Planning Agency provided by Section 6.1 of Chapter
988, Statutes of 1968, is reappropriated for the purpose provided therein, to be
196                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

available for expenditure by the California Tahoe Regional Planning Agency until
such time as the Tahoe Regional Planning Agency commences operation a t which
time the unexpended balance of such amount shall revert to the Tahoe Regional
Planning Agency.
Ch. 1344 ( A B 782) K E T C H U M Repeals Ch. 4 (commencing with Sec. 55001),
    Div. 20, Ag.C, re grain warehouses.
  Repeals provisions for registration and regulation of grain warehouses.
Ch. 1345 ( A B 972) A R K L I N Amends Sees. 1036, 1904, adds Sec. 1904.1,
    P.TJ.C, re Public Utilities Commission.
  Increases various fees charged by the commission for certain certificates of public
convenience and necessity and for certificates authorizing issuance of stock, bonds,
and other evidences of indebtedness.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 1904, P.U.C., respecting fees charged by
the Public Utilities Commission, proposed by SB 1077, to be operative only upon
enactment of SB 1077.
Ch. 1346 ( A B 1223) D U N L A P Amends various sees., W a t . C , re irrigation
      district assessments.
  Extends from three to five years from the date of sale the period during which
property sold for delinquent assessments may be redeemed and after which the pur-
chaser will otherwise be entitled to a deed and requires collector to give notice by
certified mail to last assessee 30 days prior to the end of the redemption period.
  Makes related changes.
  Declares legislative intent that Chapter 780 of Statutes of 1968 shall be appli-
cable only to collector's deeds delivered after the effective date of the Statutes of
1968.
  Declares that act, except foregoing declaration of legislative intent, shall not be
applicable to property sold for delinquent assessments prior to effective date of act
whether or not a collector's deed has been delivered to the purchaser.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 26658, W a t . C , made by AB 281 (Ch. 63,
Stats. 1969).
Ch. 1347 ( A B 1310) B R I 6 G S Amends Sees. 100 and 1391, adds Sec. 119.5
     and Art. 14.2 (commencing with Sec. 1063), Ch. 1, Pt. 2, Div. 1, I n s . C , re in-
     surance.
   Requires, within specified time, all insurance carriers authorized to transact busi-
ness in state, except those writing specified types of insurance in this state, to
establish California Insurance Guarantee Association. Requires each such insurer
to participate in association as condition of its authority to transact business in
state.
   Specifies powers and duties of association and its board of governors. Specifies
powers and duties of Insurance Commissioner with regard to association.
   Includes related provisions.
   Makes permissive, rather than mandatory, the assessment of subscribers of certain
reciprocal or interinsurance exchanges upon insolvency or liquidation.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1348 ( A B 1417) L A N T E R M A N Adds Art. 2.6 (commencing with Sec.
      5140), Ch. 2, Div. 5, P.R.C., re theatrical schools and institutes.
   Authorizes counties with population of 4 million or more to acquire land for and
construct, or lease, or otherwise acquire and maintain, special or technical schools
or institutes for instruction in the dramatic or theatrical arts and related facilities.
   Authorizes such counties to operate such schools or institutes and related facili-
ties, as specified.
   Authorizes such counties to enter into specified lease or sublease with any non-
profit association or corporation for the maintenance, operation and management of
such schools or institutes and related facilities. Grants tax-exempt status to prop-
erty and facilities required and used for such operations and requires transfer of
net assets of nonprofit association or corporation to county upon expiration of lease
or sublease.
Ch. 1349 ( A B 1489) VEYSEY Amends Sec. 9308 and heading of Art. 1 (com-
    mencing with Sec. 9301), Ch. 2, Div. 8, E d . C , re textbooks.
  Deletes requirement that State Board of Education must compute textbook credit
by subject matter for school districts.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          197

  Makes technical change.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 9308, E d . C , proposed by S B 225, to be
operative only upon enactment of S B 225.
Ch. 1350 (AB 1504) P A T T E E Adds, repeals, Sec. 62491, Ag.C, re milk.
  Establishes new conditions that must be met before Director of Agriculture can
suspend the minimum wholesale or retail prices of fluid milk or fluid cream in a
marketing area.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1351 (AB 1511) RYAN Amends Sees. 23608, 23610, 25201, adds Sec.
     25207, E d . C , re California State Colleges.
  Makes technical changes in authority of Trustees of California State Colleges to
participate in federal programs, grants, and loans. Specifically authorizes trustees
to enter into agreements with federal agencies which result in grants, matching
funds, or any other kind of financial aid for institution of housing and other edu-
cational facilities for students and staff of state colleges.
  Defines "service contracts" and authorizes trustees to enter into contracts and
provides that such contracts shall be subject only to the provisions in the State
College Contract Law re labor and material bonds and to such other provisions of
such law as the trustees may from time to time designate as applicable.
Ch. 1352 (AB 1671) F O R A N Amends various sees., S. & H.C., re scenic high-
    ways.
  Renames Advisory Committee on Scenic Highways as Scenic Highway Advisory
Committee.
  Makes related changes.
  Revises Route 75 to be included in scenic highway system from Route 5 near
south end of San Diego Bay to Route 5 via Silver Strand and San Diego-
Coronado Toll Bridge, rather than to San Diego-Coronado Ferry in Coronado.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 263.5, S. & H.C., proposed by AB 1345,
SB 174, and AB 1345 and SB 174, to be operative only upon enactment of A B
1345, SB 174, or A B 1345 and SB 174, respectively.
Ch. 1353 (AB 1751) B R I G G S Amends Sec. 11580.2, I n s . C , re insurance:
     uninsured motorists.
   Provides that insurer and any named insured, prior to or subsequent to the
issuance or renewal of policy of automobile liability insurance, may agree in
writing to delete uninsured motorist endorsement or coverage.
   Revises, operative on January 1, 1971, provisions relating to effect of the insured
having valid and collectible automobile medical payment insurance available to him.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 11580.2, I n s . C , proposed by AB 1398 and
SB 643, to be operative only upon enactment of either or both bills.
Ch. 1354 (AB 1827) M I L I A S Amends Sees. 681, 681.4, 682.2, 682.8, and adds
     Sec. 663.7, H . & N.C., re vessels.
  Appropriates specified moneys for allocation to counties and to the Department
of Parks and Recreation, upon application therefor, for support of boating safety
and enforcement programs, as defined. Requires reimbursement of the Department
of Parks and Recreation for the cost of its boating safety and enforcement pro-
grams conducted from J a n u a r y 1, 1970, to J u n e 30, 1970, but not to exceed
$50,000.
   Increases vessel numbering and ownership certificate fees with increase to be
used for such allocations.
   Requires Department of Harbors and Watercraft to study and report to Legist
lature on feasibility of vesting exclusively with local government responsibility for
patrolling and law enforcement on waterways presently patrolled by the Depart-
ment of Parks and Recreation.
Ch. 1355 (AB 1876) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 62492, * adds 62707.2 and 62707.3,
     repeals Sec. 58656, Ag.C, as proposed by A B 289, re marketing of milk.
   Deletes provisions t h a t specify that only provisions which may be included in a
marketing order or agreement relating to milk, other than manufacturing milk and
market milk which is vised in the manufacture of any dairy product or product
resembling a milk product, are provisions for advertising and sales promotion of
milk, provisions for research studies for certain milk and milk products, and
* Correction.
198                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Other research studies concerning the health, food, nutritional, therapeutic, dietetic
or keeping qualities of milk or milk products or such qualities of other food products
or development of new milk products, provisions for an educational program, and
other appropriate related provisions.
  Provides that the Director of Agriculture shall not terminate the minimum whole-
sale and retail prices for fluid milk in any marketing area that there ceases to be
a stabilization and marketing plan in force and effect if there is in effect in such
marketing area a marketing order applicable to fluid milk issued under the pro-
visions of the California Marketing Act of 1937. Provides method for determining
the cost of fluid milk in the event the production of fluid milk is subject to a market-
ing order.
Ch. 1356 ( A B 1943) C H A P P I E Adds Sees. 1306« and 13951, W a t . C , re Lake
      Tahoe sewage facilities.
  Requires after January 1, 1972, all sewage or other waste within Lake Tahoe
watershed to be placed into a sewer system and treatment facilities sufficient to
handle and treat any resultant sewage and transportation facilities sufficient to
tansport any resultant sewage effluent outside the watershed, except sewage or waste
into a holding tank which is pumped and transported to such treatment and trans-
portation facilities. Declares further maintenance or use of cesspools, septic tanks,
or other means of sewage or other waste disposal in the watershed after such date
to be a public nuisance, and declares the occupancy of any building from which
sewage or other waste is discharged in violation of such provisions to be a public
nuisance and to be subject to injunction. Declares provisions not to be applicable to
a particular area of Lake Tahoe watershed, whenever regional water quality control
board for Lahontan region makes specified findings. Inserts such provisions in
revised provisions on water quality control proposed by AB 413.
   Permits Tahoe City Public Utility District to enter into a contract with State
W a t e r Resources Control Board for a construction loan in an amount not to exceed
$2,000,000 without being required to hold an election on whether or not to enter
into the contract.
   Appropriates $500,000 from the State Water Quality Control Fund to the State
W a t e r Resources Control Board for expenditure, without regard to fiscal years,
for a loan to the North Lake Tahoe Public Utility District for construction
of necessary sewage and storm drainage facilities to prevent and control water
pollution in the north Lake Tahoe area served by the district on condition of repay-
ment of the loan with interest.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1357 (AB 1975) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 1324, P e n . C , re criminal investi-
     gations.
   Provides that, until 91st day after final adjournment of 1972 Regular Session,
in addition to other specified felony proceedings or investigations, in any investiga-
tion of a criminal organization, as defined, or organized crime, as defined, and its
activities conducted by the Attorney General, if person refuses to answer question
or produce evidence on ground he may be incriminated thereby, Attorney General,
in addition to district attorney of proper county, may request superior court in
writing to hold hearing to show cause why such answer should not be given or
such evidence should not be produced.
   Requires Attorney General to report to Legislature not later than specified date
use and effect of such procedure.
Ch. 1358 (AB 1979) DAVIS New act, re redevelopment in disaster areas.
  Appropriates $150,000 to State Allocation Board for purpose of loan to City of
Crescent City pursuant to Community Redevelopment Financial Assistance and
Disaster Project Law and related provisions, and for completion of projects under-
taken pursuant to such law and provisions.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1359 (AB 2139) DAVIS Amends Sec. 1257 and adds Sec. 10505.5, W a t C ,
    re appropriation of water.
  Includes enhancement of fish and wildlife as a specifically mentioned beneficial
use of water the relative benefit from which to be derived shall be considered
by the State W a t e r Resources Control Board in acting upon applications to ap-
propriate water.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        199

   Requires state filings, and permits and licenses issued pursuant thereto, to con-
tain a provision that they do not authorize use of water outside of the county of
origin which is necessary for the development of the county.
   Incorporates additional changes proposed by AB 413 to Section 1257 of the
Water Code, to be operative only upon AB 413 becoming operative.
Ch. 1360 ( A B 2220) L E W I S Amends Sees. 3070, 3074, 3074.5, and 3093,
     L a b . C , re apprenticeship.
  Adds Chancellor of the California Community Colleges, or his permanent and best-
qualified designee, to membership of Apprenticeship Council. Provides that the Board
of Governors of the California Community Colleges may engage in, support, pro-
mote, and cooperate in specified apprentice training instruction. Provides that the
vocational and education activities and services of the Board of Governors of the
California Community Colleges shall not be abridged through the implementation of
certain provisions relating to on-the-job training programs.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 3070, L a b . C , proposed by both A B 340
and AB 745, to be operative only upon enactment of both A B 340 and AB 745.
Ch. 1361 (AB 2323) W I L S O N Adds Ch. 13 (commencing with Sec. 25970),
     Div. 20, H. & S.C., re minors: crossing into Mexico.
  Requires peace officer of any city or county to prevent entry from California into
Mexico a t border by any resident of this state under age of 18 years who is un-
accompanied by parent or guardian or who does not have written consent for such
entry from parent or guardian or who does not have passport. States that authority
so granted shall be only to prevent entry and not to otherwise detain.
Ch. 1362 ( S B 316) G R U N S K Y Amends, adds, repeals various sees., C i v . C ,
     C.C.P., Gov.C, H. & S.C., S. & H.C., re works of improvement.
   Repeals statutes relating to mechanics' liens, notices to withhold, and other mat-
ters relating to private and public works of improvement. Enacts new title of Civil
Code revising and restating law on these subjects.
   Provides shall not be construed as constituting change-in, but shall be construed
rather as declaratory of, preexisting law.
   To become operative January 1, 1971.
   Provides that any section of any other act, enacted by Legislature at 1969 Regu-
lar Session prior or subsequent to enactment of this act, which amends, adds, or
repeals any section of any code which is amended, added, or repealed by this act,
shall prevail over this act.
Ch. 1363 ( A B 2 2 1 4 ) L E W I S Amends Sec. 10751, E d . C , re pupil records.
   Permits school personnel to furnish names and addresses of graduating seniors to
elected officials.
Ch. 1364 ( S B 730) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 3097, Civ.C, as added by S B 316,
     and Sec. 1193, C.C.P., re mechanics' liens.
   Provides that registered engineer or licensed land surveyor who has furnished
services for design of work of improvement and gives preliminary notice not later
than 20 days after wox'k of improvement has commenced has complied with pro-
visions for giving written preliminary notice of filing of claim of lien under
mechanics' lien law with respect to engineering or surveying service furnished or to
be furnished.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 3097, Civ.C, as added by SB 316, to be
operative only upon enactment of SB 316.
Ch. 1365 ( S B 1075) W A L S H Amends various sees., Veh.C, re highways: local
     regulations.
  Prohibits application to any state highway included within the national system
of interstate and defense highways of new local ordinances prohibiting the use of
particular highways by certain vehicles, by commercial vehicles or other vehicles
with weight limitations, and by commercial vehicles exceeding specified weight
limits, except ordinances approved by the California Highway Commission by a
$ vote.
   Prohibits subsequent disapproval by the Department of Public Works of local
ordinances applying to any state highways included within the national system of
interstate and defense highways which ordinances prohibit the use of highways by
certain vehicles, by commercial vehicles or other vehicles with weight limitations,
and by commercial vehicles exceeding specified weight limits, until such disapproval
200                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

has been concurred in by the California Highway Commission by a f vote except
that for such ordinances which prohibit the use of particular highways by certain
vehicles and which were enacted prior to January 1, 1969, pursuant to specified
provision, requires that such disapproval be concurred in by both the local authority
and by a f vote of the California Highway Commission.
  Revises power of local authorities to adopt rules and regulations regarding ve-
hicles entering or crossing through highways.
   Deletes authorization of local authorities to adopt rules and regulations designat-
ing particular highways and one-way highways and requiring that all vehicles
thereon be moved in one specified direction.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 35712, Veh.C, proposed by AB 1254, to
he operative only upon enactment of AB 1254.
Ch. 1366 ( S B 1150) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 15517, E d . C , re fire safety.
  Includes the installation of protective and warning devices and intrusion alarms
as well as any purpose for which a fire marshal certifies the necessity as corrective
measures relating to fire and panic safety which the governing board of a school
district may undertake without complying with certain provisions concerned with
the repair, reconstruction, and replacement of school buildings.
  Extends operative effect of section from July 1, 1969, to July 1, 1971.
Ch. 1367 ( S B 1253) MOSCONE New act, re San Francisco Harbor.
    Grants and conveys state's interest in certain described lands (parts of Davis
S t r e e t ) , free of trust for purposes of navigation, commerce, and fisheries to the
City and County of San Francisco and requires Director of Finance to execute
and deliver to the city and county a deed or quitclaim deed thereto.
    Authorizes the city and county to bring or defend any action to establish title
to such lands against the state, or any agency thereof.
    Authorizes sale of such lands at a price equal to the fair market value of the
state's interest, determined as specified, and restricts use of the proceeds of such
sales to retire bonded indebtedness incurred for San Francisco Harbor improve-
ments for which the state is primarily liable.
Ch. 1368 (AB 140) T O W N S E N D Amends, amends and renumbers, adds, re-
     peals various sees., E d . C , re regional occupational centers.
  Authorizes county superintendent of schools, with approval of county board of
education, and governing board of school district, or joint powers governing board,
to certify to county auditor and county board of supervisors on or before August
10, rather than on or before July 15, the amount of money required to be raised
by tax for education of pupils attending regional occupational center or program
maintained by county superintendent of schools or by school district.
  Requires school districts to conduct job market survey with specified groups in
area which districts propose to establish regional occupational center or program.
  Makes any adjustment in the state apportionment allowance formula for a.d.a.
automatically applicable to districts participating in a regional occupational center
with respect to contributions to annual operating funds of center.
  Requires Department of Education to submit annual evaluation of regional occu-
pational centers and programs for the preceding fiscal year to Legislature, on or
before 30th legislative day of regular session.
  Rearranges various provisions relating to regional occupational centers.
  Makes related changes.
Ch. 1369 (AB 532) CROWN Amends Sec. 18709, Sec. 19568 as proposed to be
     added by SB 840, W. & I.C., re blind persons.
   Increases California Industries for the Blind contribution for each non-civil-
service production worker for health insurance from $6 to $8.
  Incorporates additional changes proposed by SB 840, to be operative only on
enactment of SB 840.
Ch. 1370 (AB 968) CRANDALL Amends Sec. 6904, Gov.C, and Sec. 19629,
     W. & I.C., as pi'oposed to be added by Senate Bill No. 840, re vending stands
     for blind.
   Requires that a sum equal to 4 percent of wages paid to a blind Or otherwise
disabled person hired after July 1, 1969, at vending stand be deducted from
service charge paid by operator, providing operator pays wages at least equal to
minimum wage required by Labor Code.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           201

  Incorporates additional changes proposed by S B 840, to be operative only upon
enactment of SB 840.
Ch. 1371 ( A B 978) M O O R H E A D Amends Sec. 13121, E d . C , re teacher's
     oaths.
   Revises oath to be taken by certificated employees by revising certain specific
affirmations and deleting requirement that employee promote specified goals by
precept and example.
Ch. 1372 (AB 1178) K N O X Adds, amends, * amends and renumbers, repeals
     various sees., Gov.C, re California Land Conservation Act.
   Revises the California Land Conservation Act of 1965 and provides that agri-
cultural land generally, rather than only prime agricultural land, may be re-
stricted to agricultural purposes by means of contracts between counties or cities
and private landowners. Deletes provisions providing for "agreements" between
entities of local government and owners of agricultural lands and provides for
restricting such land only by "contracts." Specifies that such contracts shall run
for an initial period of 10 years or more, rather than for 10 years, and deletes
provisions relating to payments of state funds to local government for conservation
and administration purposes pursuant to the act.
   Varies the procedures for establishing, altering the boundaries of, and abolishing
agricultural preserves and the procedures for the cancellation of contracts restrict-
ing land to agricultural uses and for the recording of such contracts. Removes mapy
of the functions performed by state agencies under the act.
   Specifies that a contract restricting land to agricultural purposes under the act
shall be an "enforceable restriction," as such term is used in the constitutional
provision relating to the assessment of open-space lands.
Ch. 1373 (AB 1530) L E R O Y F . G R E E N E Amends Sec. 8575, E d . C , re.
    graduation academic standards.
  Specifies time period of on or before July 1, 1970, for State Board of Education
to prepare and distribute model minimum academic standards for graduation to»
each school district maintaining a high school for its consideration.
Ch. 1374 ( S B 97) COLOGNE Adds Sec. 22123, W a t . C , re irrigation districts.
   Specifies that irrigation districts providing electric power to areas outside their
boundaries shall be subject to reasonable rules, regulations, and orders of the
governing body of the city or county areas being served, but, in no event, more,
restrictive than those imposed by the Public Utilities Commission upon utilities
providing such service. Provides no district may impose rates, rules, regulations, or
orders in such area different from those imposed within the district except with
consent of the governing body of the area.
Ch. 1375 ( S B 327) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 1, Ch. 497, Stats. 1959, re
     County of Marin tidelands.
   Specifies additional public purposes for which certain tidelands granted in t r u s t
to the County of Marin may be used, and makes related technical changes.
   Extends for 10 years the period within which such tidelands are required to be
improved, restored, preserved, or maintained by such county without expense to
the state.
Ch. 1376 ( S B 418) S H O R T Amends Sec. 22825, Gov.C, re Meyers-Geddes
     Act.
  Provides that the employer's contribution shall be the amount necessary to pay
the cost of the health benefits plan or plans, including the cost of enrollment of all
family members, rather than only the cost of a basic plan.
  Operative on the first day of the month following the month in which statutes
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session are effective,
Ch. 1377 ( S B 870) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 11008.7, W. & I.C., re public
    assistance.
  Provides that neither federal funds distributed to persons of California Indian
descent by P.L. 90-507 nor property derived therefrom be considered for any
purpose in determining any type of public assistance to needy persons.
  In effect immediately.
•Correction.
202                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 1378 ( S B 879) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 27178, S. & H.C., re state highways.
   Authorizes Department of Public Works to restrict any portion of state highways
within a bridge and highway district to a particular mode of vehicular transporta-
tion during such hours as the department, upon basis of engineering and traffic
investigation, determines such restriction would expedite the flow of traffic.
Oh. 1379 ( S B 1252) MO SCONE Adds Ch. 5.75 (commencing with Sec. 5766),
     Div. 6, E d . C , re non-English-speaking students.
   Directs Department of Education to develop and implement, in cooperation with
local school districts, a demonstration program in a selected county or city and
county designed to promote specified purposes with respect to providing bilingual
instruction for non-English-speaking students, to be administered by county super-
intendent of schools, or city superintendent of schools in the case of a city and
county. Requires department to provide for annual evaluation of programs adopted
pursuant to this act. Provides program terminates on July 1, 1972.
Oh. 1380 ( S B 1397) MOSCONE Adds Art. 14 (commencing with Sec. 429.30),
     Oh. 2, P t . 1, Div. 1, H. & S.C., re Indian health services.
   Requires State Department of Public Health to maintain program for Indians
and their families. Enumerates activities of program.
   Appropriates from General Fund $32,117 to State Department of Public Health
for expenditure by department during 1969-1970 fiscal year pursuant to provisions
enacted by this act.
Ch. 1381 (AB 284) BADHAM Adds Sec. 21382.5, Gov.C, re Public Employ-
    ees' Retirement System.
  Includes within definition of dependent children, for purposes of survivorship
benefits, full-time students under the age" of 22.
Ch. 1382 ( A B 324) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 14376, and Sec. 14226 as pro-
      posed by AB 1728, E d . C , re State Teachers' Retirement Law.
   Permits retired member of State Teachers' Retirement System to be employed as
a substitute requiring certification qualifications, or as a substitute requiring cer-
tification qualifications in the California School for the Deaf or California School
for the Blind, without interruption of retirement benefits or reinstatement into
system if payment does not exceed $4,000, rather than $2,500, in a fiscal year.
   Incorporates same changes to Sec. 14226, as proposed by AB 1728, to be opera-
tive upon enactment of AB 1728.
Ch. 1383 ( A B 356) DAVIS Adds Sec. 3566.3, Elec.C, re analysis of measures.
  Requires the Legislative Analyst to prepare an analysis of measures submitted
to voters if, in his opinion, they involve additional cost. Provides that if the
measure is one requiring a substantial increase in state costs the analysis is to
contain an estimate of its cost and specify the method of financing it. Specifies
the length of the analysis and requires it to be printed in the ballot pamphlet.
   Declares that act to become inoperative if A B No. 1283 is enacted.
Ch. 1384 ( A B 564) THOMAS Amends and repeals various sees., F . & G.O.,
     re taking of sardines.
   Provides that sardines may be taken for bait up to specified amounts under per-
mits issued by department rather than limit such taking to amount contained
incidentally in loads or lots having 15 percent or less sardines by weight.
   Limits use of sardines incidentally taken to canning, preserving, and reduction.
   Provides department shall keep records and shall notify permittees when limi-
tation will be reached.
   Provides sardines taken incidentally shall only be used for canning and reduc-
tion rather than include use for bait.
   Deletes certain load limitation for sardines.
   Deletes requirement that fish mixed with sardines when delivered to packer are
to be included in percentage of sardines received by packer during calendar month.
   Makes related changes.
   Requires Department of Fish and Game to prepare a comprehensive master in-
ventory and preliminary master plan, as specified, for utilization of all ocean fish
resources from existing scientific information, for the purpose of providing future
programs for the management and proper use of all ocean fish resources, and to
complete and submit such to the Legislature not later than the fifth legislative
day of the 1971 Regular Session. Requires department to prepare a first phase
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         203 '

inventory from all available studies of the pelagic wet fish and related species
resources, and to present such to the Legislature "not later than the fifth legislative
day of the 1970 Eegular Session.
Oh. 1385 ( A B 643) Q U I M B Y Amends Sec. 26155, Gov.C, re county con-
     tributions.
   Permits county board of supervisors to authorize and provide for contributions
to nonprofit educational radio as well as television stations.
Ch. 1386 (AB 950) D U F F Y Adds Sec. 14124, W. & I.C., re medical assistance.
   Provides that notice of suspension for cause by the director from further par-
ticipation under Medi-Cal of a licensed, certified or registered provider of services
be sent to the appropriate state agency. Provides that no action taken by such state
agency shall have any effect upon a suspension. Authorizes the director to provide
information obtained as a result of its investigation to the appropriate state
agency.
   Defines "suspension" as a final suspension after all administrative and judicial
remedies are exhausted.
Ch. 1387 (AB 961) C H A P P I E Adds Sees. 146 and 147, L a b . C , re industrial
     safety board.
   Provides for time, place, and notice of quarterly meetings to be held by Indus-
trial Safety Board.
   Provides that board, at quarterly meetings, shall make time available to inter-
ested persons to propose new or revised orders appropriate for adoption p u r s u a n t
t6 certain hearing procedures of the Division of Industrial Safety. Provides t h a t
the board shall consider issuing such proposed orders by no later than its next
quarterly meeting.
Ch. 1388 (AB 1165) CORY Amends Sec. 13599.2, E d . C , re special educational
     programs.
   Modifies prohibition against utilization of instructional aides to increase t h e
number of pupils in relation to the number of classroom teachers in special edu-
cation programs in any school, school district, or in the state, to make a n excep-
tion to allow class size ratios existing prior to November 13, 1968, in special edu-
cation classes to be maintained or decreased.
   Authorizes school district governing boards to designate these positions by an
appropriate title other than "instructional aide."
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1389 ( A B 1278) B U R K E Amends Sec. 3507.5, Gov.C, re public employee
     organizations.
   Declares that provision of law authorizing public agencies to adopt rules and
regulations restricting management and confidential employees from representing
employee organizations on matters of employment relations, does not otherwise
limit the right of employees to belong to or hold office in employee organizations.
Ch. 1390 (AB 1350) M I L I A S Amends Sec. 393, M. & V.C., re military per-
     sonnel.
  Makes provision affording indemnification of public employees re judgments against
them applicable to active members of the militia and members of the militia in
active service pursuant to an order of the President of the United States as a
result of a state of emergency, if such active member or person is not indemnified
by the federal government.
Ch. 1391 (AB 1374) F O N G Adds Sec. 11479.5, E d . C , re school attendance.
   Provides that attendance of pupils at junior college summer schools be credited
to district in fiscal year in which last day of summer school falls.
   Provides that July 21, 1969, may be deemed to be a regular day of school
attendance for certain specified purposes and a.d.a. for that date shall be deemed
to be the actual attendance for July 22, 1969.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1392 (AB 1387) B E V E R L Y Amends Sees. 16859, 16860, E d . C , re school-
     bus transportation.
  Permits the governing board of a school district to use schoolbuses, or contract
with other school districts or with the county superintendent, to provide trans-
portation in connection with any school-related activities conducted, rather t h a n
204                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

limit the use of schoolbuses to teachers, school personnel and adults assisting in
the supervision of pupils ; and affords like authority to county superintendents.
   Determines that the transportation provided by the governing board of a school
district or by the county superintendent of schools may be for their respective
employees, one adult person related to each such employee as may be designated
by the governing board or by the county superintendent, as the case may be, and
volunteer adults who are officially assisting in the supervision of pupils.
Ch. 1393 (AB 1394) B R I G G S Adds Ch. 13 (commencing with Sec. 25970) y
     Div. 20, H. & S.O., re dogs.
   Enacts Dog Act of 1969. Defines "sentry dog," "narcotic detection dog," "tracker
or attack dog," "sentry dog company," and "dog handler" for purposes of act.
   Requires each dog subject to act to wear identification tag, as specified, a t all
times, and, whenever transported, to be well secured to prevent possible escape.
Makes provision for registration of dogs handled by sentry dog company.
   Requires specified dog handler to visit each dog subject to act, when dog is on
actual duty, at least once each 12 hours to examine adequacy of specified condi-
tions, and to correct if inadequate.
   Makes violation of act punishable by fine of $100.
Ch. 1394 (AB 1547) Z E N O V I C H Amends Sees. 19124, 19132.3, 19150, H. &
     S.C., re earthquake protection for buildings.
   Deletes fee schedule for certain building permits and certain restrictions on
prescribing fees, and authorizes governing body of city or county to prescribe
fees generally to cover expenses incurred by its enforcement agency in issuance of
such permit. Specifies that, if enforcement agency is Department of Housing and
Community Development, the Commission of Housing and Community Develop-
ment may establish schedule of fees to pay cost of administration and enforcement.
   Makes technical changes.
Ch. 1395 ( A B 1564) FONG Amends Sec. 13456, E d . C , re leaves of absence.
  Requires rather than permits school district governing board to provide leaves
of absence for pregnancy and convalescence following childbirth and to adopt
reasonable rules and regulations regarding such leaves of absence.
Ch. 1396 (AB 1746) B A D H A M New act, re California Districts Securities
     Commission.
   Abolishes California Districts Securities Commission and transfers the powers,
duties and responsibilities heretofore exercised by the commission pursuant to any
provision of law to the State Treasurer upon the date the Governor's Reorganiza-
tion Plan No. 1 becomes operative. Authorizes State Treasurer to create a board
to assist him in carrying out such powers, duties and responsibilities.
Ch. 1397 (AB 1877) CORY Amends Sec. 16803, E d . C , re school transporta-
     tion.
  Makes continuing contracts for transportation of pupils renewable at option
of district and the contractor, jointly, a t a rate not more than 5 percent above
rate currently set under the existing contract rather than provides such contracts
to be renewable at the option of the school district at a rate not more than 5
percent above the rate of the existing contract.
Ch. 1398 (AB 1828) M I L I A S Adds Sec. 24010, Gov.C, re coroners.
  Provides that counties may abolish the office of coroner and provide for office
of medical examiner to perform same functions. Requires t h a t medical examiner
be a licensed pathologist.
Ch. 1399 ( A B 1913) STTJLL Adds Sec. 1624.3, amends Sees. 408, 1622.5,
     R. & T.C., re assessment and equalization procedures.
   Provides that an assessee of property or his designated representative shall be
permitted to inspect an assessor's records with respect to the appraisal of his
property, rather than limiting such inspection to an assessee. Requires an assessor
to provide an assessee with data relating to sales of comparable property, if an
assessment is based, in whole or in part, on such sales.
   Permits the person affected by an equalization proceeding or his agent, or the
assessor, to challenge peremptorily one member on an assessment appeals board,
and provides that the member so challenged shall not sit for purposes of equaliz-
ing the value of the property in question. Permits the appointment of additional
alternate members to sit on such boards.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          205

Ch. 1400 (AB 1956) B U R T O N Adds Sec. 24, Ch. 1333, Stats. 1968, re S a a
     Francisco Harbor.
  Provides that no amendment, modification, in whole or in part, of the transfer
of lands in trust provided for in act authorizing transfer in trust of state's
interest in, and control of. San Francisco Harbor to City and County of San
Francisco, shall impair or affect the rights or obligations of specified third parties.
Specifies rights and duties in event of any such amendment, modification, or
revocation.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1401 ( S B 421) R O D D A Amends Sees. 13189, 13190, 13191.1, and 13192,
      E d . C , re teachers' credentials.
   Alters course requirements for diversified major for purposes of standard teaching
credential with specialization in elementary teaching by reducing the total semester
hours from 88 to 84 by requiring 19 to 23, rather than a minimum of 21, semester
hours of enumerated areas of study.
   Provides that a California state college, rather than the Trustees of the Cali-
fornia State Colleges upon recommendation of the chancellor, may allow a major
in education if such major meets the requirements of the diversified major and
such courses are taken in the several academic schools or departments other t h a n
education or educational methodology.
   Authorizes district governing board maintaining grades 7, 8, and 9 to permit
holder of standard teaching credential with a specialization in elementary teaching
to teach in a departmentalized class in such grades any subject in which he has
nine semester hours of upper division of graduate coursework.
   Permits holder of standard teaching credential with specialization in secondary
teaching to teach subjects, under certain circumstances when authorized, in which-
he has completed 18 or more semester hours of coursework or nine semester hours
of upper division or graduate coursework, rather than only when he has completed
18 or more semester hours of coursework.
   Extends to September 30, 1970, rather than 1969, termination date of provisions
revising minimum requirements for standard teaching credential with a specializa-
tion in secondary teaching to allow the granting of such credential without the
fifth year of preparation if the applicant states in writing that he intends to com-
plete such requirement within five years, if a school district states that the appli-
cant will be employed in such district and if the county board of education has
found and declares a shortage of teachers exists in the district in the teaching
field or in the teaching field of the applicant's major or minor; and requiring
State Board of Education to establish guidelines by which county board of educa-
tion can determine teacher shortages.
Ch. 1402 (AB 267) K N O X Amends Sees. 4800, 4801, 4802, and 4803, L a b . C ,
     re workmen's compensation : enforcement personnel.
   Provides for leave of absence with full salary for not more than one year, in
lieu of payments for temporary disability, in cases of members of the Bureau of
Narcotic Enforcement, and the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investiga-
tion of the Department of Justice falling within the "law enforcement" class, who
suffer disabilities arising out of and in the course of their duties. Eliminates ref-
erence to illness as a disability for which leave of absence in lieu of temporary
disability is authorized for such members and members of the California Highway
Patrol. Specifies that certain employees of the Bureaus of Narcotic Enforcement
or Criminal Identification and Investigation are ineligible for such leave of absence
with full salary.
   Makes technical nonsubstantive changes.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sees. 4800, 4801, 4802, and 4803, L a b . C ,
proposed by AB 864, to be operative upon enactment of AB 864.
Ch. 1403 (AB 970) RAY E. J O H N S O N Adds Art. 4 (commencing with Sec.
     24561), Ch. 1, P t . 1, Div. 12, Ag.C, re poultry regulations and inspections.
  Authorizes Director of Agriculture to adopt by regulation standards and require-
ments, as specified, equal to those of the federal Poultry Products Inspection Act,
but not to be less restrictive than state statutory requirements. Authorizes director
to enter into cooperative agreements with federal agencies to enforce such stand-
ards and requirements. Specifies certain poultry regulations to conform, so far as
practicable, to those of United States Department of Agriculture. Requires owners
or operator of establishments to defray the additional cost for salaries and ex-
    206                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

    penses where state inspection of specified poultry operations is maintained         at
    hours considered overtime for state employees.
      In effect immediately.
    Ch. 1404 (AB 974) F O R A N Adds chapter heading immediately preceding Sec.
        13975 of, and adds Oh. 2 (commencing with Sec. 13990) to P t . 4.5, Div. 3,
        Title 2, Gov.C, re transportation policy.                   4
      Creates State Transportation Board in Business and Transportation Agency
    and prescribes its powers and duties.
    Ch. 1405 ( S B 541) H A R M E R Adds Sec. 24053.1, E d . C , re state colleges:
         appropriations.
      Requires president of each state college to present to Trustees of the California
    State Colleges within 90 days after end of 1969-1970 fiscal year a report which
    compares in detail, as determined by the trustees, Legislative Analyst, and De-
    partment of Finance, the actual expenditures by the state college with the state
    funds appropriated therefor by Budget Act or other appropriation measures for
    such fiscal year within the expenditure classifications for which state funds were
    appropriated. Requires president to present list of deviations of actual expendi-
    tures from the appropriations, with an explanation in required detail of each
    deviation. Requires trustees to present to Legislature and to Legislative Analyst by
    November 1, 1970, a description of relationship between appropriations to, and
    actual expenditures of, the state colleges during the 1969-1970 fiscal year.
    Ch. 1406 ( S B 542) H A R M E R Adds Sees. 23620, 24053.1, 24053.2 and 24053.3,
            E d . C , re state colleges : audit.
        Provides that the Trustees of the California State Colleges shall establish an
    internal audit staff to report to and be available to the trustees for consultation.
        Specifies duties of the internal audit staff.
        Authorizes Trustees of the California State Colleges to approve any transfer
    of funds within functions for which funds are appropriated annually for the
    support of the state colleges and to augment the amount available for a category
1
    designated in any schedule for such appropriation by transfer from any of the
    other designated categories. Requires report of such transfers or augmentation to
    J o i n t Legislative Budget Committee. Authorizes trustees to approve substitution
    of one item of equipment for another within budgetary functions and to approve
    travel and payment of allowances and expenses related to travel. Authorizes
    trustees to establish new employee positions and make changes in existing positions
    and makes provisions regarding reporting of such positions and changes.
        Expresses legislative intent regarding financial affairs of state colleges.
        Requires trustees to provide for an annual audit procedure and authorizes trustees
    to employ necessary personnel to conduct annual audit.
    Ch. 1407 ( S B 1305) B U R G E N E R Amends Sees. 18060 and 18062, E d . C , re
         public school transportation.
      Requires withholding from state apportionments to school districts for reim-
    bursement for transportation of pupils with certain described handicaps to where
    the Superintendent of Public Instruction determines that the current expense of
    providing such transportation does not equal or exceed the allowance provided for
    such purpose. Provides for apportionment of amount withheld to districts maintain-
    ing and operating vehicles exclusively for handicapped pupils.
    Ch. 1408 ( A B 53) LEROY F . G R E E N E Amends, adds, repeals various sees.,
         headings, E d . C , re public school testing programs.
      Establishes a state testing program and redefines terms used in the chapter on '
    testing programs.
      Provides the State Board of Education shall require a minimum testing pro-
    gram in all school districts.
       Requires the governing board of a school district to provide the State Board
    of Education with the result of any state testing program, except physical per-
    formance tests, with a specified exception.
      Deletes requirement that State Board of Education adopt minimum academic
    standards for pupils in grades 6, 8 and 12, and makes related technical changes,
    and deletes requirement that tests be administered for pupils in grades 6, 8 and 12.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         207

  Requires that results of tests administered under the Miller-Unruh Basic Beading
Act'be included in the district-by-district report submitted by the State Department
of Education to the State Board of Education and each district containing the •
results of certain testing programs.
Oh. 1409 ( S B 1148) R O D D A Amends Sees. 29007, 29007.3, 29007.5, and
     29018.5, E d . C , re private educational institutions.
  Transfers duties of Bureau of Readjustment Education, in relation to private
educational institutions, to Department of Education generally and to Superintend-
ent of Public Instruction.
Ch. 1410 (AB 2076) A S S E M B L Y C O M M I T T E E ON LOCAL G O V E R N M E N T
    Amends various sees., Gov.C, re county officers.
  Changes annual compensation of various county officers.
Ch. 1411 ( S B 679) C O L L I E R Amends Sec. 27149, S. & H.C., and Sec. 28153,
     Gov.C, re public officers.
   Increases per diem for directors from $25 to $50. Limits the per diem to a
maximum of $2,400 per year, rather than providing t h a t directors may not be paid
for attending more than four board or committee meetings in any one calendar
month.
   Increases salary of Trinity County supervisors from $300 to $450 per month.
Ch. 1412 ( S B 66) S H E R M A N Amends Sec. 1042, Evid.C, re admissibility of
     informant communications.
   Authorizes, in criminal proceedings generally, rather than only those involving
violations of narcotics laws, admission of any otherwise admissible evidence of
information communicated to peace officer by informant who is not a material
witness to guilt or innocence of accused of offense charge, without disclosure
of identity of informant, for purpose of showing reasonable cause for making
an arrest or search, if judge or magistrate is satisfied upon evidence produced out
of presence of jury, in open court, that such information was received from
reliable informant and in his discretion does not require such disclosure.
   Requires court hearing, out of presence of the jury, if any, when witness invokes
this privilege and a party demands disclosure of the identity of the informant on the
ground the informant is a material witness on the issue of guilt. Requires, under
specified circumstances, in camera hearing outside of presence of defendant and
counsel if prosecuting attorney so requests, and provides t h a t only a court may
have access to evidence presented at such hearing.
   Provides that court will not order disclosure, strike testimony of witness who
invokes privilege, or dismiss proceeding if party offering witness refuses to disclose
identity of informant, unless, based upon evidence presented a t court hearing and
in camera hearing, court concludes that there is reasonable possibility that non-
disclosure might deprive defendant of fair trial.
Ch. 1413 ( A B 1209) P A T T E E Amends, adds, renumbers, and repeals various
     sees., Ag.C, re pesticides.
   Deletes provisions making it unlawful for any person, in connection with sale or
paid advice, to make recommendations re agricultural use of an economic poison
other than recommendations on label or in supplementary printed directions, unless
such recommendations are in writing, delivered to customer by time of delivery or
use of poison.
   Provides that, before pesticide application is made, the applicator shall be in
possession of written recommendation showing the owner or operator, acreage t a
be treated, date, name and dosage rate of pesticide, pests to be controlled, crops
or property to be treated and name, address, company or business he represents,
signature of person making recommendation and any suggested schedule or time
for pesticide application.
   Requires party signing a written recommendation to deliver or cause to be
delivered copy to agricultural commissioner in county where application is to be
made, when requested, in addition to delivering it to customer (as required by
existing law) or his agent, or accompany the material on delivery.
   Provides farmer or person not subject to law requiring agricultural pest control
license may apply pesticide without written recommendation provided he maintains
208                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

specified records, but such application creates rebuttable presumption of his responsi-
bility for recommendation of such application and for specified required information.
   Provides that person making written recommendation does not incur obligation
insuring actual application follows his recommendation.
Oh. 1414 ( A B 1210) P A T T E E Amends, adds various sees., and chs., Ag.C, re
     agricultural pest control business.
   Defines "agricultural pest control agents" and "pesticide dealers."
   Declares the commercial production of plant and animal crops shall be defined
in rules and regulations required by this statute.
   Requires that every person, with certain exceptions, who engages in business as
a pesticide dealer be licensed by the Director of Agriculture and regulates the
conduct of their business as a pesticide dealer^
   Requires that every person who engages in business as an agricultural pest
control agent with certain exceptions be registered with the county commissioner
of agriculture, or the director if there is no county commissioner of agriculture,
and regulates the conduct of their business as agricultural pest control agents.
   Provides provisions of this act shall not become operative until January 1, 1970.
Ch. 1415 ( S B 428) K E N N I C K Amends Sees. 1821, 1825, 1826, repeals Sec.
     1827, W. & I.C., re Youth Authority.
   Requires periodic reports by Department of the Youth Authority on the ex-
periences and results of state aid for probation services to the Legislature;
eliminates restrictions on who may be placed in special supervision programs;
broadens provisions for reimbursement under unusual circumstances; permits in-
terpolation of the payment table to the nearest l / 1 0 t h of 1% of reduction in com-
mitment rate. Deletes section limiting effect of the law to the 91st day after final
adjournment of the 1969 Regular Session.
   Specifies that the act be called and may be cited as the Arnold-Bee-Kennick Act.
   Appropriates $200,000 to the Department of the Youth Authority for allocation
pursuant to law to county delinquency prevention commissions, for research in
delinquency and crime prevention, and for training special workers.
Ch. 1416 ( S B 847) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 13600, adds Sec. 13601, W. &
     I.C., re relatives' responsibility, disabled persons.
   Provides that parents shall provide normal household needs of recipient of aid
to the disabled living with them as long as it does not add appreciably to family
expenses, and that such support shall be considered in determining such aid.
   Appropriates amount equal to savings resulting under this act not to exceed one
million dollars, as determined by the Department of Finance, to the State Depart-
ment of Social Welfare for payment for care of mentally retarded recipients of
aid to the disabled who are in private institutions.
Oh. 1417 ( S B 857) DETJKMEJIAN Amends Sec. 11351 and adds Sec. 11351.5,
     W. & I.C., re aid to dependent children.
  Requires that unrelated adult male, except a bona fide paying lodger, roomer or
boarder, who resides with family applying for or receiving aid to families with
dependent children pay to family an amount equal to his support cost in accordance
with standards set by Department of Social Welfare. Requires him and mother of
family to present facts of their sharing of expenses agreement under penalty of
perjury to department or aid to the family may be discontinued.
Oh. 1418 ( A B 1351) K E T C H U M Adds Art. 1.5 (commencing with Sec.
     11025), Ch. 1, P t . 3, Div. 9, W. & I.C., re public assistance.
  Enacts the Intergovernmental Welfare Management and Information Systems
Act of 1969 providing that the Department of Social Welfare develop efficient,
highly automated processes for determining eligibility and making aid payments and
develop an integrated welfare management information system, and prescribes the
procedure therefor.
   Requires the department to formulate a plan to implement the provisions of the
act and to submit such plan to the State Electronic Data Processing Policy
Committee for review and to the Intergovernmental Board on Electronic Data
Processing for adoption.
  Appropriates $108,000 from the General Fund for purposes of the act.
  To have no force and effect after July 1, 1974, or such earlier date as may be
determined by Governor.
  In effect immediately.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           209

Ch. 1419 (AB 1454) A S S E M B L Y C O M M I T T E E ON H E A L T H AND W E L -
     F A R E Adds Sec. 14103.2, W. & I.C., re medical assistance.
  Specifies that when the Director of the Department of Health Care Services
determines that the services or products of a provider cost the program more than
their reasonable value, the provider shall be disqualified from participation in the
program, but that no provider shall be denied reimbursement on such basis unless
provided a public hearing.
Ch. 1420 (AB 1460) D U F F Y Repeals and adds Sec. 14117, W. & I.O., re med-
     ical assistance.
   Makes provisions of Labor Code relating to recovery by state of workmen's com-
pensation benefits conferred, through prosecuting actions or filing liens, also appli-
cable to Cal-Med program respecting recovery from persons responsible for condi-
tions requiring medical assistance.
Ch. 1421 (AB 789) S T U L L Adds Ch. 5 (commencing with Sec. 436.50),
      P t . 1, Div. 1, H . & S.C., re public health.
   Requires, on or before July 1, 1970, State Board of Public Health to adopt such,
rules and regulations to be used in approval of laboratories engaged in perform-
ance of tests of blood, urine, breath, or tissue for purposes of determining concen-
tration of ethyl alcohol in blood of persons involved in traffic accidents or in traffic
violations, including qualifications of employees of such laboratories who perform
such tests, and governing the operations of such laboratories as it determines are
reasonably necessary to insure competence of such laboratories and employees.
Requires that rules and regulations also establish procedures to be used by law en-
forcement agencies in administering breath tests for purpose of determining con-
centration of ethyl alcohol in blood.
   Requires on or after January 1, 1971, the testing by or for law enforcement
agencies of breath, blood, urine, or tissue for the purpose of determining concen-
tration of ethyl alcohol in blood of persons involved in traffic accidents" or in traffic
violations to be performed by a laboratory approved and licensed by State Director
of Public Health. Requires all laboratories which perform such tests be licensed by
and, except for laboratories operated by public agencies, pay fee to State Depart-
ment of Public Health in amount determined by State Board of Health,
not to exceed $100, as will reimburse department for costs incurred in such licens-
ing, upon application for licensing and annual renewal fee of like amount thereafter.
   Requires testing of breath samples by or for law enforcement agencies for pur-
poses of determining concentration of ethyl alcohol in blood of persons involved in
traffic accidents or in traffic violations to be performed in accordance with regula-
tions adopted by board.
   Requires, on or after January 1, 1971, State Department of Public Health to
enforce such rules and regulations and publish annually a list of approved and li-
censed laboratories.
   Requires periodic inspection of every licensed laboratory by a representative of
State Department of Public health and that report be filed with department.
   Provides for suspension, revocation and reinstatement of such licenses under
specified circumstances.
Ch. 1422 ( A B 1971) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 17911, adds Pt. 6 (commencing
     with Sec. 19960), Div. 13, H. & S.C., re factory-built housing.
   Enacts "California Factory-Built Housing Law." Sets forth provisions relating
to regulation of construction and installation of factory-built housing, as defined.
Ch. 1423 ( S B 674) WAY Amends Sees. 8523, 12080.2, 12080.5, 12081.2, Gov.C,
     re executive reorganization.
   Provides Governor must submit executive reorganization plans to Commission on
California State Government Organization and Economy at least 30 days prior to
submission of such plans to the Legislature and to the Legislative Counsel for
drafting assistance and a digest prior to that.
   Requires Governor to submit reorganization plans to Legislature in, as nearly as
practicable, bill form.
   Provides reorganization plan may provide for effective date later than first day
after final day of session at which plan introduced.
   Specifies that either house of Legislature must act by a majority vote of the
duly elected and qualified members thereof to prevent a plan from taking effect and
that either house may find such plan in need of further study and may assign
such plan for study to a committee.
 210                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

    Extends authority of Governor to submit reorganization plans from December
 31, 1969, to December 31, 1971.
 Ch. 1424 ( A B 534) M U K P H Y Adds Ch. 1 (commencing with Sec. 626), Title
      15, P t . 1, adds Sec. 415.5, repeals Sees. 602.7, 602.9, P e n . C , re school dis-
      turbances.
    Includes junior colleges in provisions presently making it a misdemeanor to fail
 to leave state college or university property when ordered to do so by an admin-
 istrative officer or designee under specified circumstances. Removes junior colleges
 from, and adds other specified educational facilities to, provisions presently making it
 a misdemeanor to refuse to leave the area of an elementary or secondary school
 when ordered to do so under specified circumstances. Includes willful and knowing
 reentry within 72 hours in both such misdemeanors. Provides that first conviction
 of each such misdemeanor is punishable by fine not exceeding $500, by imprisonment
 for not more than 6 months, or both.
    Makes it a misdemeanor for a person to disturb the peace or quiet, maliciously
 and willfully, of any state college, state university, or junior college, as defined,
 by specified activity. Provides for fine not exceeding $200 or jail term for not
 exceeding 90 days, or both, upon first conviction.
    Makes it a misdemeanor for student or employee of junior college, state college,
 or state university who has been suspended or dismissed for disrupting orderly
 operation of such institution and as a condition of such suspension or dismissal has
 been denied access to such institution for period of suspension, or in case of dis-
 missal for not more than 1 year, to willfully and knowingly enter campus or facility
 of such institution without permission of chief administrative officer if student or
 employee has been served by mail with written notice of suspension or dismissal
and condition. Knowledge is presumed if such notice has been given. Makes it a
misdemeanor for person who has been notified by chief administrative officer of
junior college, state college, or state university that consent to remain on campus
 or facility of such institution has been withdrawn pursuant to specified provision
of law to willfully and knowingly enter or remain on such campus or facility
during period for which consent is withdrawn if the person has not been reinstated.
Provides that first conviction of each such misdemeanor is punishable by fine not
exceeding $500, by imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or both.
    Provides that, if defendant has been previously convicted once of any of misde-
meanors mentioned above, conviction of any such misdemeanor is punishable by
imprisonment for not less than 10 days or more than 6 months or by both such
imprisonment and fine not exceeding $500; and, if defendant has been previously
convicted two or more times of any of such misdemeanors, conviction of any such
misdemeanor is punishable by imprisonment for not less than 90 days or more
than 6 months or by both such imprisonment and fine not exceeding $500. Provides
in either case that defendant shall not be released on probation, parole, or any
other basis until he has served minimum term of imprisonment specified.
   Makes provision concerning the use and probative value of Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation reports in connection with prior convictions.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1425 ( A B 859) M O O R H E A D Adds Sec. 3306, W. & I.C., re California
     Rehabilitation Center.
   Provides that the Director of Corrections may authorize the temporary removal,
under custody, for a period not longer than one day, of persons confined in the Cali-
fornia Rehabilitation Center or branches, for the purpose of employing said per-
son in work connected with the center, or for cooperating voluntarily in medical
research, or for participating in delinquency prevention programs. Provides also
that director may authorize removal of inmates, not under custody for purposes of
furnishing medical treatment not available a t the center for purposes preparatory
to release, or for participating in conservation camp programs.
Ch. 1426 ( A B 1161) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Amends Sec. 6873, P.R.C., re oil and
     gas leases.
   Requires State Lands Commission to include in oil and gas leases of tide or
submerged lands or beds of navigable rivers or lakes a provision prohibiting all
impairment of, and interference with, developed shoreline recreational or residen-
tial areas.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          211

Ch. 1427 (AB 1286) * S U B C O M M I T T E E ON E D U C A T I O N A L E N V I R O N -
      M E N T Adds various sees, and chs., E d . C , re colleges and universities.
   Requires chief administrative officer of public junior college, state college, or
state university, as defined, after hearing, to take appropriate disciplinary action
against any student, faculty member, support staff member, or administration
member, convicted of a crime arising out of a campus disturbance, or found to have
willfully disrupted the orderly operation of the campus. Provides that such provi-
sions shall not be construed to prohibit, where an immediate suspension is required
in order to protect lives or property and to insure the maintenance of order, interim
suspension pending a hearing; provided that a reasonable opportunity be afforded
the suspended person for a hearing within 10 days.
   Authorizes chief administrative officer of any state university, state college, or
junior college to declare a "state of emergency" whenever any of specified condi-
tions exists on or near campus which is, or may be, beyond college capabilities.
Authorizes reimbursement at specified rate through Department of Finance, when-
ever money is appropriated for the purpose and in accordance with conditions of
appropriation, by state of police or sheriff's costs in providing requested assistance,
after $100,000, in the aggregate, in costs have been sustained in any three-
consecutive-month period. Requires Department of Finance to determine costs.
States that it is not intended to obligate the state to reimburse for such costs.
These provisions to terminate 91st day after 1971 Regular Session.
   Requires University of California Regents, state college trustees, and junior
college governing boards to adopt and distribute rules and regulations governing
student behavior.
    Provides that recipient of state financial aid, as defined, who is public or private
university or college student is deemed to have agreed to school's rules and
regulations. Provides any such recipient who on campus commits any act likely
to disrupt the peaceful conduct of the campus activities, and is convicted of a
public offense arising from such acts, may be determined to be ineligible for
such aid for not to exceed ensuing 2 academic years.
   Provides that any recipient who, after a hearing, is found to have willfully and
knowingly disrupted orderly operation of campus may be determined to be in-
eligible for such aid for period hearing board determines, not to exceed 2 academic
years.
   Provides that recipient who is suspended from an institution of higher educa-
tion for such acts shall be ineligible for aid for period not less than suspension.
   Provides for hearing and notice procedures. Requires findings of the hearing
board to be in writing.
   Declares disruption in higher education to be matter of statewide concern.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1428 (SB 4) R I C H A R D S O N Adds Sec. 9619, Gov.C, re construction of
     statutes.
  States that it is intent of Legislature to occupy whole field of regulation of
registration or licensing of commercially manufactured firearms as encompassed
by specified provisions, and that such provisions are exclusive of all local regulations
relating to such field of regulation by any of specified political subdivisions.
Ch. 1429 ( S B 29) H A R M E R Amends Sec. 14790, Gov.C, re purchases.
  Exempts state colleges as well as University of California from purchasing
supervision of Department of General Services for purchases not exceeding $500.
Ch. 1430 (SB 57) G R U N S K Y Amends Sec. 6871.2, adds Sec. 6826.1, P.R.C.,
     re tideland leases and permits.
  Changes boundary of specified area in Monterey County within which state-
owned tide and submerged lands may not be leased for oil and gas purposes except
under specified conditions to include all tide and submerged lands area in
Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties.
  Provides that State Lands Commission shall not permit the taking of cores or
other samples by means of drilling operations on or under such tide or submerged
lands or on tide or submerged lands of specified portion of coast of Pacific Ocean,
and specifies that any permit issued by the commission for the conduct of geological
or geophysical surveys on such lands shall contain a provision expressly prohibiting
the taking of cores or samples, subject to specified exceptions.
* Correction.
212                 1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1431 ( S B 108) A L Q F I S T Amends heading of Ch. 5 (commencing with Sec.
     13960), P t . 4, Div. 3, adds article heading preceding Sec. 13960, adds Art. 2
      (commencing with Sec. 13970), P t . 4, Div. 3, Gov.C, repeals Title 5 (com-
      mencing with Sec. 13600), Pt. 4, P e n . C , re indemnification of private citizens.
   Permits indemnification to private citizen for damages suffered while rescuing a
person from immediate danger of injury or death as a result of fire, drowning, or
other catastrophe to the extent that he is not compensated for the damages from
any other source.
   Makes technical changes.
   Incorporates additional changes made with respect to indemnification of private
eitizens proposed by SB 368, to be operative only upon enactment of SB 368.
Ch. 1432 ( S B 220) T E A L E Amends Sec. 767, E d . C , re county superintend-
     ents of schools.
  Raises statewide average of teachers' salaries from $8,582 to $9,720 for purposes
of computing salaries of county superintendents' salaries. Raises state portion of
salary of county superintendent 4 percent in counties of classes one to five and
2 percent in counties of classes six to eight.
Ch. 1433 ( S B 767) RODDA Amends Sec. 13655, E d . C , re classified school
     employees.
  Provides that a classified employee of a school district who transfers to another
district shall have accumulated unused sick leave transferred with him rather
than transferring accumulated unused sick leave and other benefits only if the
district transferred to agrees. Requires that transfer shall be in the same manner
as provided for certificated employees.
  Makes section applicable to school districts who have adopted the merit system.
Ch. 1434 ( S B 795) WAY Amends Sec. 18054.6, E d . C , re schools: transporta-
     tion allowances.
   Provides that eligible school districts, rather than eligible unified school districts
formed under specified provisions, shall be provided special additional transportation
allowance for sparsely populated areas if Superintendent of Public Instruction
determines that the transportation expense of the district for the preceding fiscal
year is substantially affected by sparsity of population.
Ch. 1435 ( S B 844) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 4322, B . & P.O., re prophy-
    lactics.
  Revises provisions relating to the display and advertising of prophylactics.
Ch. 1436 ( S B 871) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 1014, Evid.C, adds Sec. 2907.5
      and Art. 9 (commencing with Sec. 2995), Ch. 6.6, Div. 2, B. & P.O., re pro-
      fessional corporations: psychologists.
   Authorizes persons certified as psychologists by Psychology Examining Com-
mittee of Board of Medical Examiners of the State of California to incorporate into
professional corporation. Specifies such corporation is entitled to practice psy-
chology.
   Specifies procedure for incorporation, filing of required reports, duties, and
liabilities of such corporation.
   Specifies that Psychology Examining Committee shall administer provisions and
may formulate and enforce rules and regulations to carry out purposes and
objectives of such provisions.
   Specifies that relationship of psychotherapist and patient shall exist between
psychological corporation and patient receiving services for purposes of pro-
visions relating to privileged communications.
Ch. 1437 ( S B 886) C O L L I E R Adds Sec. 42275, Veh.C, re Motor Vehicle
     Fund.
   Authorizes State Controller, at any time after the 20th day of January of each
calendar year, to transfer moneys from Motor Vehicle Fund to State Highway
Fund for specified purpose, and requires that such transfers be agreed to by
State Controller and Director of Public Works.
   Permits State Controller to transfer back to Motor Vehicle Fund such amounts
transferred to State Highway Fund if necessary and with notice.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        213

Ch. 1438 ( S B 1065) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 13353, Veh.C, re drunk driv-
     ing : chemical tests.
   Requires peace officer arresting person for driving a motor vehicle while under
influence of intoxicating liquor to advise such person he has choice of whether
chemical test to determine alcohol content of his blood shall be of his blood',
breath, or urine.
Ch. 1439 ( S B 1079) W A L S H Amends Sec. 53067, Gov.C, re public con-
    struction contracts.
  Provides t h a t legislative body of local agency shall withhold 5 percent, rather
than 10 percent as previously, from progress payments on construction projects.
Ch. 1440 ( S B 1398) MOSCONB Amends Sec. 2682, adds Art. 8 (commencing
    with Sec. 2690), Ch. 5.7, Div. 2, B . & P.C., re physical therapy corporations.
  Provides for creation of physical therapy corporations pursuant to the Mos-
cone-Knox Professional Corporation Act.
Ch. 1441 (AB 5) B U R K E Repeals Sec. 20751.1, E d . C , re school district tax
     rates.
   Repeals provision making school district maximum tax rate provision ineffective
after July 1, 1971.
Ch. 1442 ( A B 60) W A K E F I E L D Adds Sees. 5020 and 5021, V e h . C , re special
     license plates.
   Requires Department of Motor Vehicles, upon application made with applications
for original or renewal registration of a passenger vehicle to issue to any person
holding an unexpired license for a class D radio station in the Citizens Radio
Service issued by the Federal Communications Commission, one set of special
license plates inscribed with the official call sign of the applicant assigned by the
FCC, in lieu of regular license plates. Authorizes department to charge fee of $20
for initial registration and whenever the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle is
changed and $10 fee each succeeding year a t registration, in addition to regular
registration fee.
Ch. 1443 (AB 638) D A V I S Amends Sec. 12657, adds Sec. 12648.7, W a t . C ,
     re Feather River flood control.
   Adopts and authorizes project for flood protection on the North Fork of the
Feather River near Chester, Plumas County in accordance with congressional
action at such estimated cost as may be appropriated for cooperation by the
Legislature upon recommendation by the Reclamation Board. Specifies that this
authorization shall not be deemed to confer preference on this project over needs
of other statewide programs in appropriations of available funds.
   Requires Reclamation Board to give assurances to the Secretary of the Army
of local cooperation in connection with such project and to execute plans for
project in cooperation with Department of the Army.
Ch. 1444 (AB 647) T O W N S E N D Amends Sec. 10782, R. & T.C., adds Sec.
     9102.5, Veh.C, re registration and license fees.
   Establishes $10 registration and licensing fee for privately owned schoolbuses, as
defined, operated in a specified manner under contract with private school or non-
profit educational organization by owner or operator of bus.
   Requires certain pupil transportation contracts to reflect $10 fee rather than
previously applicable fees before section is applicable.
   Exempts from vehicle license fee privately owned schoolbuses which are
operated in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Department of
Education exclusively in transporting school pupils, or school pupils and em-
ployees, of any public school or private nonprofit educational organization pursuant
to a contract between a public school district or nonprofit educational organization
and the owner or operator of such schoolbus. Such exemption is not applicable to
any schoolbus which is operated pursuant to any contract which requires the
public school district or nonprofit educational organization to pay any amount
representing the costs of registration and weight fees unless and until the contract
is amended to require only the payment of an amount representing the vehicle
license fee.
214                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 1445 ( A B 678) CULLEN Adds Sec. 1808.5, Veh.O.; amends Sec. 10850,
     W. & I.C., re blind drivers.
  Requires Department of Social Welfare to inform Department of Motor Vehicles
of all applicants for or recipients of aid to the blind. Requires Department of
Motor Vehicles to inform Department of Social Welfare of such applicants or
recipients who hold valid driving licenses.
  Makes related changes.
Oh. 1446 (AB 887) QUIMBY Adds Art. 8.6 (commencing with Sec. 893.20),
     Ch. 4, Div. 3, E d . C , re instructional television.
   Requires establishment of a two-year pilot program in a school district within
a county having a population in excess of 6,000,000 as determined by the 1960
decennial census, providing television classes for adults for home reception. Pro-
vides for state financial support for up to one-half of the cost to the district of
providing this program, but in no event to exceed $250,000.
   Deletes requirement that adult classes shall only be provided for persons residing
in district maintaining pilot program.
   Reserves out of federal funds received pursuant to Title I I I of Elementary and
Secondary Education Act of 1965 $125,000 for each of the 1970-1971 and 1 9 7 1 -
1972 fiscal years for the program.
Ch. 1447 ( A B 1108) DUNLAP Adds Sec. 6360, P.R.O., re land.
   Provides that the boundary line of land bordering upon tidal waters or upon a
navigable stream in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, as described, is conclu-
sively presumed to be located at the ordinary high-water mark when such land
borders on tidal lands not validly patented into private ownership and at the
low-water mark when such land borders upon a navigable stream where there is no
tide or where such lands consist of tidelands validly patented into private owner-
ship, as such high or low water mark exists upon the effective date of section and
from time to time thereafter, where for 30 years continuously the land, including
any accretion thereto, has been occupied openly and notoriously under claim of
title, all taxes have been paid by the occupier, and a deed or map, or both, de-
scribing or depicting the boundaries of the land, has been recorded. Provides that
nothing in this section shall be construed as vesting in an adjacent or contiguous
landowner title to any lands which have been artificially filled by him or his
predecessors or any public agency or which have attached to his lands as a result
of an avulsive change in the shoreline or in the course, or an artificial rechanneliza-
tion of, any river or stream. Also provides that nothing in section shall be construed
as divesting such landowner of title to any lands which have been artificially
dredged by him or his predecessors or any public agency or which have detached
from his lands as a result of an avulsive change in the shoreline or in the course of,
or an artificial rechannelization of, any river or stream.
Ch. 1448 ( A B 1129) M O R E T T I Amends Sec. 100160.5, P.U.C., re rapid
    transit.
  Deletes provisions forbidding Santa Clara County Transit District from providing
charter bus service. Specifies conditions of such service.
Ch. 1449 ( A B 1300) HAYES Amends Sees. 68500.5, 68841, 68901, 69140,
     adds Sec. 68512, Gov.C, re salaries, judicial officers.
   Increases salary of Administrative Director of the Courts from $30,000 to
$36,687, of the Clerk of the Supreme Court from $22,000 to $26,565, of the
reporter of decisions of the Supreme Court and of the courts of appeal from $19,500
to $23,546, and of the clerks of the appellate districts.
Ch. 1450 ( S B 885) C O L L I E R New act, re air transportation study.
  Appropriates $100,000 from General Fund to Department of Aeronautics to
participate in the West Coast Air Corridor Study Program to study, evaluate and
eventually test the short-haul systems of air transportation.
Ch. 1451 ( A B 1340) ASSEMBLY C O M M I T T E E ON H E A L T H AND W E L -
     F A R E Adds various sees., H . & S.C., W. & I.C., re health facilities: area
     planning.
  Provides for voluntary area planning programs with respect to construction and
expansion of hospitals and related health facilities, including facilities licensed
by the Department of Mental Hygiene.
                    1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                             215

Ch. 1452 (AB 1341) A S S E M B L Y C O M M I T T E E ON H E A L T H A N D W E L -
     F A R E Adds Sec. 14105.5, W. & I.C., re medical assistance.
   Prohibits director from paying under Medi-Cal any licensed hospital facility se-
curing a license after July 1, 1970, to cover a new facility or additional bed
capacity or the conversion of existing bed capacity to a different license category,
unless such facility has received a favorable final decision by the voluntary area
health planning agency, the consumer members of a voluntary area health planning
agency acting as an appeals body, or the Health Planning Council; or unless the
licensee duly filed its application for the license prior to J a n u a r y 1, 1970, together
with preliminary plans.
   To become operative only upon enactment of AB 1340.
Ch. 1453 (AB 1362) MONAGAN Adds Art. 2.8 (commencing with Sec. 13250),.
     Ch. 2, Div. 10, E d . C , re New Careers Program.
   Expresses legislative intent re New Careers in Education Program, and authorizes
University of California, California State Colleges, or any private institution of
higher education to participate therein, and authorizes Department of Education
to enter into agreements with participating school districts to provide training and
to share administrative costs and salary support in such program.
   Authorizes school district to enter into agreements with such institutions of
higher education to participate therein, and authorizes Department of Education
to enter into agreements with participating school districts to provide training and
to share administrative costs and salary support in such program.
   Specifies criteria for selection of participating students, to be known as "interns,"
and team leaders. Requires interns to enroll in course of study at participating in-
stitution of higher education which will lead to a baccalaureate degree and a teach-
ing credential.
   Specifies duties, responsibilities, and compensation of interns and team leaders.
Provides for reimbursement to school districts in connection with the program.
   Requires Director of Compensatory Education, under policy direction of State
Board of Education and administrative direction of Director of Education, to provide
administrative assistance and to adopt rules and regulations with respect to program.
   Appropriates $125,000 for purposes of program.
Ch. 1454 (AB 1486) VEYSEY Adds various sees., E d . C , Veh.C, re experi-
      mental driver training program.
   Provides generally for selection by Superintendent of Public Instruction, in con-
sultation with and with approval of, Department of Motor Vehicles, of not to ex-
ceed 20 school districts as "experimental driver training districts," and for entering
into contracts between such districts and certified commercial driving schools for
training in automobile driving of secondary school students scientifically selected
by the Department of Motor Vehicles. Requires State Department of Education
to adopt reasonable rules and regulations for these purposes and to reimburse dis-
tricts for costs incurred.
   Requires the certified commercial driving schools and the secondary schools to
each train test groups of students from July 1, 1970, to June 30, 1971, p u r s u a n t to
2 separate standards.
    Directs Department of Motor Vehicles to establish standards for, approve, and
monitor courses of instruction for driving instructors meeting recommendations spec-
ified in Federal Highway Safety Act of 1966 and to monitor the training given to,
students by certified commercial driving schools under contracts with school districts.
Requires that instructors in certified commercial driving schools pass drivers' in-
struction course conforming with standards promulgated by such act and approved
by Department of Motor Vehicles.
    Requires Department of Motor Vehicles to conduct a study of automobile driving
training programs in experimental driver training districts for purpose of comparing
costs and benefits of training students in commercial driving schools with costs
and benefits of training by secondary schools. Requires department to scientifically
select students to be trained in the certified commercial driving schools and in the
secondary schools; to assign such students to test groups; and to submit interim
report of study to Legislature in 1972 and final report to Legislature in 1974.
    Makes appropriation from Driver Training Penalty Assessment Fund for purposes
of act.
    To remain in effect only until July 1,1974.
216                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1455 ( A B 1705) B E V E R L Y Amends Sec. 12202, R. & T.C., re taxation of
     insurers.
  Reduces rate of tax on gross premiums received upon policies or contracts issued
in connection with a pension plan or profit-sharing plan exempt or qualified under
the Internal Revenue Code from 1.00 to 0.50 for the year 1969 and each year
thereafter.
Ch. 1456 (AB 1719) QUIMBY Adds Sees. 12747, 12747.1, and 12747.2, W a t . C ,
     re flood control.
  Adopts and authorizes plan of improvement for flood control and other purposes
on Cucamonga Creek in San Bernardino County in accordance with congressional
action at such estimated cost as may be appropriated for cooperation by the Legis-
lature upon recommendation by the Department of W a t e r Resources. Specifies that
this authorization shall not be deemed to confer preference on this project over needs
of other statewide programs in appropriation of available funds.
   Requires the San Bernardino County Flood Control District to give assurances
to the Secretary of Army of local cooperation and to execute plans for project in
cooperation with the Department of the Army.
   Includes Lower Llagas Creek Watershed Project among projects for which funds
may be expended from appropriation made by Item 349 of Budget Act of 1969.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1457 (AB 1775) D U F F Y Amends Sec. 437.5, H . & S.C., re Health Plan-
     ning Council.
  Requires Health Planning Council to review and pass upon all project grant ap-
plications for public funds that relate to health and which are administered either
directly or indirectly by state agencies, except funds appropriated by Legislature,
and specifies what review shall include.
Ch. 1458 (AB 1830) M I L L E R Adds Sec. 830.7, P e n . C , re peace officers: iden-
     tification badges.
  Requires uniformed peace officer to wear identification badge, nameplate, or other
device which bears his identification number or name.
Ch. 1459 (AB 1896) M U R P H Y Adds Sec. 3, Ch. 1461, Stats. 1968, re state
    beaches and parks.
  Makes specified funds available for expenditure by the Department of Parks and
Recreation during fiscal year 1969-1970 for construction of a groin at Capitola State
Park.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1460 (AB 2265) Z E N O V I C H Adds Ch. 3.5 (commencing with Sec. 21500),
     P t . 1, Div. 9, P.U.C., re downed aircraft transmitters.
   Declares policy of state that all civil aircraft, with certain enumerated exceptions,
located for tax purposes in state be equipped with an approved device capable of
indicating by radio transmission the position of the aircraft when grounded.
   Requires Department of Aeronautics to examine downed aircraft transmitting
devices and to approve those found reliable, and to establish minimum standards
therefor.
   Requires use of such devices on commercial aircraft after one year, and on other
aircraft after two years. Allows department to exempt individual cases where de-
partment finds safety would not be increased.
   Exempts from provisions air carrier aircraft operating under specified federal
certification.
Ch. 1461 (AB 2315) BAGLEY Amends Sec. 23184, R. & T.C., re taxation of
     financial corporations.
  Authorizes financial corporations to elect to offset, in whole or in part, various
taxes against the franchise tax imposed pursuant to the Bank and Corporation
Tax Law over a period of 4 years, rather than providing for such offsets for the
income year to which the tax relates.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1462 ( S B 88) COOMBS Adds Sees. 14378, 14379, 14380, and 14404, Gov.C,
     re arbitration : public contracts.
  Requires insertion of provision in contracts subject to State Contract Act or
State College Contract Law authorizing submission of disputes over monetary claims
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           217

of less than $25,000, in the aggregate, a t option of either party, to a determination
of rights, and makes provisions for such claims and hearings under such provisions.
Oh. 1463 ( S B 737) S H E R M A N Adds Sec. 31469.4, Gov.C, re County Employ-
     ees Retirement Law.
   Provides that juvenile hall group counselors and supervisors engaged in the cus-
tody and control of youths detained under physical security, may be deemed to be
safety members in counties under the County Employees Retirement Law of 1937
in counties in which the board of supervisors makes the provisions applicable.
Ch. 1464 ( S B 825) D E U K M E J I A N Adds Ch. 2.5 (commencing with Sec.
     17065), P t . 10, Div. 2, R. & T.C., re Personal Income Tax Law.
   Provides, with specified exceptions, for a 10-pereent special tax credit against the
taxes imposed under the Personal Income Tax Law for the 1969 calendar year and
for certain fiscal years beginning in 1969, but not to exceed $100 in the case of
a single person or a married person filing a separate return or $200 in the case
of a head of a household or a married couple filing a joint return.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1465 ( S B 810) S C H M I T Z Amends Sec. 10751, adds Sec. 22504.5, E d . C ,
     re pupil records.
   Provides that names and addresses, the attendance records, names of parents,
birth dates and places, and prior schools attended for specified pupils in public,
private, and parochial schools may be released, by schools teaching kindergarten
through grade 12, to an officer or employee of the United States seeking this
information in the course of his duties.
   Provides that officers and employees of United States, state, city or county, rather
than just state and local law enforcement officers, may be given access to written
pupil records re pupils of junior college, college, or university when needed in the
course of their duties without judicial process. Provides that officers and employees
of a guidance or welfare agency may be given access to written pupil records of
pupils in a junior college, college, or university, who are clients, without judicial
process.
  Makes technical changes.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 10751, E d . C , proposed by AB 2214 [Ch.
1363], to be operative only upon enactment of SB 152 [Ch. 727].
Ch. 1466 (AB 1474) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sees. 23320, 23821, adds Sees.
      23321.7, 23954.7, 23962, B. & P.C., re alcoholic beverages.
    Requires the Department of Alcoholic Beverages before accepting any applications
for intercounty transfer of on-sale general licenses to publish notice of the depart-
ment's intention to accept such applications.
    Authorizes the department if, at the conclusion of the period prescribed for the
filing of applications for the issuance or transfer of on-sale general licenses in its
notice of intention to receive applications, there are less applicants than there are
on-sale general licenses available for issuance or transfer to again publish notice of
the department's intention to receive applications for the issuance of such new orig-
inal licenses or for the intercounty transfer of such licenses. Provides t h a t if there
are more applicants for such licenses than there are licenses available then the pro-
visions relating to priority drawing are to apply.
    Prohibits a person, who has applied in any county for a new original on-sale
general license or for intercounty transfer of an on-sale general license during the
period prescribed by the department in its first notice of intention to receive appli-
cations, from filing an application under second notice.
   Provides for the issuance of an on-sale general bona fide public eating place
intermittent doekside license for vessels of more than 15,000 tons displacement.
    Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 23320, B. & P.C., proposed by S B 923 r
to be operative only upon enactment of SB 923.
Ch. 1467 (SB 923) S H O R T Amends Sec. 23320, B . & P.C., re alcoholic bev-
     erage licenses.
   Sets single annual fee of $350 for retail package off-sale general alcoholic beverage
license, rather than a fee of $200 if the gross retail sales are under $20,000 or $400
if the gross retail sales are $20,000 or more.
218                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1468 ( S B 1186) COOMBS Amends Sec. 1193, C.C.P., and Sec. 3097, Civ.
     C , as added by SB 316, re mechanics' liens: notice.
  Requires mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument securing loan, any of pro-
ceeds of which may be used for construction of improvements on real property,
to bear designation "Construction Trust Deed" and specified information regarding
real property and lender on face of instrument. Declares that failure to include such
information shall not affect validity of instrument. Requires county recorder in
county where instrument is recorded to indicate in general index of official records
that such instrument secures construction loan.
  Provides that service of notice to withhold may, in addition to those places
presently provided, be made at the address of the lender which is included in such
instrument which is recorded with the county recorder.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 1193, C.C.P., proposed by SB 730 to be
operative only upon enactment of SB 730.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 3097 of the Civil Code as added by SB
316, to be operative only upon enactment of SB 316.
Ch. 1469 ( S B 1261) D E U K M E J I A N Amends and renumbers Sees. 25302,
     25302.5, amends Sec. 25500, repeals Sec. 25301, Elec.C, re declarations of
     intent.
   Provides that except for judges of the Supreme Court or court of appeal who
are nominated or appointed by the Governor to fill a vacancy, every candidate for
judicial office must file a declaration of intent not more than 15, instead of 10,
nor less than 5 days before first day nomination papers may be circulated. Requires
copy of * declaration of intent to be forwarded from county clerk to Secretary of
State, except for justice and municipal court candidates.
   Requires county clerk to forward original of declaration of intent of legislator to
Secretary of State. Allows incumbent legislator who is candidate for reelection to
alternatively file declaration of intent with Secretary of State who shall forward
copy to county clerk concerned.
   Declares that Section 4 of this act is to become inoperative if AB 1787 is enacted.
Ch. 1470 (AB 1787) CONRAD Repeals Ch. 4 (commencing with Sec. 25500),
      Div. 13, Elec.C, re declarations of intent.
   Repeals provisions requiring declarations of intent for candidates for legislative
office.
Ch. 1471 ( S B 1286) B U R G E N E R Amends, repeals various sees., as enacted by
     A B 387, H . & S.C., re mentally retarded.
  Replaces Director of Mental Hygiene with Secretary of the Human Relations
Agency in the program providing services for the mentally retarded.
  Deletes provision transferring functions from. Administrator of Health and Wel-
fare Agency to Director of Mental Hygiene relating to such program.
Ch. 1472 ( S B 1389) MOSCONE Adds Art. 4 (commencing with Sec. 6995.1),
     Ch. 10.5, Div. 6, E d . C , adds Sec. 12803.7, Gov.C, and amends heading of
     Art. 1 (commencing with Sec. 5150), and adds Art. 1.5 (commencing with Sec.
     5170), Ch. 2, P t . 1, Div. 5, W & I.C., re alcoholics.
   Provides for detention of inebriates for 72 hours treatment and evaluation under
Lanterman-Petris-Short Act. Requires approval of treatment facility by Director of
Mental Hygiene in order to receive Short-Doyle financing.
   To apply in only those counties in which board of supervisors adopts a resolution
to that effect.
   Authorizes counties to establish treatment and rehabilitation programs for chronic
alcoholics and names the Human Relations Agency as single state agency for re-
ceiving federal funds payable directly to state for treatment of alcoholism.
Ch. 1473 ( A B 1186) KNOX Amends, adds, repeals various sees., Gov.C, re
     California Land Conservation Act.
  Includes land in scenic highway corridors along existing or proposed state or
county highways in the scenic highway system and land in wildlife habitat a r e a s '
designated by a city council or county board of supervisors after consulting with the
Department of Fish and Game within the types of lands which may be restricted to
open-space uses by contracts or agreements pursuant to the California Land Con-
servation Act of 1965. Establishes procedures also for restricting saltponds, managed
"Correction.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         219

wetland areas and submerged areas to open space uses pursuant to the act. Deletes
various requirements for establishing, changing the boundaries of, and abolishing
agricultural preserves under this act.
  Requires county assessors to certify annually to the Director of Agriculture and to
the State Board of Equalization as to the number of acres of prime agricultural land
within each school district or portion of a district within the county.
   Incorporates additional changes to Section 51201 of the Government Code, proposed
by Assembly Bill No. 1178, to be operative only upon the enactment of Assembly
Bill No. 1178.
Ch. 1474 ( A B 1668) F O B A N New act, re San Francisco tidelands.
  Grants to City and County of San Francisco, free of public trust for purposes
of navigation, commerce, and fisheries, all right, title, and interest in- certain
described parcels of land, subject to specified reservations. Requires such lands to
be sold at a price equal to the fair market value of the state's interest, to be
determined as specified. Requires proceeds to be used to retire bonded indebtedness
incurred for San Francisco Harbor improvements and for which the state is
primarily liable. Authorizes action to be brought, as specified, to establish title to
such lands.
Ch. 1475 (AB 1482) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Adds Sec. 14012, Gov.C, re state
      property.
   Authorizes Department of Public Works to lease parcels of nonoperating right-
of-way to other public agencies for public purposes.
   Authorizes department to contribute toward cost of developing recreational fa-
cilities on such parcels.
   Authorizes department to classify portions of state highway right-of-way as
nonoperating.
Ch. 1476 (AB 148) McDONALD New act, re centers for mentally retarded.
   Requires State Department of Public Health to establish 3 new regional centers
for the mentally retarded from money appropriated for that purpose in the Budget
Act of 1969.
Ch. 1477 -(SB 243) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sec. 72602.1, Gov.C, re munic-
    ipal courts.
  Provides an additional judge for the Long Beach Municipal Court District.
Ch. 1478 ( S B 300) MOSCONE Amends Sec. 32132, H . & S . C ; adds Sec.
     23704, R. & TC, re corporation tax exemptions
   Defines as organization exempt from taxes imposed under Bank and Corporation
Tax Law, one which is organized and operated to perform one or more specified
services solely for two or more tax-exempt hospitals, which if performed by the
hospital would constitute a basis for an exemption, which is organized and operated
on a cooperative basis allocating and paying all earnings to members on the basis
of service performed for them, and which organization has capital stock all of
which is owned by its members.
   Permits hospitals formed under Local Hospital District Law to participate in
such an organization, notwithstanding specified provisions with respect to receiving
bids for certain contracts and declares that organization of which district hospital
is a member is not subject to such requirements for receiving bids.
   Operative in the computation of taxes on or measured by net income of
calendar or fiscal years ending after December 31, 1968.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1479 ( S B 481) M A R K S New act, re increased compensation: specified
     employees.
  Appropriates $3,676,633 for period July 1, 1969-June 30, 1970, from General
Fund, and necessary amount from special funds, to raise salary ranges of psy-
chiatric technician classes.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1480 ( S B 484) L A G O M A R S I N O Amends Sec. 69599.5, Gov.C, re su-
    perior courts
  Increases number of judges of the superior court in the County of S a n t a
Barbara from six to seven.
  Operative July 1,1970.
220                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1481 ( S B 508) GRUNSKY Adds Sec. 20081.1, E d . C , re Junior College
     Construction Act.
  Provides formulae for determining the relative district ability of junior college
districts formed since June 30, 1964, for purposes of determining minimum state
share for construction costs under the Junior College Construction Act of 1967.
Ch. 1482 ( S B 766) B R A D L E Y Amends Sec. 69600, Gov.C, re superior court
    judges.
  Provides for two additional superior court judges for Santa Clara County.
Ch. 1483 ( S B 966) B R A D L E Y Amends," adds, repeals, various sees., Gov.C,
     re deposit of public money.
  Revises provisions relating to deposit of local agency funds to allow pooling of
securities required as collateral to secure such deposits.
   Confers specified duties upon depositories of such funds with respect to such
deposits.
  Designates Superintendent of Banks as Administrator of Local Agency Security
and confers specified duties and powers upon him as such, including collection of
registration fee from banks wishing to act as depositories of local agencies' funds
to finance planning and staffing of offices.
   To become operative July 1, 1970, but allows administrator to make such plan-
ning and staffing provisions as are necessary prior to that time.
Ch. 1484 ( S B 1386) M A R K S Adds Sec. 897, M. & V . C , re veterans' benefits.
  Requires Department of Veterans Affairs to grant veterans' collegiate educational
benefits for postgraduate college study to children of veterans killed in action in
World W a r I I , who are enrolled in graduate study, who have specified Chinese
language skills, and who meet specified age limits.
Ch. 1485 ( S B 1420) W H E T M O R E Amends Sec. 69591, Gov.C, re superior
     courts.
  Increases number of judges of the superior court in the County of Orange from
21 to 22.
Ch. 1486 ( A B 739) M U L F O R D Amends Sec. 69580, Gov.C, re judges.
  Increases number of superior court judges in Alameda County from 22 to 23.
Ch. 1487 (AB 1031) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 69104, Gov.C, re appellate
     judges.
  Adds one judge to the San Diego division and two judges to the San Bernardino
division of the Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District.
  Appropriates $242,000 from General Fund for additional support of Court of
Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District.
Ch. 1488 (AB 1089) Z'BERG New act, re state property.
  Authorizes Director of General Services to quitclaim specified land to City of
Gait on condition land be used substantially for park or recreational purposes.
Ch. 1489 ( A B 1191) L A N T E R M A N Amends, adds various sees., Gov.C, H .
      & S.C., P.U.C., and S. & H.C., re property acquisitions: compensation:
      assistance.
   Allows public entities, as defined, and public utilities to give relocation advisory
assistance and make payments for moving expenses and relocation costs to specified
recipients located in counties having population of more than 4,000,000, in connec-
tion with acquisition of real property for public use in such counties. Permits pay-
ments for decline in value of property affected by acquisition and change of use of
other property and authorizes adoption of rules and regulations for relocation
assistance and compensation within such counties by public entities and public
utilities.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1490 (AB 1194) HAYES Amends, adds, various sees., Gov.C, re courts.
  Increases number of judges in various court and judicial districts.
Ch. 1491 (AB 1799) D E N T Amends various sees., Gov.C, re courts.
  Increases certain filing fees and number of judges and salaries and salary sched-
ules of various attaches in Contra Costa County.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           221

Ch. 1492 ( A B 2 2 1 3 ) L E W I S Amends See. 23754.3, E d . C , re tuition.
   Permits the Trustees of the California State Colleges to waive or reduce tuition
fees for a nonresident student who is a citizen and resident of a foreign country
who is a graduate student of exceptional scholastic ability and achievement and
who is employed twenty hours or more a week by a state college.
Ch. 1493 (AB 1035) MONAGAN Adds Ch. 6 (commencing with Sec. 32001)
     Div. 22, E d . C , re innovative schools.
   Creates Educational Research Commission to administer California innovative
schools that experiment and explore problems in education. Provides for composition
and powers and duties of such commission.
   Requires State Board of Education, in approving any state plan for the admin-
istration of specified federal funds, to assure t h a t specified amounts of federal funds
are reserved and allocated to the commission.
Ch. 1494 ( S B 172) R O D D A Amends, amends and renumbers, various sees.,
     E d . C , re average daily attendance.
  Authorizes Superintendent of Public Instruction, for fiscal year 1968-1969 only, to
permit school districts an alternate method of computing a.d.a. for regular day
schools on basis, of attendance of each day of school month rather than on actual at-
tendance of last day of each school month.
  Permits governing board of each school district to determine which method is to
be used to compute a.d.a.
  Requires excess to be brought forward for next succeeding fiscal year if a.d.a. for
regular day schools computed by alternate method for period between July 1 and
June 30 exceeds the a.d.a. reported in second period report.
  Restores prior formula for computation of average daily attendance in various
school districts as scheduled to be restored on the 61st day after the final adjourn-
ment of the 1970 Regular Session of the Legislature and requires school districts to
report actual attendance and active enrollment on third Wednesday of each month.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1495 ( S B 305) DYMALLY Amends, adds, repeals various sees., E d . C , re
     vocational education.
   Substitutes Vocational Education Acts of 1963 and 1968 in lieu of such acts of
1936 and 1946 in declaration that state accepts provision of, and funds provided by
Congress for, such acts.
   Replaces Federal Board for Vocational Education, which has been abolished,
with United States Commissioner of Education and United States Office of Educa-
tion as federal agencies State Board of Education is to cooperate with in admin-
istration of federal vocational education acts.
   Deletes obsolete requirement that Department of Education is to develop and im-
plement experimental pilot summer vocational education program.
   Requires governing board of school district participating in a vocational education
program to appoint Vocational Education Advisory Committee. Incorporates similar
provision as added by AB 1820, contingent upon enactment of A B 1820.
   Enacts Summer Vocational and Technical Education Act of 1969 to permit gov-
erning boards of school districts to establish summer vocational and technical edu-
cation programs for pupils completing grades 9 to 12. Establishes procedures and
requirements for participation in such programs by school districts.
   Requires Department of Education to report annually to Legislature by 30th leg-
islative day of regular session on operation and results of such programs.
   Authorizes school district, upon approval of department, to be reimbursed from
funds appropriated by Legislature for purposes of act for excess current expense per
pupil in a.d.a. participating in the program during preceding fiscal year above
foundation program for district during such year for such pupil, plus any other
state or federal funds received, or to be received, for operation of program.
   Appropriates $71,000 for 1970-1971 fiscal year.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1496 (SB 533) MCCARTHY Adds Sec. 14402.5, Gov.C, re State Contract
     Act.
   Allows contractor with state under State Contract Act with approval of the state
to require retained percentage of contract payment under act normally withheld
pending completion of contract to be paid into escrow and subsequently to him upon
the placing in escrow by him of eligible securities of an equal or greater amount.
222                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Provides the securities would be returned or given to contractor upon completion
of contract, that the contractor would receive any interest on the securities while-
in escrow, and would pay the expense of the escrow account.
   * States minimum provisions of escrow agreement.
Ch. 1497 ( S B 647) S T I E R N Amends Sec. 22700, E d . C , re coordinating coun-
     cil for higher education.
  Permits two alternates to be named by the appointing authority for the chancellor
of the California Community Colleges and two alternates, rather than one, for the
Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges, who represent public jun-
ior colleges on the Coordinating Council for Higher Education.
  Deletes the requirement that one alternate may be named for the representative
of the State Board of Education and deletes the requirement that the Board of
Governors of the California Community Colleges may designate one alternate mem-
ber to represent it on the Coordinating Council for Higher Education.
   Makes related technical changes.
Ch. 1498 ( S B 677) S H O R T Amends Sees. 2105 and 2106, adds Sec. 186.6, S. &
     H.C., re highway funds.
  Appropriates to California Highway Commission from the Motor Vehicle Fuel
Fund an amount not to exceed $50,000 per year for work done by Department of
Public Works to assist Controller in reviewing expenditure of highway user funds
by local agencies.
  Corrects erroneous cross-references in provisions re distribution of Highway Users
Tax Fund money to cities and counties.
  Ch. 1499 ( S B 836) D O L W I G Adds Sees. 26822.3, 72056.1, Gov.C, re Judges'
       Retirement Law.
    Provides for payment of an additional fee of $2 for filing of first paper of plaintiff
  and defendant in Superior Court and an additional fee of $1 for such filings in
j Municipal Court with the funds to be transmitted to the State Controller for deposit
  in the Judges' Retirement Fund.
 Ch. 1500 ( S B 874) MOSCONE Adds Sec. 789.5, Civ.C, re mobilehome park
      tenancies.
   Provides that no tenancy or other estate a t will or lease, however created on or
 after effective date of section, in mobilehome park with respect to any mobilehome
 or trailer coach required to be moved under permit may be terminated except upon
 landlord giving prescribed written notice to tenant to remove from premises within
 period of not less than 60 days, to be specified in notice. Prohibits any waiver of
 such provisions by tenant. Provides that lease may provide for termination by such
 notice within period of more than 60 days.
 Ch. 1501 ( S B 887) T E A L E Adds Ch. 6.8           (commencing     with    Section
      6499.51), Div. 6, E d . C , re school dropouts.
    Authorizes school districts to establish dropout prevention programs in order
 to encourage pupils to complete elementary and secondary school education. Speci-
 fies contents of such programs, and establishes unit within Office of Compensatory
 Education to administer act and other programs financed under Title V I I I of the
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. Requires State Board of Educa-
 tion to adopt rules and regulations to adminster act and to approve allocations of
 federal funds made under act, and to distribute descriptions of successful programs
 conducted under act.

 Ch. 1502 ( S B 925) SONG Amends Sec. 1773.1, L a b . C , re wages.
   Provides that per diem wages, as term is used in law relating to wages paid on
 public works, includes employer payments for apprenticeship or other training pro-
 grams authorized by Sec. 3093, L a b . C , dealing with certain on-the-job training
 programs.
 Ch. 1503 ( S B 982) M A R K S Amends Sec. 13187, adds Sees. 13124.6, 13124.7,
     13188.5, E d . C , re teaching credentials.
   Creates a standard teaching credential with specialization in early childhood
 teaching. Specifies minimum requirements for, and authorized services under, such
 credential.
   Declares legislative intent.
 •Correction.
                    1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           223

   Directs Coordinating Council for Higher Education and Commission for Teacher
Preparation and Licensing, or State Board of Education if A B 740 is not enacted,
to develop plan of programs leading to Children's Center Permit with programs
leading to standard teaching credential with specialization in early childhood
teaching, and to submit report on plan to Legislature by fifth legislative day of
1971 Regular Session.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 13187, E d . C , proposed by AB 1910, to
be operative only upon enactment of AB 1910.
   Incorporates similar provisions, Sees. 13124.6 and 13124.7, E d . C , to be operative-
only upon enactment of AB 740.
Ch. 1504 (SB 1056) S T I E R N Adds Ch. 7.4 (commencing with Sec. 25660),
    , Div. 20, H . & S.C., re radiologic technology regulation.
  Establishes Radiologic Technology Certification Committee. Requires Department
of Public Health to adopt, upon recommendation of committee, regulations gov-
erning qualifications and certification of radiologic technologists. Provides for ap-
proval of schools of radiologic technology by department. Sets out disciplinary
procedures, penalties, and fees.
  To be operative only until 61st day after final adjournment of 1975 Regular
Session of the Legislature.
Ch. 1505 ( S B 1091) M A R K S Adds Sec. 11211, W . & I.C., re aid to de-
     pendent children.
   Provides that recipient of aid to families with dependent children in program of
rehabilitation or job training or placement be considered as unemployed and
training not completed until his income equals the amount of income to which he
and his family are entitled.
   To be operative as a demonstrative project in a single urban county subject to
federal approval.
Ch. 1506 ( S B 1121) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 830.4, P e n . C , re peace officers.
    Makes bailiffs of Supreme Court and courts of appeal, harbor policemen
regularly employed and paid as such by a county, city, or district, and port
warden and special officers of the Harbor Department of the City of Los Angeles,
peace officers while engaged in the performance of the duties of their employment.
Provides that such harbor policemen and such port warden and special officers are
not peace officers for purposes of specified sections relating to concealable or loaded
firearms except when designated by local ordinance or, if local agency is not
authorized to act by ordinance, by resolution, either individually or by class, a s
peace officers for such purposes.
Ch. 1507 ( S B 1123) S C H M I T Z Amends Sec. 68203, Gov.C, re judges' salaries.
   Revises section providing pay increases for judges every fourth year based upon
rise in per capita personal income in California to provide yearly increase based
on rise in California consumer price index as compiled by California Department
of Industrial Relations instead.
Ch. 1508 ( S B 1127) B E I L E N S O N Amends Sec. 23731a, adds Sec. 23774, R.
     & T.C., re corporate tax exemptions.
   Deletes provision under Bank and Corporation Tax Law which presently ex-
cludes a church, a convention or association of churches from the payment of
tax on unrelated business income. Authorizes Franchise Tax Board to require
exempt religious organizations to file annual statement of activities and income.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1509 (SB 1365) C A R R E L L Amends and repeals various provisions, Gov.C,
     R & T.C., Gen. Law, re property taxes.
   Deletes alternate procedures for tax sales and payment of delinquent taxes in
installments used in collection of property taxes on the secured roll in four equal
installments.
   Revises provisions disallowing credit for back taxes paid when property is re-
deemed on which delinquent taxes have been paid in installments and when pay-
ment of delinquent taxes in installments is restarted.
   Prohibits the State Board of Equalization from prescribing rules and regula-
tions with respect to the assessment and equalization of possessory interests until
the lien date in 1971, rather than until the lien date in 1970.
224                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1510 ( S B 1387) S T I E R N New act, re water.
  Appropriates $69,875 from the General Fund to the State Department of Publie
Health in augmentation of Item 160 of the Budget Act of 1969 to be expended
during the 1969-1970 fiscal year for a study of the community water supplies
within the area of Delano, California, to be available only after the Director of
Public * Health has certified to the Department of Finance that sufficient federal
funds are not available for the study.
Ch. 1511 ( S B 1413) S T E V E N S Amends Sec. 830.3, P e n . C , re peace officers.
   Makes members of a fire department of a local agency and persons designated by
a local agency as park rangers, regularly employed and paid as such, peace officers
and prescribes duties and authority of such peace officers.
   Declares intent of Legislature that inclusion of members of fire department of
local agency, regularly employed and paid as such, within the definition of
peace officer shall not make specified provisions of Meyers-Milias-Brown Act, re-
lating to public employee organizations, applicable to them to greater extent than
it applied prior to effective date of legislation.
Ch. 1512 ( A B 325) U N R U H Adds Div. 4.5 (commencing with Sec. 3600),
     Title 1, and repeals Sec. 8923, Gov.C, re conflicts of interest.
  Requires enumerated public officials and public employees, and candidates for
state or local public office, to disclose their investments and ownership of shares in
corporations other than nonprofit corporations, including investments and shares
owned by persons under their control. Requires Candidates for state or local
public office to disclose the sources and amounts of political contributions received
which total more than $500. Deletes provision relating to legislative intent and
construction of Legislators' Code of Ethics.
Ch. 1513 ( A B 703) K E T C H U M Amends, adds, repeals various sees., E d . C ,
     re school district.
   Provides that vacancies in school district governing boards shall be filled by
election rather than by appointment. Provides that a vacancy occurring within
four months of the end of a term shall not be filled.
   Provides that if vacancies occur in a majority of offices on school district govern-
ing board, president of county board of education having jurisdiction may appoint
members of county board of education until new members of governing board are
elected.
Ch. 1514 ( A B 760) M I L I A S Amends See. 987b, P e n . C , re defense of in-
     digent persons.
  Provides that Department of Finance shall pay to counties amount not exceeding
10 percent of amount actually expended, rather than amount annually budgeted,
by counties in providing counsel in accordance with law for persons who desire, but
are unable to afford, counsel in cases involving violations of state criminal law
and involuntary detention under Lanterman-Petris-Short Act, rather than in-
volving violations of state criminal law only.
Ch. 1515 ( A B 1553) ZENOVICH New act, re state property.
  Authorizes and directs Director of General Services to quitclaim, a t no cost,
specified property to City of Fresno upon condition property be used for public
purposes.
Ch. 1516 (AB 1587) B U R K E Amends Sec. 20017.8, Gov.C, re Public Em-
     ployees' Reitrement System.
   Expands the classes of lifeguard personnel included in the definition of "law en-
forcement member." Deletes the provision that the rate of contribution applicable
to "law enforcement members" as included in provision shall apply only to compen-
sation paid after operative date thereof.
Ch. 1517 ( A B 2144) B R O W N Adds Sec. 488, I n s . C , re motor vehicles: opera-
     tion.
  Prohibits insurer from increasing premium rates on any policy of private pas-
senger automobile insurance of insured for reason that such insured has been
arrested, cited, or convicted for traffic violations committed while operating motor
vehicles for compensation during hours of employment, except specified arrests,
•Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        225

citations, or convictions, and except persons insured under the California assigned
risk plan, if employer submits prescribed written declaration under penalty of
perjury regarding such arrest, citations, or conviction to insurer.
Ch. 1518 (AB 2293) B A G L E Y Amends Sec. 17503, E d . C , re teachers'
     salaries.
   Includes the cost of health and welfare benefits provided by the school district
within the meaning of "salaries of classroom teachers," for purposes of statute
requiring specified percentages of current expenses of education to be expended
for such salaries.
Ch. 1519 (AB 2300) RYAN Amends and adds, various sees., E d . C , re public
     school employment.
   Defines "full-time certificated nonteaching employees" and includes "inschool
libraries" and full-time counselors assigned full-time student counseling duties
within definition of "full-time equivalent classroom teachers" for purposes of re-
ports by school districts to Superintendent of Public Instruction r e : number of
employees and ratio of nonteaching employees to teaching employees. Requires
such ratio to be based on each 100 classroom teachers.
   Prescribes maximum ratios of full-time certificated nonteaching employees to
each 100 full-time equivalent classroom teachers for specified types of school dis-
tricts. Requires Superintendent of Public Instruction to determine extent to which
full-time certificated nonteaching employee number exceeds such ratios, and requires
the final apportionments from State School Fund to be reduced by a computable
amount for each excess full-time certificated nonteaching employee. Specifies t h a t
reductions shall be made only commencing in the 1972-73 fiscal year, and that
for prior years computed reductions which could have been made shall be reported
to the affected districtis and the Legislature.
   Specifies that amounts not transferred to State School Fund because of reduc-
tion of needs resulting from operation of this act shall be held in General Fund for
appropriation for public school purposes.
   Declares intent of Legislature to improve public education in state by maximizing
allocation of existing resources, to discourage growth of bureaucracy in public
schools, and to emphasize the importance and significance of the classroom teacher.
Ch. 1520 (AB 52) L E R O Y F . G R E E N E Adds Sec. 3565.5, Elec.C, re ballot
    arguments.
 Permits rebuttal arguments on ballot arguments.
  Declares that act to become inoperative if A B No. 1283 is enacted.
Ch. 1521 (AB 66) B R I T S C H G I Amends Sec. 3123, Com.C, and Sees. 6700,
    6701, 18025, Gov.C, re state holidays.
  Changes certain state holidays to fall upon specific Mondays, rather than on
dates. Makes similar changes in holidays for state employees and in provisions
governing the time for payment of negotiable instruments.
  As condition to local application thereof, requires local approval of holidays
appointed by President or Governor except as to Thanksgiving Day.
  Provides act shall become operative J a n u a r y 1, 1971.
Ch. 1522 (AB 69) C R O W N Amends Sec. 26243, H . & S.C., re misbranding
      of drugs.
   Specifies that, in ease a drug is fabricated from two or more ingredients, the
label of such drug shall bear the established name and quantity of each active
ingredient, along with the other specified requirement relating to labeling.
   Declares that the requirement for stating the quantity of the active ingredients
shall apply to all drugs, including prescription drugs, rather than only prescription
drugs, provided that for nonprescription drugs such requirement shall be satisfied by
either stating such quantities on label of drug or by filing statement of such quanti-
ties with State Department of Public Health. Requires that when such statement is
filed, it shall be available to specified parties.
   Permits department to grant exemption from such requirement upoii showing
by applicant through evidence satisfactory to department that grant will not
endanger public health. Authorizes department to establish regulations requiring
applicant for exemption to pay reasonable fee not to exceed $100.
    To be operative July 1, 1970. Exempts drugs shipped by manufacturer or packer
to retailer or wholesaler before such date, but requires t h a t such drugs comply
with specified requirements on and after July 1, 1973.
      8—L-2180
226                 1 9 ^ 9 EEGULAE SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1523 (AB 74) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 15518, E d . C , re school buildings.
   Extends termination date of provision authorizing maximum tax rate increase
for expenses incurred in the inspection or repair of school buildings respecting
earthquake safety from July 1, 1970, to July 1, 1975.
   Permits school district to accumulate excess proceeds of such tax from year to
year until July 1, 1975, rather than requiring that it spend excess amount in the
succeeding school year.
Ch. 1524 ( A B 95) L E R O Y F . G R E E N E Amends Sees. 6871, 6873, *6874 and
      6874.5, E d . C , re education of exceptional children.
   Requires school district, with approval of county superintendent of schools,
rather than Superintendent of Public Instruction, to pay tuition to parent or
guardian of physically handicapped minor, mentally retarded minor, severely
mentally retarded minor, or multiply handicapped minor in private or public non-
sectarian school, institution, or agency, within or without state, when special
education facilities and services needed are not available under any district,
county, or state public school program and cannot be reasonably provided because
of the cost or distance involved. Makes such provisions permissible with respect to
educationally handicapped minors. Establishes priorities re such educational fa-
cilities and services.
   Requires private nonsectarian schools, institutions, or agencies enrolling such
exceptional minors to submit yearly progress reports to county superintendent of
schools.
   Makes provision re inclusion and exclusion of specified tax rates for purposes
of determining allowances for such tuition payments and specifies limit on al-
lowances for multiply handicapped minors.
   To be operative July 1, 1970.
Ch. 1525 ( A B 116) B R I G G S Amends Sees. 10067, 10405, Ag.C, re slaughter
     of reacting bovines.
   Raises the maximum indemnity the owner of a tuberculosis reacting bovine slaugh-
tered pursuant to law is entitled to from $50 to $100 for grade animal and from
$75 to $125 for purebred animals.
   Raises the maximum indemnity the owner of a brucellosis reacting bovine slaugh-
tered pursuant to law is entitled to from $75 to $100 for grade animals and
from $100 to $125 for purebred animals.
   Appropriates $28,000 from General F u n d to carry out provisions of these pro-
visions.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1526 (AB 193) BAGLEY Adds, amends, repeals various sees., Gov.C, R.
       & T.C., Gen. Laws, re support of government.
    Allocates amounts to counties for property tax relief for 1969-1970 fiscal year
from Property Tax Relief Fund and increases the exemption for business inven-
tories from 15 to 30 percent for a period of two years, commencing with the lien
date in 1970, and reverts the exemption to 15 percent in 1972. Increases subven-
tions to local government from this fund by 100 percent beginning with the
1970-71 fiscal year but provides for a reduction in such sum for the 1972-73
fiscal year and fiscal years thereafter.
    Requires the Controller to transfer various sums from the State General Fund
to the Property Tax Relief Fund a t various times between August 21, 1970, and
J u n e 28, 1972.
    Provides that prepayments under the Bank and Corporation Tax Law shall not
be reduced for income years beginning on or after January 1, 1970, from 50
percent and 25 percent of estimated tax to 30 percent and 20 percent, respectively.
    Makes various related and conforming changes.
    Provides that affidavits required for classification of vessels eligible for assess-
ment at 1 percent of full cash value for purposes of property taxation shall be
filed with the assessor between the lien date and 5 o'clock on April 1 ; to become
operative on J a n u a r y 1, 1970.
   In effect immediately.
•Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          227

Oh. 1527 (AB 229) C R O W N Adds Sec. 253.5, H . & S.O., re crippled children
    ' services.
  Provides that the State Department of Public Health and county agencies des-
ignated to administer crippled children's program niay accept handicapped child
believed to have severe chronic disease or severe physical handicap, as determined
by the State Director of Public Health, for diagnosis irrespective of whether child
actually has eligible medical condition as specified in provision relating to definition
of handicapped child.
   Requires department to keep and publish annually specified data in relation to
diagnosis of children diagnosed in connection with the program.
   To become operative July 1, 1970.
Ch. 1528 ( A B 261) M U L F O R D Adds Sec. 171f, P e n . C , re state capitol.
  Makes it a misdemeanor for any person or group of persons to willfully and"
knowingly: enter or remain within or upon any p a r t of the chamber of either
house of Legislature unless authorized, pursuant to rules adopted or permission
granted by either such house, to enter or remain within or upon a part of cham-
ber of either such house; engage in any conduct within the State Capitol which
disrupts orderly conduct of official business; or picket within State Capitol. Pro-
vides that nothing in such provisions shall forbid any act of Members of Legisla-
ture, employees of members, officers and employees of Legislature or any committee
or subcommittee thereof, and officers and employees of either house of Legislature
or any committee or subcommittee thereof, which is performed in lawful dis-
charge of official duties.
Ch. 1529 (AB 271) B R A T H W A I T B Amends Sees. 96, 2922, 2924, L a b . C , re-
     employment termination: garnishment, attachment.
  Provides that no employer may discharge any employee by reason of the fact
that his earnings have been subjected to garnishment for one indebtedness prior
to a final order or judgment of a court. Provides t h a t the wages of a n individual
whose employment has been so terminated shall continue until reinstatement if such
termination is found to be in violation of above provisions; provided t h a t wages
shall not continue for more than 30 days. Provides that the employee shall give
notice to his employer of his intention to make such a wage claim within 30
days after being laid off or discharged and shall file a wage claim with the Labor
Commission within 60 days of being laid off or discharged. Allows the Labor-
Commissioner to take assignment of such wage claims.
Ch. 1530 ( A B 388) VASCONCELLOS Amends Sees. 9012 and 9013, E d . C ,
    re schools.
  Authorizes issuance and distribution of sectarian, partisan, and denominational
publications at junior colleges and provides that specified prohibitions relating to
propaganda and organizational solicitations are not applicable with respect to jun-
ior colleges, provided such activities are carried out in such a way as not to
impede orderly conduct of schools and are subject to rules and regulations of the
governing board. Requires such rules and regulations to prohibit publications which
advocate the commission of an unlawful act.
Ch. 1531 (AB 411) B A D H A M Adds Art. 4.5 (commencing with Sec. 9965),
      Ch. 21, Div. 3, B . & P.C., re employment agencies.
   Requires counselors, as defined, to register with Bureau of Employment Agen-
cies. Adds related provisions.
Ch. 1532 ( A B 443) B A G L E Y New act, r e sales tax.
  Requires Controller to contract for study of the computation of sales tax li-
abilities.
  Appropriates $48,000 for study.
  In effect immediately.
Ch. 1533 ( A B 444) B A G L E Y Amends Sees. 6359, 6359.4, R. & T.C., re sales
     and use tax.
   Specifies that "food products" exempt from sales tax include fruit and vege-
table juices, and nonalcoholic, noncarbonated beverages, and exclude bottled water,
whether liquid or frozen.
   Makes sales and use taxes applicable to food products sold a t certain estab-
lishments where admission charged.
228                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Declares vending machine operator to be a consumer, and not a retailer, of
property which sells at retail for 15 cents, rather than 10 cents, or less and
which is sold through a vending machine.
Ch. 1534 (AB 524) QUIMBY Adds Sec. 318.5, P e n . C , re penal ordinances.
   Specifies that counties or eities may enact ordinances directly regulating the
exposure of the genitals or buttocks of or the breasts of any person who acts as
a waiter, waitress, or entertainer, whether or not the owner of the establishment
in which the activity is performed employs or pays any compensation to such per-
son to perform such activity, in an establishment which serves food, beverages, or
food and beverages, including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, for consump-
tion on the premises of such establishment.
   Exempts theater, concert hall, or similar establishment which is primarily de-
voted to theatrical performances from such ordinances.
Ch. 1535 (AB 61) W A K E F I E L D Adds Sec. 318.6, P e n . C , re local penal
     ordinances.
   Provides that cities and counties can enact ordinance prohibitng conduct rela-
tive to any live acts, demonstrations, or exhibitions occurring in public places,
places open to the public, or places open to public view and involving the ex-
posure of private parts, buttocks, or female breasts, if such conduct is not ex-
pressly authorized or prohibited by the Penal Code.
   Exempts theater, concert hall, or similar establishment, which is primarily de-
voted to theatrical performances, from such ordinances.
Ch. 1536 (AB 410) BADHAM Amends Sees. 9941, 9942, 9946, and 9949, B. &
     P.C., re employment agencies.
  Authorizes the Bureau of Employment Agencies, when issuing an employment
agency license, to restrict the type of business which may be conducted thereunder
to one or more of the following categories: general, babysitting, domestic, modeling,
and farm labor.
  Requires an applicant when applying for an employment agency license, if the
bureau has established such categories, to specify whether he intends to engage
in the general employment agency business or in one or more of the other cate-
gories. Requires an applicant to pass the examination in each category of license
for which he is applying.
Ch. 1537 ( A B 591) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Repeals Ch. 3 (commencing with Sec.
     3000), Div. 3, L a b . C , re terms of employment.
  Deletes provisions relating to master-servant relationship including provisions
dealing with conditions and termination of employment.
Ch. 1538 (AB 823) LEROY F . G R E E N E Amends Sec. 31026, E d . C , re com-
     pact for education.
   Extends operative date of statute enacting Compact for Education to December
81, 1973.
   Provides that at its 1973 Regular Session and each fourth year thereafter,
rather than at its 1969 Regular Session and each fourth year thereafter, the
Legislature shall review California's participation in the Compact for Education
to determine whether California should continue to be a party to the compact
and thus extend the operation of the statute providing for California's participa-
tion in the compact.
   Appropriates $12,050 in augmentation of Item 84 of Budget Act of 1969.
Ch. 1539 (AB 837) M I L L E R Amends Sec. 1413, L a b . C , re agricultural work-
     ers.
  Eliminates the expulsion of certain agricultural workers and employers from
the scope of the California F a i r Employment Practice Act.
Ch. 1540 (AB 865) QUIMBY Amends Sec. 20017.75, Gov.C, re Public Em-
     ployees' Retirement System.
   Includes active law enforcement pei'sonnel of the California State Police Divi-
sion as "law enforcement members" of Public Employees' Retirement System.
Ch. 1541 ( A B 877) B R O W N Amends Sec. 2736, adds Sees. 2736.6, 2786.6, B .
     & P.C., re nursing.
  Revises requirements which an applicant, applying for a license to practice
registered nursing, must comply with.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         229

   Specifies that applicant for such license, who is graduate from school of nursing
in country outside United States and who has complied with specified provisions
shall qualify for such license by successfully passing examination prescribed by
California Board of Nursing Education and Nurse Registration.
   Requires board to deny any accreditation application made by, and to revoke
the accreditation given to, any school of nursing which fails to give student appli-
cants credit, in the field of nursing, as prescribed by board regulations, for pre-
vious education and the opportunity to obtain credit for other acquired knowledge.
   Requires board to determine by regulation additional preparation in nursing, in
school approved by board, which is required for vocational nurse licensed under
specified provisions, to be eligible to take examination for specified license as a
registered nurse. Prohibits board from requiring more than 30 units in nursing and
related science subjects to satisfy such preparation.
Ch. 1542 (AB 878) B R O W N Adds Sec. 2881.1, B . & P.O., re schools of vo-
     cational nursing.
  Requires the Board of Vocational Nurse and Psychiatric Technician Examiners
of the State of California to deny any accreditation application made by, and to
revoke the accreditation given to, any school of vocational nursing which fails to
give student applicants credit, in the field of nursing, as prescribed by board reg-
ulations, for previous education and the opportunity to obtain credit for other ac-
quired knowledge.
Ch. 1543 (AB 1052) S I E R O T Y Amends Sees. 310, 321, Elec.C, re registra-
        tion of voters.
    Requires person to state in affidavit of registration whether he has ever been con-
victed of a felony, rather than that he is not disqualified by reason of felony
conviction.
    Requires the affidavit of registration to contain a statement that not all felony
convictions will disqualify affiant from voting and directing him to contact regis-
t r a r for a determination of his eligibility to vote.
    Incorporates additional changes made to Sees. 310 and 321 by Chapter 402 of the
1969 Statutes.
Ch. 1544 (AB 1073) MONAGAN New act, re bonds: University of California.
   Provides, conditioned upon approval of state electorate, for issuance of state
bonds in total amounts not exceeding $246,300,000, and expenditure of proceeds
for health science facilities a t the University of California, as may be provided for
by the Legislature.
   Calls special election, to be consolidated with 1970 direct primary, for submis-
sion of bond proposal to electors.
Ch. 1545 (AB 1162) CORY Adds Sec. 13443.6, E d . C , re certificated employ-
     ees.
  Provides that, unless notice of release is received by March 15, the contracts of
certain certificated employees holding administrative or supervisorial positions shall
be renewed on same terms and conditions as employee's last contract.
Ch. 1546 (AB 1174) M I L I A S Adds Sec. 21200.2, Gov.C, re Public Employ-
     ees' Retirement System.
  Provides that the effective date of a member's retirement under P.E.R.S. may
be fixed by the board a t a date earlier than the first of the month in which an
application for retirement is received in the office of the retirement board in
specified cases.
Ch. 1547 (AB 1298) B R A T H W A I T E Adds Title 7.7 (commencing with Sec.
     67410), Gov.C, re Southern California transportation.
   Creates Southern California Transportation Study Commission, composed of 26
members and comprising the Counties of Ventura, Los Angeles, Orange, San Ber-
nardino, Riverside, and Imperial. Directs commission, in coordination with the
Southern California Association of Governments, to study regional transportation
problems and make recommendations thereon. Requires commission to file progress
report with Governor and Legislature by fifth day of 1971 Regular Session, and a
final report by fifth day of 1972 Regular Session. Declares existence of commis-
sion terminated on 91st day after adjournment of 1972 Regular Session.
230                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1548 ( A B 1354) T O W N S E N D Adds Sees. 14112.1 and 14216.5, E d . C , re
    Teachers' Retirement Fund.
  Requires state to deposit into the Teachers' Retirement Fund a portion of the
annual appropriation in a lump sum when requested by the Teachers' Retire-
ment Board. Requires remainder of appropriation to be deposited monthly.
  Incorporates changes in recodified State Teachers' Retirement Law proposed by
AB 1728, to be operative only upon enactment of AB 1728.
Ch. 1549 (AB 1403) Z E N O V I C H Adds Sec. 9357.46, Gov.C, re Legislators'
     Retirement Law.
   Permits former member of Legislators' Retirement System who is a member of
Public Employees' Retirement System or State Teachers' Retirement System and
who withdraws accumulated contributions upon leaving the system to redeposit such
funds with interest into the fund and to then be eligible to retire under the Leg-
islators' Retirement Law, if other qualifications are met.
Ch. 1550 (AB 1404) D U F F Y Amends Sees. 437, 437.1, 437.2, and 437.4, H . &
      S.C., re Health Planning Council.
   Increases and revises membership of Health Planning Council from 13 to 21
members, and specifies who is to appoint new members. Requires that chairman
and vice chairman of council be appointed by the Governor. Directs that chairman
be appointed from the representatives of the general consumer public or public
officials, with specified exceptions, rather than that he be the Secretary of the Hu-
man Relations Agency.
   Directs that new members hold office for four-year terms.
   Changes from 7 to majority number of votes of voting members of council nec-
essary to appoint or remove director.
   Authorizes council to establish standing committees, and appoint persons, who
are not members of council, to such committees, as is necessary to carry out
purposes of health planning provisions. Specifies that members of such committees
serve without compensation, but be reimbursed for specified expenses.
   Removes requirement that council meet at least quarterly.
Ch. 1551 ( A B 1415) VASCONCELLOS Amends Sec. 13188, E d . C , re Cali-
     fornia teaching credentials.
  Provides that social sciences includes ethnic studies, in definition of "academic
subject matter area."
Ch. 1552 ( A B 1534) L E R O Y F . G R E E N E Amends Sec. 8575, repeals and
     adds Ch. 9 (commencing with Sec. 12820), repeals Ch. 10 (commencing
     with Sec. 12851), Div. 9, Ed. C , re testing programs.
   Enacts California School Testing Act of 1969. Declares objectives of act. Re-
quires school districts to conduct testing programs in accordance with rules and
regulations to be adopted by State Board of Education. Requires board to ap-
prove tests to be used. Requires board to evaluate effectiveness of various content
courses. Requires study and report to Legislature.
   Authorizes board to accept federal and other funds for studies under the program.
   Requires annual report by Department of Education to Legislature, State Board
of Education, and to each school district containing an analysis of the testing
program, including tests conducted under the Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act of
1965.
   Repeals present provisions re testing programs.
   Provides t h a t the requirement that the State Board of Education prepare and
distribute model minimum academic standards for graduation to each school dis-
trict maintaining a high school for its consideration shall not be applicable until
July 1, 1970.
Ch. 1553 (AB 1546) Z E N O V I C H Amends Sec. 18502, H . & S.C., re mobile-
     home p a r k s : permits.
   Authorizes the Commission of Housing and Community Development to estab-
lish separate fee schedule for mobilehhome park operating permits to defray en-
forcement costs where Department of Housing and Community Development is en-
forcing agency. Such fees are not to exceed initial fee of $25 per park and addi-
tional $2 per lot.
   To be effective until 91st day after final adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                             231

Oh. 1554 ( A B 1563) F O N G Adds- Sec. 20804.8, Gov.C, re Public Employees'
    Retirement System.
  Permits retired state miscellaneous member to receive service credit for service
rendered a committee of the Legislature in 1931, 1932, and 1933, and for which
he was compensated by Item 256.1 of the Budget Act of 1967.
  Provides for prospective increase in retirement allowance on the basis of such
credit.
Ch. 1555 (AB 1820) S U B C O M M I T T E E ON VOCATIONAL AND T E C H N I -
      CAL T R A I N I N G O F T H E A S S E M B L Y C O M M I T T E E ON E D U C A T I O N .
      Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., E d . C , re vocational education.
   Substitutes Vocational Education Acts of 1963 and 1968 in lieu of such acts of
1936 and 1946 in declaration that state accepts provision of, and funds provided
by Congress for, such acts.
   Substitutes United States Commissioner of Education and United States Office
of Education in place of Federal Board for Vocational Education, which has been
abolished, as federal agencies State Board of Education is to cooperate with in
administration of federal vocational education acts.
   Deletes obsolete requirement that Department of Education is to develop and
implement experimental pilot summer vocational education program.
   Creates California Advisory Council on Vocational Education and Technical
Training. Prescribes its membership, duties, and responsibilities.
   Creates Vocational Education Program Evaluation Unit, with staff selected jointly,
by State Board of Education and Board of Governors of California Community
Colleges, in Department of Education to assist council in evaluating effectiveness
of vocational education and technical training programs maintained by public schools.
   Establishes staff in department to design, implement, and maintain a basic in-
tegrated statewide information system for vocational and technical training. Speci-
fies minimum data-gathering and analysis capabilities of system.
   Creates vocational areas, not to exceed 15, with boundaries to be determined'
within 90 days after effective date of this act, by Director of H u m a n Resources
Development, Director of Vocational Education, and Chancellor of California Com-
munity Colleges. Prescribes its membership, duties, and functions.
   Requires each area vocational committee, within one year after its initial meet-
ing, to develop and submit to the state board and board of governors, an area-
master plan providing for maximum coordination between technical, vocational,
adult, and continuation education agencies in the area, together with recommenda-
tions for plan's implementation. Requires each such committee to report to state
board, board of governors, and council, no later than March 1, 1970, on progress
toward master plan, and recommendations for short-term improvement of existing
vocational education programs.
   Requires state board and board of governors, with advice of council to develop
state master plan, and to amend plan annually, within 1 year after receipt of
 area master plans, and to submit such state master plan annually to Legislature.
   Specifies operative dates.
   Specifies legislative intent.
   Requires state board and board of governors in approving any state plans for
 administration of federal funds for vocational education, to consider financial pro-
 visions for support of vocational education areas. Directs state board and board
of governors to reserve annually from whatever funds, $150,000 for support of
council.
   Designates act as Vocational and Technical Training Act of 1969.
 Ch. 1556 ( A B 1821) M I L I A S Adds Art. 10 (commencing with Section 6260),
      Ch. 1, Div. 5, Elec.C, re write-in votes.
   Allows voters to write in name of person for President of the U.S. on primary
 ballot. Requires person to file endorsement of his candidacy not later than 8 days
"before primary election.
   Requires person to file list of delegates to national convention with the Secre-
 tary of State within 10 days of primary if person receives plurality of votes.
    If person fails to file list, state central committee shall file list within 10 days
 after such failure and the delegation would go unpledged.
232                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1557 ( A B 1842) FONG Amends and renumbers Sec. 507, adds Sec. 531.4,
    B . & T.C., re property escaping assessment.
  Authorises escape assessment of property held or used in a profession, trade or
business where assessee files a property statement or report which fails to report
such property accurately and provides for penalties and interest.
Ch. 1558 (AB 1883) B A R N E S Amends, adds various sees., Gov. C , re Public
     Employees' Retirement System.
   Redefines the term "fireman" for purposes of provisions relating to Federal Old
Age and Survivors' Insurance to include specified employees of the Division of
Forestry, Department of Conservation and any employee of a public agency other
than the state or University of California in a position designated as fireman by
the board.
   Provides that survivors' allowance provisions of P.E.R.S. shall apply to state
or local members whose employer is subject to such provisions, and whose services
were included in the federal system, in any period after such inclusion is termi-
nated. Makes related changes.
   Increases public employer contributions with respect to forestry members by speci-
fied amount.
   To be operative on the first of the month following the month in which statutes
enacted at the 1969 Regular Session are effective.
Ch. 1559 (AB 1898) B R A T H W A I T E Amends Sec. 13168, E d . C , re life di-
     plomas;
   Permits teaching experience in private high schools accredited by Western Asso-
ciation of Schools and Colleges to be counted for time as part of qualifications for
life diploma.
Ch. 1560 (AB 1929) S I E R O T Y Adds P t . 5.5 (commencing with Sec. 19955),
     Div. 13, H. & S.C., re public buildings, physically handicapped.
   Requires public accommodation, defined as a building, structure or improved
area used primarily by the general public as place of gathering or amusement, con-
structed with private funds to meet specified standards for use of public buildings
by the physically handicapped. Specifies that responsibility for enforcement of such
standards under provisions of act is that of local building department.
   To become operative July 1, 1970.
Ch. 1561 (AB 1973) W I L S O N Amends and adds various sees., H. & S.C.,
     R. & T.C., re community redevelopment; property taxation.
  Permits agency, a t request of legislative body, to prepare applications for federal
programs and grants, as specified, and to plan and carry out such programs. Re-
quires legislative body to file with Secretary of State a copy of ordinance suspend-
ing or dissolving agency. Deletes specific items required to be included in redevelop-
ment plan in general description of proposed method of financing redevelopment
project area. Allows agency, at request of legislative body, to accept land conveyed
by public or private entity, and to sell or lease such property, as specified, for re-
location of persons displaced by governmental action.
   Expands property tax "welfare" exemption of federally financed housing for el-
derly or handicapped families to include such housing financed under Sec. 236 of
Public Law 90-448.
Ch. 1562 (AB 1977) W I L S O N Adds P t . 9 (commencing with Sec. 37500),
      Div. 24, H. & S.C., re home ownership training.
   Establishes California Low-Income Home Ownership Training and Management
Program, to be administered by Director of Housing and Community Development,
to assist housing authorities and other housing developers to conduct programs to
train and qualify low-income families for home ownership.
   Requires Department of Housing and Community Development to implement
program as a pilot study and requires department to make a final report of its
findings and recommendations to the Legislature not later than March 15, 1972.
   To be operative until June 30, 1972.
Ch. 1563 (AB 2026) M A C D O N A L D Adds Art. 2.7 (commencing with Sec.
     290), Ch. 2, P t . 1, Div. 1, and Sees. 304, 305, H. & S.C., re health care.
   Requires licensed physician and surgeon or other person, engaged in prenatal care
of pregnant woman or attending such woman a t time of delivery, to obtain blood
specimen of such woman within specified period.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           233

   Specifies that such specimen be submitted to licensed clinical laboratory for de-
termination of rhesus ( R h ) blood type and results reported to such physician and
surgeon or such other person and such woman. Exempts physican and surgeon or
such other person who has knowledge of such woman's blood type and accepts re-
sponsibility for information from these provisions. Requires t h a t State Board of
Public Health adopt rules and regulations for implementation of such provisions.
   Makes exception for woman on basis of religious beliefs or practices.
   Requires licensed physician and surgeon or other person attending newborn infant
diagnosed as having had rhesus isoimmunization hemolytic disease to report such
condition to State Department of Public Health on department's prescribed forms.
   Requires department to report number of reported cases of rhesus ( R h ) iso-
immunization hemolytic disease to Legislature on fifth legislative day of 1971
Regular Session of Legislature.
Ch. 1564 (AB 2083) KNOX Adds Art. 3.5 (commencing with Sec. 5465), Oh.
     6, P t . 3, Div. 5, H. & S.C., re election for bond issuance.
  Authorizes and prescribes procedure by which any district which is authorized
to provide sewer facilities may incur a bonded indebtedness with majority, rather
than a frds, vote "of registered voters voting a t election on iccurring the indebted-
ness.
  To be effective until December 31, 1973.
Ch. 1565 ( A B 2109) C H A P P I E Adds Ch. 12 (commencing with Sec. 19100),
     Pt. 6, Div. 9, W. & I.C., and Ch. 7 (commencing with Sec. 19700), P t . 2, Div.
      10 as proposed to be added to W. & I.C. by SB 840, re blind rehabilitation
     services.
   Creates Vocational Rehabilitation Appeals Board in Department of Rehabilita-
tion. Empowers board to hear appeals from applicants or clients dissatisfied with
any action of department, relating to application for a receipt of services, but only
after review requested before a member or members of the department's supervi-
sory staff. Gives right of discovery to applicant or client and provides t h a t writ of
mandamus shall be exclusive review of final decision fdv applicant, client or af-
fected county.
   Transfers board's authority to make final fair hearing decision to the director
of the department upon formal ruling t h a t such authority vested in the board does
not conform with federal requirements.
Ch. 1566 (AB 2129) W I L S O N Amends Sec. 2, Ch. 1437, Stats. 1968, re study
     of harmful drugs.
   Removes 1968-1969 fiscal year limitation on appropriation made by Chapter
1437, Statutes 1968 for study on harmful drugs and hallucinogenic substances by
Department of Education. Appropriates $20,000 from General Fund to Department
of Education for such study.
Ch. 1567 ( A B 2136) L A N T E R M A N Amends, adds, various sees., P.U.C., R.
     & T.C., re sales and use taxes.
   Authorizes the Board of Directors of the Southern California Rapid Transit
District to impose sales and use taxes at the rate of one-half of 1 percent for a
single period of six months in conformity with the provisions providing for the
administration of such taxes by the State Board of Equalization for the San F r a n -
cisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District. Provides that the question of imposing the
taxes need not be presented to the voters.
   Requires that all funds collected from the district's sales and use tax shall be de-
posited in the transit district public transportation improvement fund in the dis-
trict's treasury and allocated to the district and to cities within the district op-
erating public transportation systems on the basis of a formula based on mileage.
Ch. 1568 ( A B 2189) VEYSEY Adds Ch. 5.10 (commencing with Sec. 5799.51),
    Div. 6, E d . C , re outstanding educators.
  Requires State Board of Education to annually designate not more than 20
elementary school principals as Outstanding Educators of the Year on basis of
pupils' achievement as measured by standard reading test. Requires that persons
so designated be principal at school at which at least one of specified special pro-
grams is in operation.
  Provides that act shall remain in effect only until 91st day after final adjourn-
ment of 1973 Regular Session of Legislature.
234                1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 1569 (AB 2218) L E W I S Amends Sec. 10293, I n s . C , re insurance: dis-
     ability policies.
   Deletes provision which requires for approval of Insurance Commissioner that
individual hospital, medical, or surgical insurance policy contain on its face page
either a schedule of coverages or brief description of policy. Deletes other related
provisions.
   Eliminates provision making section inapplicable to policies delivered on or be-
fore June 30, 1962.
Ch. 1570 ( A B 2219) L E W I S Amends Sec. 23754, E d . C , re state college em-
     ployees.
  Provides that no admission fee or tuition fee shall be required of any student
who is a full-time employee of the California State Colleges, rather than only a
nonresident student who is a full-time employee.
  Provides that no admission fee or tuition fee shall be required of a child or
spouse of a full-time employee, rather than only of a nonresident student who is
the child or spouse of any employee of the California State Colleges.
Ch. 1571 ( A B 2239) Z'BERG Amends, adds, repeals, various sees., Civ.C, re
      dance studio contracts.
    Separates provisions relating to dance studio contracts from those pertaining
to health studio contracts.
    Specifies maximum monetary amount which may be required by contract for
dance studio lessons and other services.
    Provides for cancellation of contract for dance lessons and other services in spec-
ified circumstances, with return of specified percentages of fee paid by student.
   Makes other related changes.
Ch. 1572 (AB 2245) M I L I A S Adds Art. 14 (commencing with Section 53940),
     Ch. 4, P t . 1, Div. 2, Title 5, Gov.C, re pleasure riding tax.
  Authorizes counties and regional park districts to impose an areawide privilege
tax, not exceeding $10 per animal per year, on certain pleasure riding animals for
privilege of access to and use of public areas designated for use by such animals.
Requires revenue to be used for acquiring and developing riding trails. Payment
of tax may be made a condition to use of riding trails. Requires taxing agency to
provide owner of animal with durable record of payment of tax.
Ch. 1573 (AB 2271) STULL Amends Sec. 18252.3, repeals Sec. 18252.5, Ed.
     C , re automobile driver training.
   Deletes requirement that the teacher-pupil ratio in automobile driver training
classes must be established in the same manner as* such ratios are established in
other classes maintained by school district.
   Removes restriction that teacher of automobile driver training may not be as-
signed, as part of his regular schedule, classes causing his teaching assignment to
exceed the teaching assignment of teachers of other classes.
   Extends authorization to conduct driver training programs to county superin-
tendents of schools, California Youth Authority, and Department of Education.
Ch. 1574 (AB 2281) S T U L L Amends Sees. 10163.5, 10489.2, I n s . C , re insur-
        ance : insurance and annuities.
    Permits, in case of ordinary life insurance and industrial insurance, issued from
J a n u a r y 1, 1970, through December 31, 1975, use of 4 percent per annum interest
rate in calculating adjusted premiums, cash surrender values, and paid-up non-
forfeiture benefits on basis of Insurance Commissioner's 1958 Standard Ordinary
Mortality Table.
    Permits, for purposes of minimum standard for valuation, use of 4 percent per
annum interest in valuing contracts entered into, and life insurance policies issued
from January 1, 1970, through December 31, 1975.
    Permits, for purpose of minimum standard for valuation, use of 5, rather than
4, percent interest in valuing annuity and pure endowment contracts issued from
J a n u a r y 1, 1969, through December 3 1 , 1975, with commencement of benefits de-
ferred not more than 10 years from date of issue and with premiums payable in
one sum.
Ch. 1575 (AB 2287) STULL Amends Sec. 7.6, Gov.C, re deputies of con-
     stitutional officers.
  Allows Superintendent of Public Instruction to designate certain appointive dep-
uties and associates whose positions are exempt from state civil service to partici-
                    1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          235

pate in his place in the proceedings of boards, commissions, committees and other
governing bodies of which he is a member, except proceedings of Reapportionment
Commission, Board of Trustees of California State Colleges and Regents of Uni-
versity of California.
Ch. 1576 (AB 2232) M I L I A S Adds various sees., F . & G.C., re licenses, fees,
     and privilege taxes.
   Increases fees for various commercial fishing licenses, boat registration fees and
privilege taxes until specified dates.
  Requires department report commercial fishing program income and expendi-
tures for fiscal year, 1969-1970, and proposed and actual commercial fishing pro-
gram income and expenditures for fiscal year, 1970-1971, identifying, to extent
practicable, additional expenditures resulting from this act, to Legislature by J a n u -
ary 1, 1971.
Ch. 1577 ( S B 1393) MOSCONB Adds Art. 6 (commencing with Section 18801),
     Ch. 4, Div. 14, E d . C , re school breakfast-lunch programs.
   Requires Superintendent of Public Instruction to allocate $1 for each $1 spent
by local school district or nonprofit school or agency during preceding fiscal year
for provision of free or reduced-price meals for children from low-income families.
Requires amount allocated to be used exclusively for providing free or reduced-
price meals for eligible children and provides that amount allocated may not be used
in computation of amount spent for such purpose by district, school, or agency.
   Prohibits allocation in behalf of children residing on premises of school or agency.
   Appropriates $5,000,000 for purposes of act.
Ch. 1578 ( S B 531) M A R K S Amends and adds various sees., E d . C , repeals
      Sec. 6, Ch. 106, Stats. 1966, 1st Ex. Sess., re compensatory education.
   Extends to 91st day after adjournment of the 1972 Regular Session of the Leg-
islature provisions re demonstration programs in intensive instruction in reading
and mathematics for low-achieving pupils, instead of terminating operation of pro-
visions on 91st day after adjournment of the 1969 Regular Session of the Legisla-
ture.
   Deletes termination date of 91st day after adjournment of the 1969 Regular Ses-
sion of the Legislature re act providing for special teacher employment programs,
demonstration programs in intensive instruction in reading and mathematics for
low-achieving pupils, school housing aid for compensatory education purposes, and
school housing aid for districts impacted by seasonal agricultural employment.
   Requires apportionments for special teacher employment programs to be based
upon average statewide teacher salary, rather than $7,000, per full-time equivalent
classroom teacher.
   Prohibits recommendation or approval of programs of compensatory education
without assurance that classroom teachers and other certificated personnel hold cre-
dentials authorizing such service.
   Prescribes standards for approval of projects under such programs, and requires
continual review of approved projects.
   Requires annual reports, rather than a report in 1969, re demonstration pro-
grams, and specifies elements of such reports.
   Appropriates $9,500,000 for compensatory education: $6,500,000 to be used for
 reduction of teacher-pupil ratio in classes conducted under McAteer Act, and $3,-
 000,000 to be used for demonstration programs in intensive instruction in reading
 and mathematics for low-achieving pupils.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1579 ( S B 164) ALQTJIST Adds Art. 4 (commencing with Sec. 25524),
     Ch. 3, Div. 18.5, E d . C , re community colleges.
   Establishes extended opportunity programs and services for community colleges
to be taught by instructors approved by the governing board to provide positive en-
couragement directed to enrollment of students handicapped by language, social,
and economic disadvantages, and to facilitate their successful participation in the
educational pursuits of the college. Requires Board of Governors of the California
Community Colleges to adopt implementing rules and regulations.
   Creates Advisory Committee on Extended Opportunity Programs and Services to
report annually to board on progress community colleges have made toward educa-
tional opportunities for all students to advise the board on implementation of t h e
act.
236                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

   Authorizes governing board of any district to establish Extended Opportunity
Program which may include tutorial services, remedial courses, multicultural stud-
ies, counseling services, and recruitment services. Districts are also authorized,
upon approval of board, to establish Extended Opportunity Services which may
include loans or grants to meet living costs, student fees, transportation, scholar-
ships, work-experience programs, and job placement programs.
   Requires Board of Governors to include in its annual budget the estimated state
funds needed to carry out the act.
   Makes provision for allowances for costs of such programs and services.
   Provides that from any funds appropriated for purposes of the act not more than
$130,000 is to be used for administering extended opportunity programs and serv-
ices and study of withdrawal student. Requires relevant state agencies to cooperate
in such study.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1580 ( S B 281) W E D W O R T H Amends Sec. 8901, Gov.C, re salary of leg-
     islators.
   Increases annual salary of Members of Legislature from $16,000 to $19,200,
effective at noon on January 4, 1971.
Oh. 1581 ( S B 362) C O L L I E R Amends Sec. 12001, Gov.C, re Governor's aides'
     salaries.
  Sets maximum level for salaries of Governor's aides at $20,000, instead of $16,-
500, except for 8 secretaries at $27,500, instead of $20,000, each and executive sec-
retary at $35,000, instead of $24,500.
Ch. 1582 ( S B 1034) M I L L S Amends Sees. 9359.01, 9360.7, Gov.C, re Legis-
      lators' Retirement System.
   Limits provision making eligible for retirement members who do not choose to
run or who are defeated following reapportionment of their districts to members
first elected prior to December 31, 1969. Makes provision applicable to member who
resigns his office upon election or appointment to another public office during the
term in which the district was reapportioned. Permits application for retirement
to be filed at any time during members' term of office or within 30 days thereafter.
States any application not specifying a different date as the effective date of re-
tirement is deemed to be an application for retirement as of the day after the ex-
piration of the members' term of office.
   Provides that spouse of member who dies before becoming eligible for retirement,
but who could have retired due to reapportionment had he chosen not to run, shall
be entitled to same benefits as spouse of member who dies before retirement but
after becoming eligible to retire.
Ch. 1583 ( S B 1226) COOMBS Amends and adds various sees., B. & P.O., re
      contractors: home improvement.
   Includes specifically within definition of "contractor," persons engaged in business
of home improvement.
   Makes it a misdemeanor for any salesman to fail to account for, or to remit to
his contractor, any payment received and for any person to use a form that does
not disclose the name of the contractor principal by whom he is employed, in any
home improvement transaction or other transaction involving a work of improve-
ment.
   Makes it a misdemeanor for contractor to promise or offer owner compensation
or reward for the procurement, or placing of home improvement business with oth-
ers ; but permits gifts of value not exceeding $5 per transaction when advertising
if gift not conditioned on obtaining of a home improvement contract.
   Makes it a misdemeanor, under certain conditions, for a salesman to receive
payment from any other person except his contractor or to make any payment to
person other than his employer, and for contractor to make any payments to any
person except a licensee not subject to or exempted from requirements of Contrac-
tors' License Law.
   Raises the penalty of maximum fine from $1,000 to $2,000 when a person acts
in the capacity of a contractor in this state without a license and has been pre-
viously convicted of such offense.
   Makes it a crime, under specified conditions, for any person to accept or receive
a completion certificate for home improvement or other work improvement trans-
action with knowledge that such document is false and that the performance is
not substantially completed.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         237

  Provides for payment of exemplary damages of $500 and reasonable attorneys
fees, in addition to actual damages, to any person who is induced to contract for
work of improvement in reliance on false or fraudulent representations.
   Specifies various grounds for disciplinary action, including various acts of fraud.
   Specifies the requirements of any home improvement contract where specified
security is given or the aggregate contract price exceeds specified limits and certain
other conditions are present. Permits registrar and other specified persons to use
injunctive relief in certain violations.
   Makes related changes.
Ch. 1584 ( S B 1301) D E U K M E J I A N Adds Sec. 3434, Civ.C, re creditor's li-
      ability.
   Specifies that no lender, who loans money, the proceeds of which are or may be
used by borrower to finance specified activities with respect to real or personal
property, in absence of any relationship between lender and borrower other than
the relationship of lender and borrower, shall be liable to third person for any
loss or damage occasioned by any defect in real or personal property used in such
activities, or for any loss or damage resulting from failure of borrower to use due
care in such activities, unless such loss or damage is a result of an act of the
lender outside the scope of the activities of a lender of money or unless the lender
has been a party to misrepresentations with respect to such real or personal prop-
erty.
Ch. 1585 (AB 645) F O R A N Adds various sees., P.U.C., re airports.
   Requires the Department of Aeronautics to adopt noise standards not in conflict
with federal law for all airports operating under a valid permit issued by the de-
partment.
   Provides for $1,000 penalty for each infraction of the noise standards, and makes
violation a misdemeanor.
   Establishes an advisory committee appointed by the Governor to assist the de-
partment in drawing up the regulations. Sets forth criteria therefor, including
flexibility of noise standards, local enforcement and control, and disposition of
penalties.
   Requires department to report to the Legislature on the regulations adopted
prior to April 1, 1970, and makes them effective on J a n u a r y 1, 1971.
   Makes an appropriation from the General Fund of $50,000, as a loan, for the
expenses of the department in connection with the adoption of noise regulations r
and provides for repayment.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1586 (AB 1117) D E D D E H Adds Art. 2.7 (commencing with Sec. 13250),
     Ch. 2, Div. 10, Ed. C , re teacher preparation.
   Requires each school after July 1, 1974, having a substantial, as defined, popula-
tion of students of diverse ethnic backgrounds to provide an in-service prepara-
tion program designed to prepare teachers and other professional school service
personnel to understand and effectively relate to the history, culture, and current
problems of the students of diverse ethnic backgrounds and their environment.
   Requires Department of Education to develop a list of approved courses which
shall be considered acceptable for meeting requirements of the act. Requires de-
partment to coordinate development of adequate course offerings and to provide
for necessary staff.
Ch. 1587 ( A B 1244) S C H A B A R U M Amends See. 6357, adds Ch. 2.5 (com-
     mencing with Sec. 7370), Pt. 2, Div. 2, R. & T.G., re motor vehicle fuel tax.
  Excludes aircraft jet fuel from sales tax exemption for motor vehicle fuel.
  Imposes 2-cent-per-gallon tax on use or sale of aircraft jet fuel, with specified
exceptions. Provides for administration and collection of such tax. Appropriates
revenues for refunds and transfers the balance to the Aeronautics Fund.
Ch. 1588 (AB 1998) CORY Amends Sec. 18251.4, E d . C , re driver education.
  Deletes authorization to Superintendent of Public Instruction to establish a unit
within Department of Education to provide supervisory and consulting services to
public schools in driver education and training.
  Authorizes rather than requires superintendent to employ necessary personnel to
promote and direct automobile driver education and training in public schools.
238                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

  Provides that expenses resulting therefrom are to be provided from such funds
as may be appropriated by Legislature, rather than by reimbursement, from Driver
Training Penalty Assessment Fund.
Oh. 1589 (AB 2212) D E N T Amends, repeals, various sees. E d . C , Lab.C, re
     employment of minors.
   Revises the number of hours which a minor may work from not more than such
time when added to hours of required school time as equals 8 hours but not to ex-
ceed 4 hours, to not more than 4 hours in any day in which he is required by
law to attend school. Deletes the requirements that an employer maintain a sep-
arate register concerning minors in his employ and post a notice stating the work-
ing hours per day of minors in every room in which minors are employed. De-
letes the requirement that a principal of the school which a minor attends add the
minor's hours of compulsory school attendance and employment and notify an
employer who employs a pupil who has served 8 hours in compulsory school at-
tendance and employment combined.

Oh. 1590 (AB 2272) S T U L L Amends Sec. 13525, adds Sec. 18252.6, Ed.C.
     re automobile driver instruction.
  Provides that requirement of annual salary of not less than $6,000 to be paid
persons employed full time, or proportionately less if not employed full time, in
position requiring certification qualifications, is not applicable to persons employed
exclusively to teach driver training who possess only a standard designated sub-
jects teaching credential in public safety and accident prevention.
   Grants sole discretion to governing board to set salary scales and criteria for
advancement, which shall be made public, for such persons.
Ch. 1591 (AB 596) M A C D O N A L D Amends Sec. 987.16, adds Sec. 987.16a,
      M. & V.C., re veterans: property acquisitions.
   Authorizes, subject to prescribed limitations, subsequent Cal-Vet farm or home
acquisitions when the veteran is compelled to change jobs and residence, where a
sale of a farm or home is necessary for health reasons, and where « person qual-
ifies as a veteran under two or more categories or a man and his wife each quali-
fies as a veteran.
   Authorizes, subject to prescribed limitations, subsequent Cal-Vet farm or home
acquisitions when the veteran, after November 12, 1968, and prior to the effective
date of this act, sold his farm or home because of being compelled to change his
job and residence or because of health reasons.
   Makes related changes.
Ch. 1592 (AB 845) D U F F Y Adds Art. 10 (commencing with Sec. 710), Ch.
     1, Div. 2, and Sec. 2736.5, B . & P . C , re healing arts.
   Permits person who has served on active duty in the medical corps of any U.S.
armed forces, has completed the course of instruction required to qualify him for
rating as a medical service technician—independent duty, or equivalent rating in
his particular branch of the armed forces, and whose armed service has been under
honorable conditions, to submit record of his training to California Board of Nurs-
ing Education and Nurse Registration, and to be granted license as a registered
nurse upon meeting specified qualifications and passing the standard examination
for such license.
   Requires board to establish by regulation criteria for evaluation of such persons,
to maintain specified records concerning them, and to report findings and recom-
mendations relating to such persons to Legislature at prescribed times.
Ch. 1593 (AB 2106) Z E N O V I C H Adds Sec. 732, F . & G.C, Sec. 6301.2,
     P . R . C , re government reorganization.
   Provides that Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969 shall have no effect upon
Marine Research Committee, and further provides that Reorganization Plan No. 2
of 1969 shall have no effect upon specified functions, authorities, and responsibili-
ties of the State Lands Commission. Requires Legislative Counsel to make ap-
propriate note of this in preparing bill making statutory changes called for by the
reorganization plan.
   In effect immediately.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        239

Oh. 1594 ( A B 225) L A N T E R M A N Amends, adds, and repeals various provi-
     sions, H. & S.C. and W. & I.C., re mental retardation.
  Enacts the California Mental Retardation Services Act of 1969, providing new
procedures for the care and treatment of mentally retarded persons who a r e not
dangerous, and providing for the administration and financing thereof, to take the
place of the existing commitment system for such persons.
Ch. 1595 (AB 73T) M U L F O R D Amends See. 9942, B . & P.O., re employment
     agencies.
  Requires Bureau of Employment Agencies, where applicant is a member of an
employment agency system, to accept a proposed name for an employment agency
utilizing the name of the system together with identifying designation, rather than
authorizing such an applicant, if it includes in its application the name of the
system, in addition to name approved by bureau, to state in sign, advertising or
promotional material that it is member of system.
Ch. 1596 (AB 938) HOM Amends and * adds various sees., E d . C , repeals Sec.
     6, Ch. 106, Stats. 1966 ( F i r s t Ex, Sess.), re compensatory education.
   Requires apportionments for special teacher employment programs to be based
upon average statewide teacher salary, rather t h a n $7,000, per full-time equivalent
classroom teacher.
   Extends from 1969 to 1972 the date when Director of Compensatory Education
is required to report evaluation of such projects to Legislature. Extends operation
of provisions authorizing such intensive instruction programs from 1969 to 1972.
   Prescribes standards for approval of projects under such programs, and requires,
continual review of approved projects.
   Provides that annual reports on such demonstration programs be made to Leg-
islature, and that reports contain cost analysis.
   Repeals provision limiting operation of act establishing special teacher employ-,
ment programs and intensive instruction in reading and mathematics programs to-
91st day after final adjournment of 1969 Regular Session. .
   Appropriates $9,500,000 for purposes of the act.
   In effect immediately.
Ch. 1597 ( A B 993) P O W E R S Amends various sees., Gov.C., Ch. 1242, Stats,
    of 1963, re capitol area plan.
  Makes technical changes in law reflecting transfer to Department of General
Services from Department of Finance of control over property within Capitol Area
Plan, and abolition of School Land Fund.
  Appropriates revenue from such property, except t h a t received for parking, to the
Department of General Services for the maintenance, improvement, and care of
property under its jurisdiction.
Ch. 1598 (AB 1254) B R I T S C H G I Amends Sees. 35711, 35712, Veh.C, re
     weight limit of vehicles.                  ,
   Authorizes county of ninth class to prohibit, by ordinance, the use of highway
located in unincorporated residential or subdivision area by any commercial vehicle
exceeding a gross weight of 5,000 pounds.
   Prohibits any ordinance adopted by prescribed counties to prohibit use of highway
by commercial vehicles exceeding designated gross weight, from prohibiting any
commercial vehicle from using any county highway by direct route to or from
state highway for purpose of delivering or loading for transportation goods, wares,
or merchandise.
   Exempts from authorization given counties to prohibit use of highways in specie
fied areas by commercial vehicles exceeding designated weight limits, vehicles of
public utilities operated in connection with specified purposes.
   Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 35712, Veh.C., proposed by S B 1075,
to be operative only upon enactment of SB 1075.
Ch. 1599 ( S B 363) C O L L I E R Amends, adds, repeals various provisions, Gov.C,
     re executive salaries.
  Raises various salaries for state executives and members of various boards and
commissions.
  Establishes 7-member committee on executive salaries to study and recommead
future salary changes.
 * Correction.
240                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Oh. 1600 ( A B 662) BAGLEY * Amends Sees. 12500, 68204 and repeals Sec.
     12505, Gov.C, re Attorney General.
  Deletes provision for payment of annual salary to the Attorney General the same
as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, provides for a salary of $42,500 per
year, and makes provision operative J a n u a r y 1, 1971.
Oh. 1601 ( S B 408) MCCARTHY Amends Sec. 11560, Gov.C, Sec. 19428, B .
    & P.C., re state officers' salaries.
  Provides t h a t annual salary of the secretary of the California Horse Racing
Board shall be set by the Board.
Ch. 1602 ( S B 751) H A R M E R Amends Sec. 72602 and adds Sec. 72602.14,
    Gov.C, re municipal courts.
  Provides for 2 judges in the Newhall Municipal Court District.
  To be operative January 1, 1970.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 72602, Gov.C, made by AB 1194.
Ch. 1603 ( S B 975) M A R L E R Amends Sees. 21683 and 21685, P . U . C , re
     Airport Assistance Revolving Fund.
   Provides that no payment from the Airport Assistance Revolving Fund shall be
made to the University of California unless the university has established a special
aviation fund and deposits therein an amount equal to the payment for each public
airport by the Department of Aeronautics, but the amount of this deposit shall
not include state or federal appropriated funds.
   Deletes provisions conditioning such payment upon the university's receipt from
a city located within 10 miles of the airport or the county within which the air-
port is situated of a sum at least equal to the amount to be received from the
fund. Provides t h a t the amounts received from the department and the amount
of matching funds may not be used for airport operation or maintenance.
Ch. 1604 ( S B 992) C A R R E L L Adds and repeals Art. 4 (commencing with Sec.
     21680), Ch. 4, P t . 1, Div. 9, P . U . C , re Airport Assistance Revolving Fund.
  Revises provisions relating to the administration of the Airport Assistance Re-
volving Fund. Requires State Aeronautics Board to allocate local assistance grants
on recommendation of the Department of Aeronautics. Includes within meaning of
"airport and aviation purposes" the servicing of revenue and general obligation
bonds. Prohibits receipt of funds by any airport which substantially restricts gen-
eral aviation activity. Prohibits use of funds for and defines operation and mainte-
nance. Retains provisions respecting the $2500 mandatory annual grant to each
qualifying airport, the requirement of local matching funds and special deposit
requirements, the maximum three-year period for accruing funds, and audits by
the State Controller.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 21680, P . U . C , proposed by AB 461, to
be operative only upon enactment of A B 461.
Ch. 1605 ( S B 192) R I C H A R D S O N Amends Sec. 23754, adds Sec. 23754.2,
     E d . C , re student tuition fees.
   Specifies that commencing with 1970-71 academic year, tuition fees charged for-
eign nonresident students at California State Colleges will be fixed by Trustees of
California State Colleges at not less than $360 per year.
   Authorizes trustees, until Spring term of 1973 or until student receives bacca-
laureate degree, to waive tuition fee for nonresident foreign student who attended
state college during Fall term of 1969. if increased tuition fees will cause severe
financial hardship on student.
   Specifies that commencing with 1970-71 academic year, the trustees may waive
or reduce the tuition fee for not more than 7J percent of the foreign nonresident
undergraduate students.
Ch. 1606 (AB 1643) BAGLEY Amends various sees.. R. & T . C , re taxation.
  Includes certain mergers by a controlled corporation wthin the definition of
"reorganization" for purposes of personal income tax and corporation tax.
  Makes various technical and conforming changes.
* Correction.
                    I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                             241

Oh. 1607 ( S B 23) H A R M E R Adds and amends various sees., R. & T.C., re
    income tax : self-employed individuals.
  Allows deduction by self-employed person for contributions to qualified retirement
plan similar to deduction allowed under federal "Self-Employed Individuals Tax
Retirement Act of 1962," as amended.
  Applicable to tax years beginning after December 31, 1970.
Oh. 1608 ( S B 252) G R U N S K Y Amends, adds, and repeals various sees., Civ.O.,
     O.C.P., Gov.C, H . & S.C., and W. & I.O., re family law.
   Enacts "The Family Law Act," and revises laws relating to marriage, divorce,
annulment, and separate maintenance. Eliminates fault as basis for divorce and
separation, and with respect to property disposition. Creates procedures for the
parties and court to consider and determine whether the marriage should be con-
tinued.
   Provides that act is applicable to actions or proceedings filed prior to J a n u a r y 1,
1970, with respect to issues on which an interlocutory judgment has not been
entered or denied in the action, or, if the action is not one in which an inter-
locutory judgment may be entered, with respect to issues on which a judgment
has not been entered, to all proceedings for modification of a judgment or order,
and to all actions and proceedings filed on or after J a n u a r y 1, 1970. Provides
that in any action or proceeding in which an interlocutory judgment or any other
judgment has been entered or a new trial has been granted prior to J a n u a r y 1, 1970,
the law in effect at the time of entry of such judgment or order granting a new
trial shall govern any subsequent trial or appeal. Provides t h a t pending actions»
for dissolution of marriage or legal separation based on grounds other than in-
curable insanity shall be deemed to be on ground of irreconcilable differences.
   Operative January 1, 1970.
Ch. 1609 (AB 530) H A Y E S Amends, adds, and repeals various sees., Civ.O.,
     C.C.P., S.B. 252, re domestic relations.
  Includes in "The Family Law Act," enacted by S B 252, changes in laws relating
to marriage, divorce, annulment, and separate maintenance made by SB 288, S B
574, and SB 1309, to be operative only upon enactment of such bills.
  Makes technical changes in "The Family Law Act."
  T o become operative only if SB 252 is enacted.
Ch. 1610 ( S B 503) G R U N S K Y Amends, « a m e n d s and renumbers, adds, re-
      peals various sees., C.C.P., Corp.C, Gov.C, re court process and procedure.
   Revises law relating to jurisdiction of courts and service of process, in-
cluding new and alternative methods of such service and new provisions for
relief from default. Deletes requirement t h a t action be dismissed unless summons
issued within one year.
   Operative July 1, 1970.
Oh. 1611 (SB 900) G R U N S K Y Amends and adds various sees., Civ.C, C.C.P.,
    Corp.C, P r o b . C , R. & T . C , and S. & H.C., re civil procedure.
  Revises procedure relative to service of process under various provisions of law.
  To become operative only if Senate Bill 503 is enacted.
  Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 3241, Civ.C, as added by SB 316, to be
operative upon enactment of SB 316. Incorporates additional changes to Sec. 585,
O.C.P., proposed by S B 574 and AB 1706, to be operative only if either or both
such bills are enacted and at the same time as SB 503 becomes operative. In-
corporates additional changes to Sec. 586, C.C.P., proposed by SB 574, to be
operative only upon enactment of SB 574 and at the same time as S B 503
becomes operative.
Oh. 1612 (AB 913) M U R P H Y Amends Sec. 6812.5, E d . C , re physically handi-
     capped minors.
   Permits blind minors from 18 months to 3 years to enroll in experimental pro-
grams similar to those in which deaf and severly hard-of-hearing minors 18 months
to 3 years now enroll.
  In effect immediately.
•Correction.
242                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ch. 1613 ( A B 1149) B A R N E S Amends Sec. 7.6, Gov.C, re government officers.
  Deletes prohibition against more than one constitutional officer being represented
by a deputy at meetings or sessions of boards, commissions, committees or other
governing bodies, except for the State Lands Commission.
Ch. 1614 (AB 565) T H O M A S Amends Sec. 8046, F . & G.C., re Marine Re-
     search Committee.
   Extends privilege tax on handling of designated fish from December 3 1 , 1969,
to December 31, 1970.
   Declares that Marine Research Committee shall not be affected by Reorganization
Plan No. 1 and requires Legislative Counsel to exclude any provision of said plan
affecting the committee in preparing bill required by Sec. 12081, Gov-C.
Ch. 1615 (AB 1921) S I E R O T Y Amends Sec. 85, adds Sec. 216, and repeals
      Sec. 196b, Civ.C, re artificial insemination: legitimacy—support.
   Deletes provision making a husband who consents in writing to the artificial in-
semination of his wife, liable for the support of the child in the same manner as
if he were the natural father. Provides that a child born to a woman as a result of
artificial insemination consented to in writing by the husband, is legitimate if birth
occurs during marriage or within 300 days after dissolution of marriage, and that
such a child is included within provision making legitimate the issue of a mar-
riage which is void or annulled or dissolved by divorce.
Ch. 1616 ( A B 473) Q y i M B Y Adds Sec. 4709, L a b . C , re college scholarships.
  Provides a scholarship of $6,000 maximum over a period not to exceed six years,
with a maximum of $1,500 per year, to dependents of peace officers who died in t h e
performance of, or from injuries incurred in the performance of their duties if they
have demonstrated their financial need for such scholarships.
  Provides that this section shall not be interpreted to allow admittance of
dependents into a«state college or any university in California unless such de-
pendents are otherwise qualified to gain admission to such college or university.
  Defines "dependent" as so used.
  Specifies that such scholarships be paid out of funds appropriated to the S t a t e
Scholarship and Loan Commission and requires the commission to adopt t h e
necessary regulations therefor.
  Appropriates $11,000 for purposes of act.
Ch. 1617 ( A B 741) RYAN Adds Art. 2.6 (commencing with Sec. 13245h
     Ch. 2, Div. 10, E d . C , re Certified Master Teacher Law.
   Requires Superintendent of Public Instruction to establish three-year pilot
master teacher selection program at two selected school districts; establishes
minimum requirements for master teacher selection panels and the selection
criteria.
   Provides for issuance of certificates to persons appointed certified master teach-
ers and provides that they be paid by employing school districts an extra stipend,
above regular salary, of $4,000, which is to be reimbursed by state, from money
appropriated therefor.
   Prescribes procedures and provides for various related matters.
  Appropriates $100,000 to Superintendent of Public Instruction for purposes of
act.
   Provides that federal funds received for purposes of act a n d application fees
received pursuant to act, are in augmentation of appropriation.
Ch. 1618 (AB 2204) VASCONCELLOS Amends Sec. 210, H . & S.C., re drug
     abuse research.
   Authorizes Regents of University of California to evaluate programs in research,
treatment, and education with respect to drug abuse as part of its information
exchange program relative to drug abuse.
   Requires specific recommendation of such evaluation in its report to Legislature.
   Appropriates $85,000 to Regents of University of California from General Fund,
for expenditure in implementing activities of regents in this area.
                  I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                       243

Ch. 1619 ( S B 244) COOMBS Adds Sec. 6560.2, B . & P.O., re barbering.
   Permits a licensed cosmetology establishment which immediately prior to Novem-
ber 8, 1967, represented itself to the public as being primarily engaged in serving
patrons with both cosmetological services and barbering services including repre-
sentations that it performed haircutting on males or females, or both males and
females, to make such representations if it obtains a certificate to conduct a
barbershop. Requires the State Board of Barber Examiners to issue a certificate
to such an establishment upon proof of specified facts.
   Permits a licensed cosmetologist who engaged in performing acts of barbering
in such an establishment for at least one year immediately prior to November 8,
1967, to obtain a barber certificate.
  Prohibits receipt of applications under these provisions after the expiration of
90 days from effective date of this act.
                           RESOLUTION CHAPTERS
Ees. Ch. 1 (ACR 6) C R O W N Alameda City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Alameda City Charter.
Res. Ch. 2 (ACR 7) B U R K E Seal Beach City Charter.
   Approves amendments to Charter of City of Seal Beach.
Res. Ch. 3 (ACR 3) H A Y E S Long Beach City Charter.
  Approves amendments to Long Beach City Charter.
Res. Ch. 4 (ACR 4) P R I O L O Soroptimist Civic Leadership Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week of J a n u a r y 18-25, 1969, as Soropti-
mist Civic Leadership Week.
Res. Ch. 5 (SCR 1) ALQTJIST Santa Clara City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Santa Clara.
Res. Ch. 6 (ACR 8) C O L L I E R Arcadia City Charter.
   Approves new Charter for City of Arcadia.
Res. Ch. 7 ( S C R 3) S C H M I T Z Joseph Allan Beek.
  Pays tribute to memory of Joseph Allan Beek, Secretary of the Senate.
Res. Ch. 8 ( S C R 4) * T E A L E Senator George Miller, J r .
  Mourns the untimely passing of Senator George Miller, Jr.,              and   expresses
condolences to his widow and children.
Res. Ch. 9 ( S C R 10) G R U N S K Y Santa Cruz City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Santa Cruz.
Res. Ch. 10 ( S C R 7) MOSCONE San Francisco Charter.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City and County of San Francisco.
Res. Ch. 11 (ACR 1) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Santa Barbara City Charter.
  Approves amendments to the Charter of the City of Santa Barbara.
Res. Ch. 12 (ACR 12) T H O M A S Proclamation of Astronauts' Day.
  Requests Governor select and proclaim a date as Astronauts' Day and invite
Apollo 8 crew members to address Legislature in joint convention and receive
award from Governor. Requests Governor to furnish and present award to
each of such astronauts.
Res. Ch. 13 ( S C R 2) B U R N S Honorable Robert H . Finch.
  Congratulates Honorable Robert H. Finch upon his selection as Secretary of
Health, Education, and Welfare.
Res. Ch. 14 ( S C R 6) S C H R A D E San Diego County Charter.
  Approves amendments to the San Diego County Charter.
Res. Ch. 15 ( S C R 13) S C H M I T Z Norma Lorbeer Murdy.
   Pays tribute to the memory of the late Norma Lorbeer Murdy and extends con-
dolences to her family.
Res. Ch. 16 (ACR 9) T O W N S E N D Electrical Week.
  Commends electrical industry for contributions to people of the state and re-
quests Governor to proclaim week of February 9-15, 1969, as Electrical Week.
Res. Ch. 17 (ACR 13) Z ' B E R G Junior Achievement Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim J a n u a r y 26 through February 1, 1969, as J u n i o r
Achievement Week.
Res. Ch. 18 (ACR 10) C H A P P I E Japanese immigration.
  Commemorates centennial of Japanese immigration to United States.
Res. Ch. 19 (SCR 9) M A R K S Electrical Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of February 9-15, 1969, as Electrical Week
and urge all citizens to participate in this significant event.
* Correction.
                                          ( 245,)
246                I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 20 (SCR 11) RODDA Sacramento County Charter.
  Approves amendments to Sacramento County Charter.
Res. Res. 21 (SCR 5) SHERMAN Oakland Charter.
  Approves new Charter of the City of Oakland.
Res. Ch. 22 (AJR 4) CHAPPIE Angelo Noce Week.
  Urges Post Office Department to honor Angelo Noce, "Founder and Father of
Columbus Day" with commemorative stamp and urges President to proclaim Angelo
Noce Week.
Res. Ch. 23 (ACR 14) MILIAS Industrial Safety Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of February 2 through 8 as Industrial Safety
Week and urges all citizens of California to recognize and follow good safety
practices.
Res. Ch. 24 (SCR 12) COLLIER Dr. Fred O. Butler.
  Commends Dr. Fred O. Butler for his past service as Superintendent of Sonoma
State Hospital.
Res. Ch. 25 (SCR 20) CUSANOVICH Children's Dental Health Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the week of February 2nd through 8th as
"Children's Dental Health Week."
Res. Ch. 26 (ACR 16) RYAN School district employment.
  Creates Joint Committee on Teacher Licensing and Public School Employment,
consisting of three Members of Senate and three Members of Assembly, to ascer-
tain, study and analyze all facts relating to specified areas of public school employ-
ment.
  Makes $25,000 plus any unencumbered and unexpended amounts allocated to
Joint Committee on Teacher Oredentialing Practices and Joint Committee on Public
School Employment available from Contingent Funds of Assembly and Senate for
expenses of committee.
Res. Ch. 27 (ACR 24) STACEY Bakersfield City Charter.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Bakersfield.
Res. Ch. 28 (ACR 2T) BELOTTI Melvin J. Bareilles.
  Expresses condolences on death of Melvin J. Bereilles.
Res. Ch. 29 (SCR 24) BRADLEY Mountain View City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Mountain View.
Res. Ch. 30 (SCR 26) SONG Monterey Park Progress.
  Congratulates Monterey Park Progress newspaper on its 50th year of publication.
Res. Ch. 31 (ACR 19) UNRTJH Inglewood City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Inglewood.
Res. Ch. 32 (ACR 33) FONG Beauty Salon Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of February 9th to 15th Beauty Salon Week.
Res. Ch. 33 (ACR 5) MULFORD Legislative Counsel of California.
  Designates George H. Murphy as the Legislative Counsel of California.
Res. Ch. 34 (ACR 20) LEROY F. GREENE National Engineers' Week.
  Requests Governor to designate week of February 16-22, 1969, as "National
Engineers' Week."
Res. Ch. 35 (ACR 42) TOWNSEND Edison Science Youth Day.
   Requests Governor proclaim February 11, 1969, as Edison Science Youth Day.
Res. Ch. 36 (SCR 19) COLLIER Floyd P. Bailey.
   Honors the memory of Mr. Bailey by describing his important role in the growth
of Santa Rosa Junior College.
Res. Ch. 37 (SCR 21) SHERMAN Albany City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Albany.
                  I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         247

Res. Ch. 38 (SCE 23) ALQTJIST Elks National Youth Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the week beginning with May 1, 1969, "Elks
National Youth Week" in California and commends Elks on sponsoring such week.
Res. Ch. 39, (SCR 29) DEUKMEJIAN California Congressional Cup Week.
   Requests the Governor to proclaim the week beginning March 9, 1969, as "Cali-
fornia Congressional Cup Week."
Res. Ch. 40 (SCR 45) HARMER Week of Family Prayer.
  Requests that Governor proclaim week of February 16-22, 1969, as "Week of
Family Prayer."
Res. Ch. 41 (ACR 40) FORAN American Music Month.
  Requests Governor to declare February to be American Music Month.
Res. Ch. 42 (SCR 51) COLOGNE Easter Seal Month.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim March 1 to April 6 as Easter Seal Month
and honors the visit of Manuel Gomez, Jr., of Hemet, California, "1969 California
Easter Seal Child.'*
Res. Ch. 43 (ACR 44) CONRAD DeMolay Week.
   Commends Order of DeMolay for its work with youth and requests Governor to
proclaim week of March 16-22, 1969, as DeMolay Week.
Res. Ch. 44 (ACR 60) QUIMBY San Bernardino City Charter.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of San Bernardino.
Res.Ch. 45 (ACR 61) MURPHY Zero Defects Week.
 Requests Governor to proclaim -week of March 6th through 13th as "Zero
Defects Week."
Res. Ch. 46 (SCR 35) WHETMORE Schoolbus Safety Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim April 20 through April 26, 1969, as "Schoolbus
Safety Week."
Res. Ch. 47 (SCR 36) McCARTHY Chamber of Commerce Week.
  Urges Governor to proclaim March 23 to 29, 1969, Chamber of Commerce Week.
Res. Ch. 48 (ACR 32) DUNLAP Value engineering.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim that the week of March 16 to 22, 1969, be
designated Value Engineering Week.
Res. Ch. 49 (ACR 37) FONG Administrative Management Week.
 Urges Governor to proclaim May 11 to May 17, 1969, "Administrative Manage-
ment Week."
Res. Ch. 50 (AJR 8) FORAN Smog control.
   Requests the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to make a finding, as
required by the Federal Air Quality Act of 1967, that the vehicle emission stand-
ards contained in the California Pure Air Act of 1968 are technically feasible and
capable of implementation with reasonable economic cost, thereby authorizing Cali-
fornia to implement these standards.
Res. Ch. 51 (SCR 42) RODDA International Toastmistress Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week of May 18 to 24, 1969, as International
Toastmistress Week.
Res. Ch. 52. (SCR 46) MOSCONE American Music Month.
 Requests Governor to proclaim February as American Music Month.
Res. Ch. 53 (SCR 44) BURNS Senate and Assembly.
  Provides for legislative recess from Friday, March 28th until April 7th.
  Provides that no bill may be introduced after April 8th unless a specified pro-
cedure is followed.
  Requires requests for drafting of bills to be -introduced on or before April 8th
to be made to the Legislative Counsel oh or before March 28th. Provides that the.
Legislative Counsel shall not deliver drafts requested after that date until April
9th or after.
248                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 54 (SCR 50) RODDA Youth Temperance Education Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the week of April 20, 1969, Youth Temper-
ance Education Week.
Res. Ch. 55 (SCR 62) BRADLEY Circle K Week.
  Requests Governor Reagan to proclaim week of March 2-8, 1969, as Circle K
Week.
Res. Ch. 56 (ACR 21) MONAGAN Joint committee: higher education.
   Creates Joint Committee on Higher Education to study and make recommenda-
tions on problems of higher education in California.
   Makes $100,000 available from Contingent Funds of Assembly and Senate for
expenses of committee.
Res. Ch. 57 (ACR 43) GRAND ALL            La Fiesta de las Rosas.
  Commends La Fiesta de las Rosas.
Res. Ch. 58 (ACR 53) MONAGAN Manuel Furtado.
  Commends and congratulates Manuel Furtado for 50 years as dairyman.
 Res. Ch. 59 (SCR 37) WALSH Colonel Frank Borman.
   Commends Col. Frank Borman, NASA Astronaut.
Res. Ch. 60 (SCR 38) WALSH Lieutenant Colonel William A. Anders.
  Commends Lieutenant Colonel William A. Anders for his outstanding record of
achievement and expresses appreciation for his significant contribution to the devel-
opment of our nation's manned space flight program.
Res.Ch. 61 (SCR 39) WALSH Captain James A. Lovell, Jr.
 Commends Captain Lovell for his achievements in orbiting the moon.
Res. Ch. 62 (SCR 40) WALSH North American Rockwell Corporation.
   Commends North American Rockwell Corporation and its president W. B. Bergen
for numerous and outstanding accomplishments in the Apollo 8 space program.
Res. Ch. 63 (AJR 10) CHAPPIE Japanese centennial.
  Urges Post Office Department to honor centennial of Japanese immigration with
commemorative stamp and urges President to proclaim the year 1969 as the centen-
nial year for the people of Japanese descent in the United States.
 Res. Ch. 64 (ACR 11) CHAPPIE Dr. R. Coke Wood.
    Commends Dr. R. Coke Wood for his significant contributions to the preservation
 and restoration of historical data and objects of the State of California and, par-
ticularly, the Mother Lode.
   Requests Governor to designate Dr. R. Coke Wood as "Mr. California."
Res. Ch. 65 (SCR 56) CARRELL Frank Burrill and R. L. "Cuba" Morris.
  Honors Frank Burrill and R. L. "Cuba" Morris for their vital part in the
passage of the law creating driver education as a part of high school curriculum.
Res. Ch. 66 (SCR 65) DILLS James A. Evans.
   Extends the sympathy of the Legislature to the family and friends of James A.
Evans on his recent untimely passing and commends him on his many contri-
butions.
Res. Ch. 67 (SCR 66) RODDA Toastmasters Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of March 9 through 15 Toastmasters Week.
Res. Ch. 68 (ACR 64) DUNLAP Napa City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Napa City Charter.
Res. Ch. 69 (SCR 49) COOMBS Good Nutrition Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim April 13th through 19th as "Good Nutrition '
Week."
Res. Ch. 70 (ACR 48) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Welcome Wagon Week.
  Urges Governor to proclaim w«ek of April 13-19 as Welcome Wagon Week.
                   1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          249

Bes.Ch. 71 (ACR 57) CONRAD Y. F r a n k Freeman.
  Memorializes Y. F r a n k Freeman, enumerating the vast and significant contri-
butions he made to the motion picture industry during his distinguished career.
Res. Ch. 72 (ACR 58) A R K L I N Freedom Season.
  Requests Governor to proclaim period from J u n e 14th to J u l y 4th as Freedom
Season.
Res. Ch. 73 ( S C R 61) S H O R T Elks Lodge No. 6.
   Commends the Benevolent and Protective Order of the Elks, Lodge No. 6, a n d
its Exalted Ruler, Richard Desmond.
Res. Ch. 74 ( S C R 63) C A R R E L L Freedom's Season.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim J u n e 14, 1969, through July 4, 1969, as
"Freedom's Season."
Res. Ch. 75 ( A J R 12) L E W I S Flood control assistance.
  Memorializes the President and the Congress of the United States to review the
proposed flood control and water reclamation budget for California and to restore
those programs which have been deleted in order to prevent the loss of life and
destruction of property in California.
Res. Ch. 76 (ACR 54) D E N T El Camino Viejo.
  Commemorates year 1969 as 200th anniversary of E l Camino Viejo.
Res. Ch. 77 (ACR 62) B A R N E S Cabrillo Festival.
  Acknowledges the title of Commissioner General of the Cabrillo Festival to t h e
Government of Portugal conferred upon Almirante Sarmento Rodrigues by the
Cabrillo Festival.
Res. Ch. 78 ( S C R 69) S C H M I T Z Spanish-American Veterans Month.
  Urges the Governor of the State of California to proclaim the month of April
1969 as Spanish-American Veterans Month and urges all Californians to prepare
suitable ceremonies to honor the living and the dead of the Spanish-American W a r .
Res. Ch. 79 (ACR 23) B A R N E S Retirement advisory committee.
   Terminates the existence of the advisory committee to the Joint Legislative
Retirement Committee upon the adoption of this resolution and its filing in the
office of the Secretary of State.
Res. Ch. 80 (ACR 66) P A T T E E James L. Holmes.
 Expresses sorrow at the death of former Assemblyman James L. Holmes.
Res. Ch. 81 (ACR 95) C R A N D A L L California science fairs.
  Commends California science fairs for their contributions in promoting science
and scientific education.
Res. Ch. 82 ( S J R 4) WAY Public land grazing fees.
  Memorializes the President, the Secretary of Agriculture, and Secretary of the
Interior, to place a moratorium on the grazing fee schedule on public land and not
to take further action until sufficient time is had for a full congressional hearing on
the subject.
Res. Ch. 83 (ACR 65) B E E Recording for the Blind.
 Commends three California centers of Recording for the Blind, Inc.
Res. Ch. 84. (ACR 69) MONAGAN Invest-in-America Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week beginning April 27, 1969, as "Invest-in-
America Week," and all citizens be encouraged to join in reaffirming their faith i n
our American way of life.
Res. Ch. 85. (ACR 71) P O W E R S National Painting and Decorating Week.
  Urges Governor Reagan to proclaim the week of J u n e 14 through J u n e 21, 1969,
as National Painting and Decorating Week.
Res. Ch. 86 (ACR 73) M A C D O N A L D William Patrick Clark, J r .
  Commends^ Honorable William Patrick Clark, Jr., for service in Governor's cabinet
and congratulates him upon appointment to superior court in San Luis Obispo
Countv.
250                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Bes. Ch. 87 (ACR 76) MURPHY Pat Nolet.
  Expresses sorrow at the death of Pat Nolet and extends condolences to his family
and friends.
Res. Ch. 88 (ACR 101) KETCHUM Bakersfield's centennial.
   Congratulates the citizens of Bakersfield on their centennial celebration.
Res. Ch. 89 (SCR 27) BURNS Legislative building space needs.
   Continues Joint Committee on Legislative Building Space Needs in existence until
first day of 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 90 (SCR 59) BURNS California's economic climate.
  Reaffirms Legislature's concern over maintaining a favorable climate for industry
and business in order to provide prosperity and full employment for the state's
growing population.
Res. Ch. 91 (AJR 5) TOWNSEND California-Mexican border: minors.
  Memorializes Congress to conduct hearings in Southern California to consider the
dosing of the California-Mexican border to minors unless they are accompanied
by a parent or other responsible adult.
Res. Ch. 92 (AJR 7) BRIGGS Indemnity for cattle.
  Requests increase in federal indemnity for slaughtered tuberculosis or brucellosis
reacting cattle to $100 for grade animals and $125 for purebred animals.
Res. Ch. 93 (ACR 74) VEYSEY Mexican-American Education Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of October 12-18, 1969, as Mexican-Ameri-
can Education Week.
Res. Ch. 94 (ACR 80) MILIAS American Legion Anniversary Month.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the month of March 1969 as American Legion
50th Anniversary Month.
Res. Ch. 95 (ACR 91) POWERS Secretaries' Week.
  Proclaims week of April 20 through 26 Secretaries' Week, and April 23 to be
Secretaries' Day.              \
Kes. Ch. 96 (ACR 100) Z'BERG Camp Fire Girls' Birthday Week.
  Urges Governor Reagan to proclaim the week of March 23 through March 29,
1969, as Camp Fire Girls' Birthday Week.
Res. Ch. 97 (ACR 113) ZENOVICH Environmental Health Week.
  Proclaims week of April 13 to 19, 1969, as "Environmental Health Week."
Res. Ch. 98 (AJR 11) Z'BERG Oil and gas operations.
  Memorializes President and Congress to obtain state approval of oil and gas ex-
ploration or development operations off the California coast prior to the permitting
of such operations on federal lands.
Res. Ch. 99 (AJR 20) MURPHY Businesses: flood damage assistance.
  Memorializes the President and the Congress of the United States to provide
assistance to businesses damaged and destroyed by recent storms and floods.
Res. Ch. 100 (ACR 78) BEE Children With Learning Disabilities Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim May 11 to May 17 as Children With Learning
Disabilities Week.
Res. Ch. 101 (ACR 79) Mulford "Antilitter Month."
  Requests Governor to proclaim month of May as California "Antilitter Month"
and urges all Californians to support this proclamation by their individual efforts
for the beautification of the State of California.
Res. Ch. 102 (ACR 81) LEROY F. GREENE Square Dance Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the week of September 7, 1969, as "Square
Dance Week."
Res. Ch. 103 (ACR 107) DUFFY "Cancer Control Month."
  Requests Governor to proclaim April 1969 as "Cancer Control Month."
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          251

Bes.Ch. 104 ( S C R 74) D E U K M E J I A N Private Education Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim November 17-21, 1969, as Private Education
Week.
Res. Ch. 105 (SCR 97) B R A D L E Y Palo Alto Day.
   Requests Governor to proclaim April 16, 1969, as "Palo Alto D a y " in recognition
of 75th anniversary of incorporation of City of Palo Alto.
Res. Ch. 106 ( S C R 77) D O L W I G International W a n t Ad Week.
  Requests Governor to designate week of April 13-20, 1969, as International W a n t
Ad Week.
Res. Ch. 107 (ACR 77) MONAGAN Public Schools Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim April 21 through 25, 1969, as Public Schools
Week.
Res. Ch. 108 (ACR 138) M O O R H E A D City of Glendale.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Glendale.
Res. Ch. 109 (ACR 88) C H A P P I E Soil Stewardship Week.
  Requests the Governor to declare the week of May 11 to 18, 1969, as Soil
Stewardship Week.
Res. Ch. 110 (ACR 89) P O W E R S National Insurance Women's Week.
  Commends National Association of Insurance Women, and requests the Governor
to proclaim the week of May 18, 1969, through May 24, 1969, as National Insurance
Women's Week.
Res. Ch. I l l (ACR 90) D A V I S F u t u r e Business Leaders of America.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the week of April 21 to 27, 1969, as " F u t u r e
Business Leaders of America Week." <
Res. Ch. 112 (ACR 94) MOBLEY California F a r m Bureau Federation.
  Commends the California F a r m Bureau Federation on its golden anniversary for
distinguished service rendered to the farmers, the state, and the nation.
Res. Ch. 113 (ACR 99) RAY E. J O H N S O N Beta Sigma P h i Week.
  Commends Beta Sigma Phi, an international sorority, for its many valuable
contributions to the people of this state, and requests Governor to proclaim week of
April 27-May 4, 1969, as Beta Sigma P h i Week.
Res.Ch. 114 (ACR 112) B E V E R L Y Employee Suggestion Day.
  Requests Governor to proclaim April 21, 1969, as "Employee Suggestion Day in
California."
Res.Ch. 115 (ACR 55) M I L I A S Beta Sigma Phi Week.
  Commends Beta Sigma P h i and requests the Governor to proclaim week of April
27, 1969, through May 3, 1969, as Beta Sigma Phi Week.
Res. Ch. 116 ( S C R 68) G R U N S K Y Law Day.
  Requests Governor to proclaim May 1, 1969, as Law Day, U.S.A.                v

Res. Ch. 117 (ACR 84) P A T T E E Retirement of William A. Kerlin.
  Commends William A. Kerlin, who is retiring from his position as Chief of the
California Department of Agriculture's Bureau of Weights and Measures, for his
many years of dedicated public service.
Res.Ch. 118 (ACR 146) S C H A B A R U M Pomona City Charter.
  Approves amendment to Pomona City Charter.
Res. Ch. I i 9 (ACR 63) B U R T O N Joint Committee: Legislative Organization.
  Provides that Joint Committee on Legislative Organization study feasibility of
carrying bills over from regular session in odd-numbered years to following regular
session in even-numbered years.
Res. Ch. 120 ( S J R 8 ) T E A L E School district appropriations.
  Memorializes the President of the United States, the Director of the Bureau of
the Budget and the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and other involved
252                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

federal officials to review the administrative decision that only 35 percent of con-
gressional appropriation to eligible school districts under P.L. 81-874 will be re-
leased during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1969, and to provide the full appro-
priation authorized by Congress to school districts for this fiscal year.
Res. Ch. 121 (ACR 51) BAGLEY John G. Veneman.
  Commends John G. Veneman for distinguished and meritorious service to the
people of California.
Res. Ch. 122 (ACR 134) STULL Welded Products Month.
  Asks the Governor to proclaim April Welded Products Month.
Res. Ch. 123 (SCR 75) BRADLEY "Livermore Centennial Celebration Day."
  Requests Governor to proclaim October 11, 1969, as "Livermore Centennial Cele-
bration Day."
Res. Ch. 124 (SCR 76) SHORT Recognition: National Goodwill Week.
  Requests that week of May 4 through May 10, 1969, be designated as National
Goodwill Week in recognition of outstanding humanitarian achievements made by
Goodwill Industries.
Res. Ch. 125 (SCR 90) CARRELL Correct Posture Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the week of May 5th through May 11th as
"Correct Posture Week."
Res. Ch. 126 (SCR 96) MARKS California Coin Day.
   Requests Governor to proclaim April 27, 1969, California Coin Day and urge
all citizens to participate in this event.
Res. Ch. 127 (SCR 104) MARKS General Douglas Mac Arthur Day.
  Requests Governor to proclaim April 26, 1969, as "General Douglas MacArthur
Day."
Res. Ch. 128 (ACR 103) KNOX Bay area regional organization.
   Continues existence of Joint Committee on Bay Area Regional Organization
with authority to act during 1969 legislative session, including any recess, until
final adjournment of the session.
Res. Ch. 129 (ACR 135) CROWN Discover America Vacation Planning Time.
  Requests Governor to proclaim April 21-26 Discover America Vacation Planning
Time.
Res. Ch. 130 (ACR 139) MULFORD Fire Service Recognition Day.
  Requests Governor to issue proclamation designating May 10, 1969, as "Fire
Service Recognition Day."
Res. Ch. 131 (ACR 142) MOBLEY National Raisin Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of April 20 through April 26 as National
Raisin Week.
Res. Ch. 132 (SCR 91) STEVENS Quality Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week of May 4-10, 1969, as Quality Week.
Res. Ch. 133 (SCR 101) DILLS Vocational industrial clubs.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week of April 28 through May 4 as Cali-
fornia Vocational Industrial Clubs of America Week.
Res. Ch. 134 (SJR11) COLLIER Sacramento River bank protection.
  Requests President and Congress to increase appropriation for Sacramento River
Bank Protection Project in President's Budget for fiscal year 1969-1970 to mini-
mum of 3.5 million dollars.
Res. Ch. 135 (ACR 105) MONAGAN Classified School Employees' Week.
  Commends California School Employees' Association and requests Governor to
proclaim week of May 25 through May 31, 1969, as Classified School Employees'
Week.
                     I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                                253

Res. Oh. 136 (AOR 108) C H A P P I E Country and western music.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim September 8-14, 1969, as Country and West-
ern Music Week.
Res. Ch. 137 (ACR 114) M c G E E "Veterans of Foreign W a r s .
  Requests Governor to proclaim June 21-27 as "Veterans of Foreign W a r s Week."
Res. Ch. 138 (ACR 115) M A C D O N A L D Know your county government.
  Requests Governor to proclaim October 13-17, 1969, as Know Your County Gov-
ernment Week.
Res. Ch. 139 (ACR 121) GARCIA Mexican-American Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim May 5 through May 11, 1969, as Mexican-Ameri-
can Week.
Res. Ch. 140 (ACR 159) B I D D L E City of Riverside.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Riverside.
Res. Ch. 141 ( S C R 102) D I L L S Maritime Day ; World Trade Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim May 22, 1969, as "Maritime Day" and May 18
through 24, 1969, as "World Trade Week."
Res. Ch. 142 (ACR 110) MONAGAN Odd Fellows Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of April 20th through April 26th as Inde-
pendent Order of Odd Fellows Week.
Res. Ch. 143 (ACR 152) M c G E E Los Angeles City Charter.
  Approves amendments to the Charter of the City of Los Angeles.
Res. Ch. 144 (ACR 147) C H A P P I E Death of Paul Claiborne.
  Extends condolences to Mrs. Mary Claiborne and family upon the death of P a u l
Claiborne.
Res. Ch. 145 (ACR 162) B E E Assemblyman Alan G. Pattee.
  Mourns the untimely passing of Assemblyman Alan G. Pattee, and expresses
condolences to his widow, his children, and his brother.
Res. Ch. 146 (SCR 43) S T I E R N Higher education : tenure.
  Directs Coordinating Council for Higher Education to study current California
tenure rules in the University of California, the California State Colleges, and the
public junior colleges; compare such rules in public and private institutions of
higher education in California and other s t a t e s ; state the objectives of t e n u r e ; set
forth policy alternatives to achieve those objectives; and report thereon not later
than May 8, 1969.
Res. Ch. 147 (SCR 88) RODDA "Canada-United States Goodwill Week."
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of April 27-May 3, 1969, as "Canada-United
States Goodwill Week."
Res. Ch. 148 (SCR 94) C O L L I E R Transportation Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week beginning May 11, 1969, as                      California
Transportation Week.
Res. Ch. 149 (SCR 98) B U R N S Be Kind to Animals Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of May 4-10, 1969, as the 55th National
Be Kind to Animals Week.
Res. Ch. 150 (ACR 155) GONSALVES Dairy Month.
  Urges Governor to proclaim June to be Dairy Month.
Res. Ch. 151 (ACR 163) RAY E. J O H N S O N City charter.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Chico.
Res. Ch. 152 (ACR 125) L E R O Y F . G R E E N E Exceptional children.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week of May 4th to 10th as "Council for Ex-
ceptional Children Week."
254                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 153 (AOR 137) C H A P P I E Columbian Squires Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of May 4 to 10 as "Columbian Squires
Week."
Res. Ch. 154 (ACR 166) B E L O T T I Thomas A. Maloney.
  Commends Thomas A. Maloney, former Assemblyman and State Senator, on his
80th birthday for his distinguished career of public service.
Res. Ch. 155 (ACR 167) B E V E R L Y Beach Safety Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim May 26 through June 1, 1969, as Beach Safety
Week.
Res. Ch. 156 (SCR 57) S C H R A D E Subcommittee on Legislative Assistance.
   Creates Subcommittee on Legislative Assistance of Joint Committee on Legisla-
tive Organization, with duty and responsibility of offering such assistance as may
be desired by Members of the Legislature, former members, and their families in
the event of the death of a member, former member, or a member of their families.
   Requires Sergeants at Arms and other officers and employees of the Legislature
to render such aid or assistance as may be requested by the subcommittee.
Res. Ch. 157 (ACR 17) B R I G G S State Highway Route 57.
  Names a portion of State Highway Route 57 the Orange Freeway.
Res. Ch. 158 (ACR 143) F O N G National Library Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim April 20 through April 26 as National Library
Week.
Res. Ch. 159 (ACR 164) QUIMBY Congressman H a r r y R. Sheppard.
  Expresses sorrow a t the death of former Congressman H a r r y R. Sheppard and
extends condolences to his widow.
Res. Ch. 160 ( A J R 13) VEYSEY Drug abuse.
   Requests President and Congress of United States to help check flow of nar-
cotics, marijuana, and dangerous drugs into California by effective administration
of, and dissemination of information on, relevant federal laws.
 Res. Ch. 161 ( S C R 89) D I L L S Alan Mowbray.
   Expresses regret of Legislature at death of Alan Mowbray.
 Res. Ch. 162 (SCR 99) K E N N I C K Senior Citizens'Month.
   Requests Governor to designate May 1969 as "Senior Citizens' Month."
 Res. Ch. 163 (SCR 107) S H E R M A N Berkeley City Charter.
   Approves amendment to Berkeley City Charter.
 Res. Ch. 164 (SCR 108) D E U K M E J I A N Municipal Clerks'Week.
   Commends municipal clerks for their contribution to successful government and
 requests the Governor to proclaim the week of May 19 through May 25, 1969, as
 Municipal Clerks' Week.
 Res. Ch. 165 ( S J R 25) K E N N I C K Queen Mary commemorative stamp.
    Urges Post Office Department to honor R.M.S. Queen Mary in 1970 by issuance
 of a commemorative stamp.
 Res. Ch. 166 (ACR 170) GONSALVES Municipal Clerks' Week.
   Requests Governor to proclaim May 19 through 25, 1969, as "Municipal Clerks'
 Week."
 Res. Ch. 167 (ACR 148) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Foster P a r e n t s Week.
   Requests Governor to proclaim the week of May 25 to 31, 1969, as Foster Par-
 ents Week.
 Res. Ch. 168 (SCR 100) C O L L I E R Future Business Leaders Week.
   Requests the Governor to proclaim the week of April 21 to 27, 1969, as " F u t u r e
 Business Leaders of America Week."
 Res. Ch. 169 ( S C R 110) B R A D L E Y California Wheelchair Games Days.
   Requests Governor to proclaim May 22 to May 25, 1969, as California Wheel-
 chair Games Days.
                   I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           255

Res. Ch. 170 (SCR 116) GRUNSKY City charter.
  Approves revision of Charter of City of Pacific Grove.
Res. Ch. 171 (SJR10) COLLIER Homeowners'property tax rebate.
  Memorializes President and Congress of the United States to exclude $70 home-
owners' property tax rebate from income for federal income tax purposes.
Res. Ch. 172 (SJR 13) LAGOMARSINO Carpinteria Valley flood control.
   Requests federal agencies to expedite their review of the Carpinteria Valley
Watershed Project Work Plan, requests administrator of Soil Conservation Service
to approve work plan, submit project to Congress in near future, and cooperate with
Department of Fish and Game in protecting wildlife in project area, and memorial-
izes Congress to approve, authorize, and appropriate funds for commencing work
on project.
Res. Ch. 173 (SCR 34) DOLWIG Eugene A. Doran Memorial Bridge.
  Designates bridge on Route 280 over Crystal Springs Road near Hillsborough
as the Eugene A. Doran Memorial Bridge in memory of the late Officer Eugene
A. Doran.
Res. Ch. 174 (ACR 118) MURPHY American Physical Therapy Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim June 29 through July 5, 1969, as American Phys-
ical Therapy Week.
Res. Ch. 175 (ACR 141) GONSALVES California Nursing Home Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week of June 15 to 21, 1969, as California
Nursing Home Week.
Res. Ch. 176 (ACR 154) MURPHY California Bee Industry Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim June 1 through June 7 as California Bee In-
dustry Week.
Res. Ch. 177 (ACR 157) CHAPPIE Golden Chain Council of the Mother
     Lode, Inc.
   Commends the Golden Chain Council of the Mother Lode, Inc., for its promo-
tion of historic Mother Lode area served by State Highway Route 49 and for its
work in the improvement and preservation of State Highway Route 49.
Res. Ch. 178 (ACR 161) MURPHY Capitola National Begonia Festival Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the week of August 31 through September 6,
1969, as Capitola National Begonia Festival Week.
Res. Ch. 179 (SJR 9) LAGOMARSINO Offshore oil development operations.
   Memorializes the President and Congress to provide for the transfer of inspec-
tion and regulation of oil and gas developments off the California coast to the state
and requests enactment of federal legislation to provide the necessary funding to
carry on the state inspection program. Memorializes the President and Congress
to provide for public hearings as specified.
Res. Ch. 180 (ACR 22) CROWN Crippled children services program.
  Requests Department of Public Health and State Crippled Children Serviced
Advisory Committee to identify medical problems worthy of inclusion in the Crip-"
pled Children Services Progam and to make recommendations to the Secretary of
Human Relations and the Legislature by the fifth legislative day of the 1970
Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 181 (ACR 169) Z'BERG Optimist Month.
  Requests Governor to proclaim June 1969 as Optimist Month.
Res. Ch. 182 (SCR 117) MOSCONE Italian Federation of California, Inc.
  Commends Italian Federation of California, Inc, on 50th anniversary.
Res. Ch. 183 (SCR 118) MARKS American Steuben Society.
  Congratulates American Steuben Society on 50th year of meritorious service to
Americans of German descent.
256               I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 184 ( S J B 17) LAGOMARSINO Santa Paula Creek Project.
  Memorializes Congress to appropriate necessary funds to immediately undertake
construction of the Santa Paula Creek Flood Control Project.
Res. Ch. 185 (SCR 113) RODDA Memorial Day.
  Urges the people of the State of California to remember the magnificent contri-
bution made by the deceased veterans of our armed forces by observance of Me-
morial Day.
Res. Ch. 186 ( S J R 3 ) C A R R E L L Sepulveda Basin water reclamation.
  Requests U.S. Army Corps of Engineers accept the application of the City of
Los Angeles for permission to construct a water reclamation facility in the Sepul-
veda Dam Basin.
Res. Ch. 187 (ACR 184) P R I O L O Sheriff Eugene W. Biscailuz.
  Memorializes Sheriff Eugene W. Biscailuz.
Res. Ch. 188 (ACR 191) L A N T E R M A N City charters.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Pasadena.
Res. Ch. 189 (ACR 171) P O W E R S Muscular Dystrophy Month.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim November 1969 as Muscular            Dystrophy
Month.
Res. Ch. 190 (ACR 189) K N O X City charters.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Richmond.
Res. Ch. 191 (ACR 181) P O W E R S "Apprenticeship Month."
  Requests Governor to proclaim month of June, 1969, as "Apprenticeship Month."
Res. Ch. 192 ( S C R 103) T E A L E Legislative Budget Committee.
  Makes $977,000 available to Legislative Budget Committee from          Contingent
Funds of the Assembly and Senate.
 Res. Ch. 193 ( S C R 112) S C H R A D E God Bless America Week.
   Requests Governor to proclaim week of June 29 through July 5 God Bless
 America Week.
 Res. Ch. 194 ( S J R 7) MOSCONE Supersonic boom.
   Memorializes the President and Congress of the United States to recognize the
 possible effect of supersonic booms and seek methods to alleviate their possible
 damage.
 Res. Ch. 195 ( S C R 58) SONG Robert H . Volk.
   Commends Robert H . Volk, upon occasion of his resignation as Commissioner of
 Corporations.
 Res. Ch. 196 (SCR 120) LAGOMARSINO Mosquito Control Week.
   Requests Governor to proclaim week of July 13th through 19th as "California
 Mosquito Control Week."
 Res. Ch. 197 (ACR 172) Z E N O V I C H City charter.
   Approves amendments to Charter of City of Fresno.
 Res. Ch. 198 (ACR 174) D U F F Y         City charter.
   Approves revision of Charter of City of Visalia.
 Res. Ch. 199 (ACR 179) M A C G I L L I V R A Y City charter.
   Approves amendments to Charter of City of Santa Barbara.
 Res. Ch. 200 ( A J R 42) P O W E R S Legal officers, armed forces.
    Memorializes Congress of the United States to approve and enact legislation to
 provide incentive pay for legal officers to make legal careers with the armed forces
 financially acceptable.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                              257

Ees. Ch. 201 ( A J R 44) C H A P P I E Retired military pay equalization.
  Memorializes Congress to enact legislation to equalize compensation of all retired
members of the uniformed services who have served in the same rank and for an
equal period of time.
Res. Ch. 202 ( A J R 45) D A V I S Recreation.
  Memorializes the President and the Congress of the United States to change
existing laws regulating grants for soil conservation purposes to include recreation
as a major beneficial use.
Res. Ch. 203 (ACR 67) W A K E F I E L D Drivers'license examinations: renewals.
  Requests the Director of Motor Vehicles to conduct a pilot study of methods of
screening applicants for renewal of drivers' licenses by limiting examinations for
renewal to vision test only with prescribed limitations; requires Director of Motor
Vehicles to submit to the Legislature a progress report in 1970 and a final report in
19711
Res. Ch. 204 (ACR 70) M A C D O N A L D Cal-Vet disaster indemnity.
   Requests Department of Veterans Affairs to process with dispatch all applica-
tions for disaster indemnity benefits of owners of Cal-Vet property damaged or
destroyed by recent floods and storms.
Res. Ch. 205 (ACR 199) D U N L A P Indoor Sports Club Week.
  Commends Indoor Sports Club, Inc., for achievement in aid of the seriously dis-
abled and requests Governor to proclaim week of J u n e 22-28, 1969, as Indoor
Sports Club Week.
Res. Ch. 206 ( S C R 114) D E U K M E J I A N Apartment Living Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim week of September 29th through October
4th as "Apartment Living Week."
Res. Ch. 207 ( S C R 125) D I L L S Motion pictures: Diamond Jubilee.
  Requests Governor to proclaim 1969 as Diamond Jubilee Year of motion pictures.
Res. Ch. 208 ( S C R 127) MCCARTHY City charters.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of San Rafael.
Res. Ch. 209 ( S C R 130) COOMBS          Walter Winston Woods.
  Commends Walter Winston Woods.
Res. Ch. 210 ( A J R 38) W I L S O N High cost of housing.
   Memorializes the President and Congress to study the problem surrounding the
high cost of lumber and its effect on house building and to take the necessary ac-
tion to alleviate this problem.
Res. Ch. 211 (ACR 188) P O W E R S Printers' Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim J a n u a r y 11 to 17, 1970, as Printers' Week.
Res. Ch. 212 ( S C R 16) SONG Law Revision Commission.
  Continues Law Revision Commission's authority to study listed topics, and ap-
proves removal of a topic from commission's agenda.
Res. Ch. 213 (ACR 201) M c G E E City charters.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Los Angeles.
Res. Ch. 214 (ACR 202) R U S S E L L City charters.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Burbank.
Res. Ch. 215 ( S C R 139) D I L L S Retirement of Chester Crain.
  Commends Chester Russell Crain for his years of service and congratulates him
upon retirement as Mayor of the City of Compton and as an instructor a t
Compton College.


    9—L-2180
258               1 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 216 ( S J R 1 9 ) M I L L S Urban public transit.
   Memorializes the Congress to enaet legislation setting up a trust fund for the
development and support of urban public transit with provisions protecting the
interests of employees of any transit systems affected thereby.
Res. Ch. 217 (ACR 41) M A C G I L L I V R A Y Emergency oil pollution control.
  Urges oil companies operating off the California coast to develop specified emer-
gency methods and equipment to control oil pollution.
Res. Ch. 218 (ACR 198) M O O R H E A D Relative to the Volksfest observance.
  Requests Governor to extend state's best wishes to the United States Army in
Berlin on occasion of Volksfest observance.
Res. Ch. 219 ( A J R 29) P A T T E E Payments to Philippine Scouts.
  Requests Congress to pass legislation which would provide adequate benefits for
members and survivors of Philippine Scouts.
Res. Ch. 220 (ACR 72) B E L O T T I Mendocino Headland area.
  Directs Department of Parks and Recreation to study feasibility of preserving
the Mendocino Headland and Big River Beach area in Mendocino County as a state
park and to report its findings and recommendations to the Legislature no later
than the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session.
Res.  Ch. 221 (ACA 15) B A R N E S Amends 2nd and 3rd paragraphs, Sec. 13,
     Art. X I I , and Sec. 30, Art. X I I I as proposed by ACA 3 1 , Cal. Const., re
     investment of retirement funds.
   Deletes specific exclusion of Teachers' Retirement Fund from provision author-
izing the investment of portions of public retirement funds in specific types of
common and preferred stock and shares in mutual funds.
   Makes identical change in Sec. 30, A r t . X I I I , as proposed by ACA 31.
   Makes technical change.
Res. Ch. 222 (ACR 182) B U R T O N Completion of transcontinental railroad.
   Commends contributions of the Chinese in the completion of the transcontinental
railroad.
Res. Ch. 223 (ACR 192) M I L I A S City charters.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Palo Alto.
Res. Ch. 224 (SCR 17) SONG Law Revision Commission.
  Authorizes Law Revision Commission to study additional topics relating to
counter claims and cross-complaints, liquidated damages, joinder of causes of action,
the rule against perpetuities, inheritance by nonresident aliens, and preference in
setting certain types of court actions for hearing or trial.
Res. Ch. 225 (ACR 205) P O R T E R City charters.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Compton.
Res. Ch. 226 (ACR 144) C U L L E N Legislative Counsel opinions.
  Requires Legislative Counsel to deliver copies of opinions on any particular
executive reorganization plan to the chairman of each standing committee to which
such plan is assigned.
Res. Ch. 227 (ACR 197) MONAGAN Bill of Rights Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim December 14 to 20, 1969, "Bill of Rights Week"
in California.
Res. Ch. 228 ( A J R 35) KNOX Design safety standards, motorbuses.
  Memorializes Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation to establish safety
standards for the design and construction of motorbuses sold or used in interstate
commerce.
                  1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          259

Res. Ch. 229 (SCR 132) SHERMAN "Discover Flying Month."
  Requests Governor to designate June 1969 as "Discover Flying Month."
Res. Ch. 230 (SCR 141) GRUNSKY Fourth of July.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim that the Fourth of July should be observed
by bellringing.
Res. Ch. 231 (SCR 138)     DEUKMEJIAN         Bob Hope.
  Commends Bob Hope.
Res. Ch. 232 (ACR 213) BARNES California Bicentennial Day.
  Requests Governor to proclaim July 16, 1969, "California Bicentennial Day'*
and to urge all citizens to take cognizance of the issuance of the California Bicen-
tennial Stamp at San Diego and to participate appropriately in the observance of
California's 200th birthday throughout 1969.
Res. Ch. 233 (ACR 56) BARNES Joint Legislative Retirement Committee.
  Makes $40,000 available from Contingent Funds of Assembly and Senate for
expenses of the Joint Legislative Retirement Committee.
Res. Ch. 234 (ACR 225) MURPHY Frances Bispo.
  Congratulates Frances Bispo upon her selection as National Dairy Princess.
Res. Ch. 235 (ACR 183) LEWIS Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Hinckley.
  Memorializes former Assemblyman Stewart Hinckley, and his wife.
Res. Ch. 236 (ACR 207) PRIOLO Safe Boating Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week commencing June 29, 1969, as Safe
Boating Week.
Res. Ch. 237 (ACR 211) BRIGGS Memorializing ME. Leif Johnson.
  Expresses regret upon the death of Mr. Leif Johnson, editor of the Fullerton
Daily News Tribune.
Res. Ch. 238 (AJR 14) MURPHY Establishment of national cemetery.
  Memorializes Congress to enact legislation to establish a national cemetery neap
San Luis Dam.
Res. Ch. 239 (AJR 15) KETCHUM Social welfare.
  Urges Congress and executive branch to consider the redirection of all federal
welfare programs toward maximum use of state and local agencies.
Res. Ch. 240 (ACR 217) LEROY F. GREENE Land Surveyor Week.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim week of October 4 to 11, 1969, as Land
Surveyor Week.
Res. Ch. 241 (AJR 54) MOBLEY Flood control project.
  Urges President and Congress to make an appropriation to allow the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers to conduct study on flood control needs and costs of San Joa-
quin-Kings River Interstream Group in Fresno County and adjacent counties.
Res. Ch. 242 (SCR 79) CUSANOVICH 1976 Summer Olympic Games.
  Reaffirms support of the 1976 Summer Olympic Games if Los Angeles is the final
chosen site.
Res. Ch. 243 (SCR 131) WHETMORE City of Los Alamitos.
  Commends City of Los Alamitos for redressing neglect of the memory of Gov-
ernor JosS Figueroa of Alta California and commends hanging of portrait of Gov-
ernor Figueroa in city's legislative hall.
Res. Ch. 244 (SCR 135) WHETMORE Archery Week in California.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of August 26 through September 1, 1969,
as Archery Week in California.
260                I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 245 (SCR 137) COOMBS Ray B. Williams.
  Commends Ray E. Williams upon his retirement.
Res. Ch. 246 (SCR 142) SONG City charters.
  Approves amendments to Charter of City of Alhambra.
Res. Ch. 247 (SCR 147) MARKS Junior Bowling Month.
  Requests Governor to proclaim month of July as "Junior Bowling Month."
Res. Ch. 248 (AJR57) MONAGAN Renewal area agency bonds.
   Memorializes the President and Congress of the United States to enact legisla-
tion to authorize extension of federal mortgage insurance to bonds of a type issued
by renewal area agencies.
Res. Ch. 249 (SCR 121) CARRELL Passenger air service.
  Requests Public Utilities Commission to approve nonstop passenger air service
between Hollywood-Burbank and Sacramento.
Res. Ch. 250 (ACR 206) POWERS Aerospace Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim week of August 24 through August 30, 1969,
"Aerospace Week."
Res. Ch. 251 (AJR 19) MONAGAN New Melones Dam Project.
  Requests Congress to appropriate during 1969-1970 fiscal year for construction
of New Melones Dam an amount sufficient to insure earliest possible completion
of the project.
Res. Ch. 252 (ACR 216) KETCHUM Brucellosis eradication.
  Commends the California Dairy Animal Health Committee and others for their
work in helping to eradicate bovine brucellosis.
Res. Ch. 253 (ACR 215) BAGLEY City charters.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of Petaluma.
Res. Ch. 254 (AJR 37) BURKE Oil drilling.
   Memorializes President and Congress to establish specified oil drilling sanctuaries
off the coast of California.
   Memorializes President and Congress to allocate a percentage of net revenue
from oil and gas operations conducted under federal lease off the California coast
to the state.
Ees. Ch. 255 (ACR 224) ZENOVICH College Football Centennial.
  Requests Governor to proclaim 1969 the College Football Centennial Season and
to designate October 11 to 18, 1969, as National Football Foundation Week.
Res. Ch. 256 (SJR 27) HARMER Santa Clara Flood Control Project.
  Memorializes President and Congress of United States to appropriate funds for
construction of Santa Clara River Flood Control Project and memorializes U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers to expedite their studies for the project.
Res. Ch. 257 (SCR 150) MARKS California Dental Centennial.
  Requests Governor Reagan to proclaim 1970 as California Dental Centennial
Year.
Res. Ch. 258 (SCR 81) HARMER. Water project plans.
   Directs Department of Water Resources, in cooperation with Departments of
Parks and Recreation and Fish and Game, to formulate a comprehensive plan for
the Castaic Reservoir Complex, Pyramid Reservoir, and portions of the California
Aqueduct located in Los Angeles County and to develop the comprehensive plan
for Castaic Reservoir in full cooperation with Los Angeles County and the United
States Forest Service.
                   I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           261

Res. Ch. 259 (SCR 93) MOSCONE Pollution abatement comparative study.
  Directs State Water Resources Control Board to conduct a contrastive study,
as specified, of water pollution abatement practices as existing in California and
the German Federal Republic with respect to the assessment of fees on water users
who discharge waste waters, and to report thereon to the Legislature not later
than the 30th legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 260 (SJR 18) DOLWIG Outer continental shelf lands.
  Memorializes Congress to recognize the precedent established in the Mineral
Lands Leasing Act of 1920 which allocates to state 37i percent of proceeds from
mineral extractions from federal lands therein and to recognize that the Land and
Water Conservation Fund should be augmented with additional unallocated fed-
eral funds; to allocate a portion of the revenue derived from mineral extraction
in the outer continental shelf lands to the states adjoining the outer continental
shelf lands; to provide subsidence and oil seepage disaster protection for the states
adjoining the outer continental shelf lands; and to create a commission of federal
and state technical personnel to establish drilling and safety procedures for devel-
opment of the oil resources of the outer continental shelf.
Res. Ch. 261 (SJR 24) ALQUIST Rail rapid transit.
  Memorializes President and Congress to extend the "Pell Plan" for creation of
interstate rail rapid transit authority to include the metropolitan areas of San
Francisco Bay, Los Angeles, and San Diego with provisions for the future linking
of the three systems.
Res. Ch. 262 (SJR 30) MCCARTHY Flood control projects.
   Memorializes President, Congress, and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to include
recreation and beautification in planning channel improvement and channel rec-
tification projects.
Res. Ch. 263 (ACA 30) GONSALVES Adds Sec. 24, Art. X X ; repeals Arts.
      X, XVII, Cal. Const., re revision of Constitution.
   Repeals provisions relating to state institutions and public buildings. Transfers
provision relating to convict labor. Deletes provisions relating to homesteads.
   Provides measure shall not be submitted to voters unless AB 1095 is enacted
and deposited in the office of the Secretary of State.
Res. Ch. 264 (ACA 31) BADHAM Adds Art. X I I ; Sec. 30, Art. X I I I ; and
     Sec. 23, Art. X X ; amends Sec. 1, Art. XIV; repeals Art. XII, Cal. Const.,
     re revision of the Constitution.
  Revises Art. XII, relating to public utilities. Transfers provisions relating to
the state's lending its credit and owning stock in corporations to Art. XIII. Trans-
fers to Art. XX provisions respecting the amending or repealing of laws concerning
corporations.
   Provides measure shall not be submitted to voters unless AB 1096 is enacted
and deposited in the office of the Secretary of State.
Res. Ch. 265 (SJR 28) LAGOMARSINO Oil pollution.
  Memorializes President and Congress to take immediate steps to commence in-
ternational negotiations with respect to the control of oil discharges from tankers,
as specified.
Res. Ch. 266 (SCR 95) DANIELSON Homes for the aged.
  Requests Joint Legislative Budget Committee to study the subject of property
tax exemptions for homes for the aged and report thereon to the Legislature by
the 30th calendar day of the 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 267 (SCR 123) MARKS Bay area rapid transit.
  Declares that the Legislature intends that the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid-
Transit District shall terminate its sales and use tax at an earlier date, if other
methods for financing the completion of the rapid transit system are made avail-
able by legislation hereafter enacted by the state or the federal government.
262               I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Ees. Ch. 268 (SCR 146) M A R K S San Francisco Police Athletic League.
  Commends San Francisco Police Athletic League on its 10th anniversary.
Res. Ch. 269 ( S C R 149) B R A D L E Y Russell E. Pettit.
  Pays tribute to the memory of the late Russell E. Pettit.
Res Ch. 270 ( S J R 16) H A R M E R Washoe Indian Tribe.
   Memorializes the President and Congress of the United States to enact legisla-
tion pertaining to certain lands in Alpine County, California, for the Washoe
Indian Tribe.
Res. Ch. 271 ( S J R 26) H A R M E R Sherman Institute.
  Memorializes federal government to provide an appropriation to improve facilities,
curriculum, personnel and services at Sherman Institute and an all-Indian school
board for the institute.
Res. Ch. 272 ( A J R 40) MONAGAN Taxation of government bonds.
  Memorializes President and Congress that no changes be made which would de-
prive state and local government obligations of immunity from federal taxation,
which would result in constriction of the market for state and local government
bonds, which would interpose federal judgment relating to policies of state and
local governments, or which would subject state and local borrowings to uncer-
tainties of the appropriation process of Congress.
Res. Ch. 273 ( S C R 144) COLOGNE Eel River Basin.
  Requests the Department of Water Resources to submit results of its Eel River
Basin alternative studies to the Legislature. Directs Senate Committee on W a t e r
Resources and Assembly Water Committee to hold joint public hearings and submit
comments to Governor.
Res. Ch. 274 ( S C R 152) D E U K M E J I A N Law and Morality Week.
  Requests Governor to proclaim the week of August 11th through August 18th as
"Law and Morality Week."
Res. Ch. 275 (SCR 153) B R A D L E Y      LeRoy V. B r a n t .
  Memorializes LeRoy V. Brant.
Res. Ch. 276 (SCR 156) B R A D L E Y City charters.
  Approves amendment to Charter of City of San Jose.
Res. Ch. 277 ( S C R 161) WAY Leaves of absence.
  Grants leaves of absence for more than 60 days to Governor, Lieutenant Gov-
ernor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, Controller, Treasurer, Superintendent
of Public Instruction, members of Board of Equalization and State Personnel
Board, and Senators and Assemblymen, and such persons' successors.
Res. Ch. 278 (ACR 25) M U L F O R D Hastings College of Law.
   Expresses intent of Legislature that the property located at 55 and 75 Hyde
Street, known as the old Bancroft Whitney Building, in San Francisco, be re-
served for the exclusive use of Hastings College of the Law.
Res. Ch, 279 (ACR 31) MOBLEY Student health needs.
  Requests Trustees of California State Colleges to make a study of health-care
needs of all the state colleges and to report to Legislature at 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 280 (ACR 109) STEROTY Rehabilitation workshops.
   Urges Department of General Services to explore with the California Associa-
tion of Rehabilitation Workshops ways in which the rehabilitation workshops can
participate in the purchasing program of the state and where feasible the workshops
be given preferential consideration in awarding contracts.
                   1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           263

Res. Ch. 281 (ACR 133) DAVIS Water project reports.
   Requests Director of Water Resources to report to the Legislature after author-
izing or adopting any project or major feature of any project, and provides for
transmittal of such reports to the appropriate water committees.
Res. Ch. 282 (ACR 151) BELOTTI Robert F. Fisher.
  Designates new bridge over Yager River on State Highway Route 36 as Robert
F. Fisher Bridge.
Res. Ch. 283 (ACR 156) THOMAS Legislative Audit Committee.
   Makes available $650,000 from Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate
for expenses of the Joint Legislative Audit Committee.
Res. Ch. 284 (ACR 212) PORTER Water pollution research.
   Commends International Association on Water Pollution Research and declares
state interest in Fifth International Conference on Water Pollution Research to
be held in San Francisco July 26 through August 1, 1970. Requests Governor,
state departments and agencies, and other interested persons and organizations to
support conference and assist and cooperate with association, United States Na-
tional Committee, and California host committee in making conference a success.
Res. Ch. 285 (ACR 236) LEWIS Redlands Day.
   Commends and congratulates citizens of Redlands on occasion of Redlands Day
at San Bernardino County Fair.
Res. Ch. 286 (AJR 48) ASSEMBLY COMMITTEE ON HEALTH AND
     WELFARE Public assistance.
  Urges President and Congress to establish uniform standards for public assist-
ance throughout the nation, and reverse federal policy of shifting greater burden
of costs to states.
Res. Ch. 287 (AJR 52) RYAN California Maritime Academy.
  Memorializes President and Congress of the United States to increase the fed-
eral government's share of funding of the California Maritime Academy.
Res. Ch. 288 (AJR 59) BELOTTI Federal-aid primary highway funds.
  Memorializes President and Congress to support and enact legislation to provide
for the distribution of federal-aid primary highway funds on a more realistic basis.
Res. Ch. 289 (AJR 47) UNRUH Food programs.
  Requests the transfer of the administration of the federal food-stamp and com-
modity distribution programs from the United States Department of Agriculture
to the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.
Res. Ch. 290 (SCR 14) HARMER Reorganization : urban school districts.
   Creates Joint Committee on Reorganization of Large Urban Unified School Dis-
tricts, to be composed of 5 Members of the Senate appointed by the Rules Com-
mittee thereof and 5 Members of the Assembly appointed by the Speaker thereof,
to ascertain, study, and analyze facts relating to the Los Angeles City School
District, the advisability of dividing the district into smaller units or of any other
suitable solution, and the whole need of the district, together with the complex
problems facing the district as a result of the concentration of minority groups,
the heavy concentration of poverty in the core area of the city, and the large size
of the district
   Makes $80,000 available from the Contingent Funds of Assembly and Senate for
expenses of committee.
Res. Ch. 291 (SCR 67) MCCARTHY State highways.
  Urges the California Highway Commission and the Department of Public Works
to increase the priority and expenditures given to state highways which are not
a part of the interstate highway system.
264                 I969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 292 (SCR 72) SHERMAN Geriatric screening.
   Urges Department of Mental Hygiene to institute a county-to-county program
to persuade counties to adopt methods of Geriatric Screening Project.
Res. Ch. 293 (SCR 87) STIERN Veterinary medicine.
  Urges the Board of Regents of the University of California to make public the
special report, relating to veterinary medicine, prepared in response to ACR 85,
1965 Reg. Sess., and to accelerate planning and budgeting for a southern California
school of veterinary medicine.
Res. Ch. 294 (SCR 119) SHERMAN Miller-Unruh Basic Reading Act.
   Requests Department of Education for purposes of allocating funds for 1969-
1970 fiscal year to employ specialist teachers in reading, to include as participating
districts those districts which would have received allocation to employ such teach-
ers during 1968-1969 fiscal year if appropriation for that year had been fully
allocated.
Res. Ch. 295 (SCR 134) HARMER Temple City Differentiated Staffing Pro-
     gram.
  Requests Department of Education to evaluate Temple City Differentiated Staff-
ing program and to determine advisability of state expenditure for establishment
of similar programs in other school districts.
Res. Ch. 296 (SCR 148) RODDA Relative to private schools.
  Requests Coordinating Council for Higher Education, with the cooperation of
State Department of Education and Superintendent of Public Instruction, to con-
duct specified study on private higher education in California.
Res. Ch. 297 (SCR 151) COLOGNE Delta levee study.
   Requests Department of Water Resources to undertake general review, as speci-
fied, of the condition of all levees within the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta area,
to make recommendations as to the sharing by local, state, and federal govern-
ments of specified costs in connection with such levies, and to submit a preliminary
report to the Legislature not later than February 1, 1970, containing recommenda-
tions on surveys and studies that are necessary to develop a comprehensive plan
of action.
Res. Ch. 298 (SCR 157) COLOGNE State water supply contracts.
  Requests Director of Water Resources to inform Legislature, through copies
presented to Chairman of Senate and Assembly Water Committees, of all proposed
changes to state water supply contracts entered into for supplying water from the
State Water Resources Development System, or policy determinations thereunder,
which the director deems to be of significant importance affecting state water
project financing and feasibility or manner of meeting original commitments to
deliver water. Requests director not to enter into any such major contract amend-
ments or policy determinations for 90 days after such notification, unless committees
present their comments and recommendations prior thereto or unless determined
by director to be of urgent nature.
Res. Ch. 299 (SCA 26) COLOGNE Amends Sec. 1, Art. XVI, Cal. Const., re
     state indebtedness.
   Provides that notwithstanding anything in the respective bond acts to the con-
trary, if any general obligation bonds of the state authorized before or after effec-
tive date of the measure have been offered for sale and not sold the Legislature
may raise the maximum rate of interest payable on all general obligation bonds
authorized but not sold, whether or not such bonds have been offered for sale,
by a f vote of members elected to each house.
   Ratifies provisions of Senate Bill No. 763.
Res. Ch. 300 (SCR 55) ALQUIST State universities and colleges.
  Requests the University of California and the California State Colleges, in ac-
cepting applicants for enrollment, to utilize specified priorities.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         265

Res. Ch. 301 ( S C R 155)    COLLIER      Herbert Hoover, Jr. Memoralizes Herb-
    ert Hoover, J r .
Res. Ch. 302 (SCR 159) S C H M I T Z "Space Pioneers Day."
  Requests Governor to proclaim July 20 "Space Pioneers Day" and memorializes
President and Congress to designate July 20 as permanent national holiday.
Res. Ch. 303 ( S C R 160) W H E T M O R E Independent College Month.
  Requests Governor to proclaim September as Independent College Month and
encourages the citizens of California to give wholehearted support to specified
independent colleges.
Res. Ch. 304 ( S J R 33) MCCARTHY Marine Mineral Technology Center.
  Memorializes President and Congress to give approval to budget requirements
of the Marine Mineral Technology Center in Tiburon.
Res. Ch. 305 (ACR 68) M I L I A S Merit award payments.
  Approves cash awards to state employees for suggestions submitted which save
the state money.
Res. Ch. 306 (ACR 210) S T U L L Campus disturbance expenses: study.
  Requires Joint Legislative Budget Committee to study the subject of state sub-
ventions to local government for law enforcement expense for controlling campus
disturbances in public higher education.
Res. Ch. 307 (ACR 243) M U R P H Y Redwood Discovery Day.
  Urges the Governor to proclaim October 10, 1969, as Redwood            Bicentennial
Discovery Day.
Res. Ch. 308 (ACA 7) R O B E R T I Amends Sec. 1, Art. I I , Cal. Const., re-
    voting requirements.
  Provides t h a t persons, otherwise eligible to vote, who can read the Constitution
in Spanish or in English, rather than only in English, may vote.
Res. Ch. 309 ( S C R 25) S T I E R N Campus disorders.
  Urges the Regents of University of California, Trustees of California State
Colleges, Board of Governors of California Community Colleges, the governing
boards of school districts to take immediate action to make all personnel concerned
with campus control cognizant of existing rules, regulations, and statutory pro-
visions available to control disorders, and to file criminal charges and institute
disciplinary proceedings, where appropriate, against those individuals who aid,
abet, or participate in illegal disruptive activites.
Res. Ch. 310 (SCR 124) DYMALLY Allensworth townsite.
  Expresses Legislature's support of efforts of Department of P a r k s and Recreation
to preserve the townsite of Allensworth in Tulare County.
Res. Ch. 311 ( A J R 22) QUINBY Bilingual education.
  Urges Congress to increase appropriation for bilingual education for the 1969-
1970 fiscal year from $7,500,000 to $30,000,000.
Res. Ch. 312 ( A J R 64) C A M P B E L L Nursing home administrators.
   Memorialzies the President and Congress to repeal the nursing home administra-
tor licensure requirement of Public Law 90-248.
Res. Ch. 313 (ACR 49) C R A N D A L L Average daily attendance.
  Requests Department of Education to study the procedures for determining
average daily attendance which became operative J u l y 1, 1968, and to report t o
Legislature not later than May 1, 1969.
Res. Ch. 314 (ACR 97) R U S S E L L Campers: safety standards.
  Requests California Highway Patrol to study and submit report to Legislature
on safety standards for campers designed to be mounted on motor vehicles, and t»
conduct an in-depth study of accidents or incidents involving campers mounted on
motor vehicles.
266                1969 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 315 (ACR 173) W A R R E N Use of DDT.
  Directs State Department of Public Health in cooperation with the University of
California to study the effects of the use of D D T and similar insecticides and
pesticides and report findings to the Legislature.
Res. Ch. 316 (ACR 177) VEYSEY Educational programs.
  Encourages public schools, business, industry, and government to develop formal
and informal cooperative arrangements to coordinate their resources, to improve
the quality and effectiveness of education, and to meet the manpower needs of
the work world.
Res. Ch. 317 (ACR 194) Z ' B E R G Landscaping state highways.
   Requests California Highway Commission and Department of Public Works
to seek other sources of funds to landscape state highways and to give special
attention to landscaping main approaches to state capital, within city limits of
Sacramento and an appropriate distance therefrom.
Res. Ch. 318 (ACR 238) MCCARTHY Public assistance.
  Requests State Department of Social Welfare not to repeal or substantially
modify existing educational trust fund regulations pending a legislative review.
Res. Ch. 319 (ACR 241) C H A P P I E Keep California Green Month.
  Requests the Governor to proclaim the month of September 1969 as "Keep
California Green Month" and to urge in his proclamation that the residents and
visitors acknowledge their responsibility to cooperate in fire prevention programs to
protect wildlife during critical fire outbreak months and throughout the year.
Res. Ch. 320 ( A J R 41) W I L S O N Cooperative federalism.
  Memorializes President and Congress to enact legislation permitting a business
the same federal tax deductions it would have received had it not participated in
a program with state tax incentives.
Res. Ch. 321 (ACR 130) C R A N D A L L Sabbatical leaves of absence.
  Requests Legislative Analyst, with cooperation of the Department of Education,
State Board of Education, and Department of Finance, to conduct a study of
sabbatical leaves of absence for certificated employees in kindergarten and grades
one to 12, inclusive.
  Requires report thereon in 1970.
Res. Ch. 322" (ACR 190) VASCONCELLOS Higher education.
  Requests Regents of the University of California and Trustees of California
State Colleges to modify their regulations re curriculum required for graduation for
students transferring from community or junior colleges and to report their action
to the Coordinating Council for Higher Education no later than December 1, 1969.
Res. Ch. 323 (ACR 203) STACEY Blue Star Memorial Highways.
  Designates State Highway Route 58 a Blue Star Memorial Highway.
Res. Ch. 324 (ACR 239) MONAGAN City of Lodi.
  Commending City of Lodi on its 100th anniversary.
Res. Ch. 325 (ACA 6) F O N G Amends Sec. 12 and adds Sec. 12.1, Art. IV,
     Cal. Const., re public schools : appropriations.
   Authorizes chairman of committee dealing with education in each house to in-
troduce, within first 30 days of each regular session, a bill embodying recommenda-
tions of the committee appropriating money to State School Fund and providing
for disbursement thereof. Specifies that neither bill may be passed by either house
until Budget Bill is enacted, or until 130 days after introduction of Budget Bill;
and specifies t h a t when 130 days have elapsed after introduction of Budget Bill,
and the latter has not been enacted, either or both of the school bills may be passed
by either or both of the houses on concurrence of f of membership of each house.
Specifies that this provision does not affect Governor's power to recommend emer-
gency bills for public school support.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                          267

Res. Ch. 326 (ACA 87) MOBLEY Amends Sec. 1, Art. XVI, Cal. Const.,
    ' re state indebtedness.
  Provides that notwithstanding anything in any bond act to the contrary, if any
general obligation veterans' bonds of the state authorized by the Veterans Bond
Act of 1968 before effective date of the measure have been offered for sale and not
sold, the Legislature may raise the maximum rate of interest payable on all such
general obligation veterans' bonds authorized but not sold, whether or not such
bonds have been offered for sale, by a f vote of members elected to each house.
  Ratifies provisions of Assembly Bill No. 886.
  Provides measure will not be submitted to voters if Senate Constitutional
Amendment No. 26 is approved by voters.
Res. Ch. 327 (A.JR 55) MCCARTHY Immigration.
   Memorializes President and Congress to enact legislation establishing a "floor"
for every foreign nation, insofar as immigration is concerned, based on 75 percent
of the annual average level of immigration to the United States during the decade
from 1956 to 1965.
Res. Ch. 328 (ACR 150) M A C D O N A L D California fishing industry.
  Directs the Secretary of the Resotirces Agency to prepare a study design for an
in-depth survey of the marine and inland fishing industries in California.
Res. Ch. 329 (ACR 185) MOBLEY Flood control projects.
  Requests Director of Water Resources, in coordination with the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers, to conduct study on flood control needs and costs of San
Joaquin-Kings River Interstream Group in Fresno County and adjacent counties
and to make report on findings to 1970 session of Legislature.
Res. Ch. 330 (ACR 233) M U L F O R D Medical assistance.
  Requests Joint Legislative Budget Committee and Legislative Analyst to study
potential cost and savings of an intermediate care facility program.
Res. Ch. 331 (ACA 29) KNOX Amends and renumbers, adds and repeals,
     various articles and sections, Cal. Const., re revision of Constitution.
  Revises by repealing, adding and transferring sections of Art. X I relating to
cities, counties and towns.
   To be submitted to the people only if A B 1094 is enacted and deposited in the
Office of Secretary of State.
Res. Ch. 332 ( A J R 24) K E T C H U M Vocational youth organizations.
  Memorializes the President, the Congress of the United States and the United
States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare not to implement the recent
policy that the staff of the United States Office of Education is prohibited from
directing the activities or from participating in the administrative decision making
of student organizations as officers.
Res. Ch. 333 (ACR 180) B R I G G S Atomic development and space.
  Extends duration of Joint Legislative Committee on Atomic Development and
Space from commencement of 1970 session to J u n e 30, 1970.
  Allocates $20,000 from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for
expenses of the committee.
Res. Ch. 334 (ACR 193) M I L I A S Conservation education.
   Expresses strong support of Legislature for program of conservation education in
California schools and urges all institutions of higher education, certified for teacher
training, to provide instruction in the facts and in teaching techniques of conserva-
tion education.
Res. Ch. 335 (ACR 195) V E Y S E Y Educational evaluation study.
  Authorizes study by Assembly and Senate Education Committees, acting as a.
joint committee, in cooperation with a 3-member committee of the State Board of
Education, to develop a program to assess the public schools of California.
  Allocates $30,000 from the Contingent Funds of the Senate and Assembly to
the joint committee for such purpose. States legislative intent as to additional
funding.
    268                 I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

    Bes. Ch. 336 (ACR 221) S T U L L San Dieguito River Basin.
      Requests the Department of W a t e r Resources, in cooperation with the City of
    San Diego, to formulate a basinwide water resources development plan for the
    San Dieguito River Basin.
,   Res. Ch. 337 (ACR 223) S T U L L Undergraduate instruction.
      Requests Regents of University of California and Trustees of California State
    Colleges to make concentrated effort to strengthen the importance and quality of
    undergraduate instruction on each campus of the University of California and
    the California State Colleges.
    Res. Ch. 338 (ACR 246) BAGLEY Homeowners' property tax exemption.
      Declares intent of the Legislature that provision permitting proof that application
    and statements required to be filed with a taxing agency were mailed on a specified
    date be applied to applications for the homeowners' property tax exemption, and
    that satisfactory proof provided for in such provision includes a notarized state-
    ment of an applicant for such exemption that his application was filed on such
    date.
    Res. Ch. 339 ( A J R 56) the Subcommittee on Welfare Reorganization of the
         Assembly Committee on Health and Welfare (Miller, Chappie, Hayes, Horn,
         and MacDonald) (Rls.). Public assistance.
      Urges Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to provide assurances that
    no fiscal disincentives for nonseparation will be imposed pursuant to regulations
    addressed to the separation of service functions from financial aid functions in the
    aid to families with dependent children program.
    Res. Ch. 340 (ACA 28) P R I O L O Amends subd. ( a ) , Sec. 24, Art. IV, adds
         Arts. X V I I I and X X I V , and repeals Arts. X V I I I and X X I V , Cal. Const., re
         revision of Constitution.
      Authorizes Legislature, by two-thirds vote, to withdraw its proposed constitutional
    amendment or revision prior to vote by electorate. Provides for uniform effective
    date for measures amending or revising Constitution, the day after approval by
    voters, unless a measure specifies a different date. Revises civil service provisions
    to exempt appointees of Lieutenant Governor and one person appointed or em-
    ployed by the Public Utilities Commission, and to include in state civil service
    certain nonstate employees in programs taken over by the state. Makes related
    changes.
      Contingent upon enactment and deposit with Secretary of State of Assembly
    Bill No. 1092 of 1969 Regular Session.
    Res. Ch. 341 (ACR 75) VEYSEY Higher education.
       Resolves that Joint Committee on Higher Education, in cooperation with
    Legislative Analyst, study feasibility and desirability of developing larger number
    of small college and university campuses.
    Res. Ch. 342 (ACR 86) R A L P H Genocide-telephone campaign: investigation.
      Requests the Attorney General and Public Utilities Commission of the State of
    California to separately conduct investigations of organized telephone campaigns in
    the state urging and advocating genocide and to separately report their findings
    and conclusions to the Legislature.
    Res. Ch. 343 (ACR 168) *Assembly Committee on Government Administration
        Legislative proceedings.
      States that Members of the Legislature recommit themselves to policy of open
    and public conduct of legislative proceedings.
    Res. Ch. 344 (ACR 227) B A D H A M Prado Dam and Reservoir.
       Requests Department of Water Resources to assist Corps of Engineer by co-
    ordinating efforts of state and local interests in a study of a multiple-purpose
    development of Prado Dam and Reservoir, and to initiate such cooperation and
    study in fiscal year 1969-1970 with funds contributed by Orange County W a t e r
    District and other agencies, and to continue such efforts in fiscal year 1970-1971
    with matching state funds.
    * Correction.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                         269

Kes. Ch. 345 (AOR 186) B E L O T T I Eel River flood control.
  Requests Department of W a t e r Resources to reevaluate proposals for providing
sufficient flood control benefits for the Eel River Basin, as specified, and to report
thereon to the Legislature by the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 346 (ACR 209) KNOX Bay area regional organization.
  Continues existence of Joint Committee on Bay Area Regional Organization
with authority to act, including any recess, until final adjournment of the 1970
Regular Session of the Legislature.
Res. Ch. 347 (ACR 228) VEYSEY Child care services.
  Requests Auditor General, Legislative Analyst, J o i n t Legislative Budget Com-
mittee, Joint Legislative Audit Committee, Department of Education, Department of
Social Welfare, and other departments or agencies selected by Auditor General to
make an analysis of the financing and costs of children centers programs and to
develop a uniform cost reporting system.
  Requires report of study findings be transmitted by the Auditor General, Joint
Legislative Audit Committee and Joint Legislative Budget Committee to Legisla-
ture by fifth legislative day of 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 348 (ACR 245) MONAGAN J o i n t committee: higher education.
  Extends the authority of the Joint Committee on Higher Education until J u n e
30, 1970, rather than until the commencment of the 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 349 ( S C R 64) D O L W I G Disabled rehabilitative services.
  Directs the Department of Rehabilitation to study feasibility of issuing an
identification card authorizing rehabilitative services anywhere in state to eligible
disabled persons registered with the department and to report its findings to t h e
                                                                           r
Legislature.
Res. Ch. 350 (SCR 82) ALQTJIST Agnews State Hospital.
   Requests Department of Mental Hygiene to submit plan to the Senate Finance
Committee and the Assembly Committee on W a y s and Means to provide a general
mental retardation facility at Agnews State Hospital, and to refrain from estab-
lishing new mental retardation programs there, or transfer mentally retarded
persons there, or remodel existing buildings there, until such plan has been sub-
mitted.
Res. Ch. 351 ( S C R 86) C O L L I E R Commercial vehicles.
  Requests Department of Motor Vehicles to make study relating to commercial
vehicles.
Res. Ch. 352 (SCR 136) WAY Joint Rules.
  Adopts Joint Rules of Senate and Assembly for 1969 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 353 (SCR 158) T E A L E Douglas Boulevard.
  Requests Division of Highways, Department of Public Works, to study traffic
congestion problem on Douglas Boulevard a t the entrance to the Folsom State
Park.
Res. Ch. 354 ( S J R 12) R O D D A School nutrition programs.
   Memorializes the President, the Congress, the Secretary of Agriculture, and
Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to support and continue school nu-
trition programs.
Res. Ch. 355 ( S C R 80) M A R L E R John R. Trainor Memorial Bridge.
  Designates bridge now under construction on State Highway Route 36 across
the South Fork of Cottonwood Creek as the John R. Trainor Memorial Bridge.
Res. Ch. 356 (SCR 109) T E A L E Forestry district office.
  Requests Secretary of the Resources Agency t o study possibilities of moving
the Division of Forestry District No. 3 office to a location within the Third Sena-
torial District and the Sixth Assembly District, rather than to a proposed location
in Sacramento County, when such office is required to be moved in 1974, and to
report thereon to the Legislature at the 1970 Regular Session.
270                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Oh. 357 (SCR 145) RODDA Interstate 5 bridge.
  Urges Department of Public Works to put plaque on bridge across Sacramento
River above Sacramento on Interstate 5 to dedicate it to the men of Sacramento,
Placer, Yolo, Yuba, and El Dorado Counties who gave their lives in the Vietnam
conflict. Urges department to accept contributions to be used for the plaque.
Res. Ch. 358 (ACA 60) VEYSBY Amends Sec. 7, adds Sec. 7.5, Art. I X ,
     Cal. Const., re public education.
   Deletes provision that State Board of Education compile and adopt uniform
series of textbooks for elementary schools to be distributed free to school districts.
Provides instead that board shall adopt textbooks to be furnished without cost, as
provided by statute, for use in grades 1 to 8 throughout state.
   Deletes provision that textbooks selected by board shall be used for minimum
of 4 years. Deletes specific provision authorizing textbooks to be printed in State
Printing Office.
    Deletes provision that the board of education and county superintendents in each
county shall have control of the granting of certificates to, and control of examina-
 tions of, teachers within their jurisdiction.
Res. Ch. 359 (SCR 154) WAY Legislature: constitutional recess.
  Recesses 1969 Regular Session for 30-day period required by Constitution at
the end of the sessions of each house on August 8, 1969, and reassembles Legisla-
ture a t 3 o'clock p.m. on September 8, 1969.
Res. Ch. 360 (ACA 12) B A 6 L E Y Amends Sec. 9, Art. I X , Cal. Const., re
     meetings of regents.
   Requires meetings of Regents of University of California to be public, with ex-
ceptions and notice requirements as may be provided by statute. Provides that,
if Legislature proposes a partial revision to Constitution in 1970 which includes
the open meeting requirement proposed by this measure, this measure shall not be
proposed to people or be placed on ballot.
Res. Ch. 361 (ACA 79) S T U L L Adds Subd. ( d ) , Sec. 4, Art. X X I V , amends
     subd. ( m ) , Sec. 4, Art. X X I V , and repeals Sec. 2.1, Art. I X , Cal. Const,
     re education : civil service.
   Deletes provisions requiring State Board of Education, on nomination of Superin-
tendent of Public Instruction, to appoint one Deputy Superintendent of Public
Instruction and three Associate Superintendents of Public Instruction who shall
be exempt from state civil service.
   Authorizes State Board of Education, on nomination of Superintendent of Pub-
lic Instruction, to appoint, exempt from state civil service, not more than two
Deputy Superintendents of Public Instruction and three Associate Superintendents
of Public Instruction, whose terms of office shall run concurrently with the term of
the Superintendent of Public Instruction who nominated them, but not to exceed
four years.
   Incorporates changes to Sec. 4, Art. X X I V , Cal. Const., proposed by ACA 28,
to be operative only if ACA 28 is adopted and approved by the electors.
Res. Ch. 362 (ACR 46) GONSALVES Route 105 Freeway.
  Names portion of Route 105 from Route 405 to Route 605 near City of Nor-
walk the Norwalk Freeway and portion of Route 105 from Route 1 near City of
El Segundo to Route 405 the El Segundo Freeway.
Res. Ch. 363 (ACR 149) ZENOVICH Schoolbus safety—seatbelt installation.
  Directs the State Board of Education to develop administrative regulations, which
must involve the entire area of interior passenger safety, including installation of
seatbelts in all schoolbuses purchased new after January 1, 1972, after considering
recommendations of the Institute of Transportation and Traffic Engineering,
U.C.L.A. and any other schoolbus safety studies now in progress.
Res. Ch. 364 (ACR 247) B E V E R L Y South Bay Daily Breeze.
  Commends South Bay Daily Breeze for 75 years of publication.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                           271

Res. Ch. 365 ( A J R 16) CORY Offshore oil development operations.
  Memorializes President and Congress to review and strengthen regulations of
federally controlled offshore oil operations, to permit state inspection and supervision
of offshore oil drilling facilities and practices off the California coast, to halt such
operations until a well-by-well inspection can be made, and to establish an insurance
fund to be used for the removal of oil pollution and for compensation to landowners
damaged by such pollution.
Res. Ch. 366 ( A J R 60) MONAGAN Vocational Education.
  Requests U.S. Congress to increase financial support for vocational education.
Res. Ch. 367 (ACR 153) B E L O T T I Fairs Allocation and Classification Com-
     mittee.
  Makes available from the Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate to the
Fairs Allocation and Classification Committee the amount of $15,000 in addition
to any money heretofore made available to it.
Res. Ch. 368 (ACR 222) VEYSEY Instructional television.
  Requests Auditor General to audit the cost of instructional television programs
in school districts, and Auditor General, Joint Legislative Audit Committee, De-
partment of Education, and other departments, agencies or committees selected by
the Auditor General, to determine the cost effectiveness of these programs.
  Enumerates areas to be covered in study and requires report from Auditor Gen-
eral to Legislature by the fifth legislative day of the 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 369 (SCA 29) D E U K M E J I A N Amends Sees, l i a and l i b , Art. X I I I ,
     Cal. Const., re disabled veteran's exemption.
   Increases to $10,000 the amount of property exempt from taxation owned by a
veteran with a permanent and service-connected disability, and extends exemp»
tion to home of his widow until such time as she may remarry.
   Extends blind veteran's exemption to home owned by a corporation in which the
veteran is a shareholder, and entitled thereby to possession.
Res. Ch. 370 (SCR 133) T E A L E Joint committee: public domain.
   Continues Joint Legislative Committee on Public Domain in existence, prescribes
its membership and its powers regarding the study of uses, current and projected,
of state lands, and the development of a system of automatic inventory thereof.
   Allocates $27,500 from Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for ex-
penses of committee in addition to any money heretofore made available to it.
Res. Ch. 371 (SCR 166) B U R N S Hugh P . Donnelly.
  Expresses regret at the death of former State Senator Hugh P . Donnelly.
Res. Ch. 372 ( S J R 15) S H O R T Federal flood control assistance.
  Memorializes Congress to enact pending legislation dealing with problem of the
amount of federal assistance to be available to disaster areas under already existing
programs.
Res. Ch. 373 ( S J R 29) MCCARTHY Point Reyes National Seashore.
  Memorializes President and Congress to purchase specified property and to sup-
port and enact S. 1530 and H.R. 3786, pending before the 91st Congress, which
would increase amount presently authorized for expenditure for the acquisition of
Point Reyes National Seashore lands. Requests National P a r k Service to re-
evaluate its budgetary requirements for the completion of the National Seashore.
Res. Ch. 374 ( S J R 32) H A R M E R California Indians.
  Memorializes the President and the Congress of the United States to establish
a policy that insures that California Indians are included to the fullest extent in
various federal programs and services that are available to other Indians of the
United States.
Res. Ch. 375 ( S J R 34) W H E T M O R E Richard Milhous Nixon birthplace.
  Memorializes President and Congress of the United States to enact legislation
to acquire, restore, and develop the birthplace of President Richard Milhous Nixon
and to designate that site as the Richard Milhous Nixon Birthplace National
Historic Site.
272                I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST

Res. Ch. 376 ( S C R 31) DYMALLY Indian studies.
  Urges Regents of University of California, trustees of state colleges, members of
governing boards of districts maintaining junior colleges, the Board of Governors
of the California Community Colleges, and the Coordinating Council for Higher
Education to establish designated courses and research projects in the history and
culture of American Indians and American Indian higher education programs.
Res. Ch. 377 (SCR 126) H A R M E R Narcotics.
  Requests Department of the Youth Authority to submit to 1970 Regular Session
of Legislature comprehensive report detailing efforts of department with regard
to treatment of youthful drug abusers and delineating success or failure of depart-
ment programs in rehabilitation.
Res. Ch. 378 ( S C R 128) A L Q U I S T Seismic safety.
  Establishes the Joint Committee on Seismic Safety. Allocates $5,000 from the
Contingent Funds of the Assembly and the Senate.
Res. Ch. 379 ( S C R 129) H A R M E R Drug addicts.
  Directs State Department of Mental Hygiene to present report to 1970 Regular
Session of Legislature which would provide an evaluation of kinds and types of
services as well as effectiveness of those services provided by community mental
health programs with respect to the treatment of drug abuse.
Res. Ch. 380 ( S C R 140) RODDA United Nations Day.
  Requests Governor to proclaim October 24, 1969, as "United Nations          Day"
in California.
Res. Ch. 381 ( S C R 163) B R A D L E Y M. G. Del Mutolo.
  Pays tribute to the memory of Judge M. G. Del Mutolo.
Res. Ch. 382 ( S C R 164) COOMBS National Wine Festival Month.
  Requests Governor to proclaim October 1969 as National Wine Festival Month
in California.
Res. Ch. 383 ( S C R 165) M A R K S Project Concern.
   Requests Governor to proclaim September 6, 1969, as "Project Concern's Walk
for Mankind Day."
Res. Ch. 384 ( A J R 62) VEYSEY Alien pupils.
  Requests Congress to provide cost of education, less state reimbursement, of
pupils who are illegal entrants to United States, thereby reducing financial hard-
ship to school districts and counties. Requests U.S. Department of Immigration be
provided more assistance in controlling illegal entrance of alien pupils across
international borders of the United States.
Res. Ch. 385 (ACR 127) VEYSEY Applications for federal funds.
   Requests the Superintendent of Public Instruction to establish a broad-based
working committee composed of selected school district business officials to develop
a consolidated application form and to develop improved administrative procedures
for the application for and the disbursement of federal categorical aid funds.
   Requires detailed proposal thereon to be submitted in 1970.
Res. Ch. 386 (ACR 175) BAGLEY National tax policy.
  Creates ten-member Joint Committee on National Tax Policy, to study federal
tax and revenue sharing proposals and inform the Legislature of federal action
on tax matters affecting California.
Res. Ch. 387 (ACR 204) H A R V E Y J O H N S O N Joint Legislative Ethics Com-
    mittee.
  Makes $10,000 available from Contingent Funds of Assembly and Senate for
expenses of the Joint Legislative Ethics Committee.
Res. Ch. 388 (ACR 214) B I L L G R E E N E Sixth District Agricultural Associ-
     ation.
  Requests Sixth District Agricultural Association to reconsider its order to City
of Los Angeles to vacate property of the association upon which the city main-
tains a recreational center.
                   I 9 6 9 REGULAR SESSION SUMMARY DIGEST                        273

Res. Ch. 389 (ACR 218) VEYSEY State college budget study.
   Requires Joint Legislative Budget Committee to study budgetary procedures re-
lating to California State Colleges and feasibility and desirability of affording
trustees greater control and responsibility over the allocation of funds appropriated
to colleges and over financial operations of the auxiliary and foundation funds.
Res. Ch. 390 (ACR 220) C H A P P I E Joint Committee—Legislative Organiza-
     tion.
   Makes money available from Contingent F u n d s of the Assembly and Senate
for expenses of Joint Committee on Legislative Organization and for expenses of
Constitution Revision Commission.
   Authorizes Joint Committee on Legislative Organization to continue existence of
Constitution Revision Commission.
Res. Ch. 391 (ACR 226) CONRAD American Revolution Bicentennial Com-
    mission.
  Makes available $2,000 from Contingent Funds of the Assembly and Senate for
expenses of Joint Interim Committee on the American Revolution Bicentennial
and its members.
Res. Ch. 392 (ACR 229) B E V E R L Y Education for Vietnam veterans.
  Requests University of California and California State Colleges to accept honor-
ably discharged veterans of the United States military services, who were California
residents at the time of their entry into such military service, even though they
are not fully eligible under regular standards of admission, if they are deemed
to show promise, motivation, and ability to successfully complete a university or
state college education. Requests that such veterans be accepted in numbers in
addition to, and without regard to, law, rule, or policy relating to acceptance of
students who do not meet all admission requirements.
Res. Ch. 393 (ACR 234) P R I O L O Robert E. McClure Tunnel.
  Designates the Olympic Tunnel on the Santa Monica Freeway as Robert E .
McClure Tunnel.
Res. Ch. 394 (ACR 128) VEYSEY Vocational education.
  Requests the Advisory Council on Vocational Education to engage in a compre-
hensive, in-depth study of the feasibility of a statewide "career ladder" transferable
curriculum and statewide "career ladder" guidance and counseling system from
the high school level to the community college level.
  Requires report thereon to Legislature in 1971.
Res. Ch. 395 ( A J R 66) MONAGAN Intergovernmental cooperation.
   Memorializes the Congress of the United States to enact amendments to Inter-
governmental Cooperation Act of 1968 to permit state legislatures to receive funds
for research, demonstration and feasibility purposes under existing federal grant-
in-aid programs.
Res. Ch. 396 (ACR 249) K N O X Medi-Cal.
   Directs the Auditor General to conduct an immediate study of payment of claims
of pharmacists under the Medi-Cal program and report findings and recommenda-
tions not later than fifth legislative day of 1970 Regular Session.
Res. Ch. 397 (ACR 250) K N O X Legislature: adjournment sine die.
  Adjourns 1969 Regular Session at 5:00 o'clock p.m. on September 10, 1969.
Res. Ch. 398 (SCR 167) WAY Everett McKinley Dirksen.
  Memorializes death of United States Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen.
CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES
  BILL TO CHAPTER NUMBER

     1969 REGULAR SESSION
              CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES
                       ASSEMBLY BILLS
mbly BUI   Chapter   Assembly Bill      Chapter   Assembly Bill   Chapter
  1           56         148            1476          290            64
  3          997         151               62         292           797
  5        1441          152               96         293           498
  8            1         158            1220          305           130
 11           73         159              402         306           297
 21          788         160               28         307           798
 22            2         162            1221          309           799
 35           21         164              750         310           131
 36           13         165              165         314           298
 37          748         167               17         315           132
 38          749         169              791         316           108
 44        1214          170              792         317           182
 45           57         171              793         319           299
 46           18         173              124         322           300
 49          181         174            1222          324         1382
 52        1520          175              125         325         1512
 53        1408          180              794         328           162
 54        1215          184                4         329           404
 5T          372         185               29         332           648
 60        1442          186              534         334           359
 61        1535          189              403         336           133
 62           26         190              721         338            83
 63          373         191              281         340           460
 66        1521          192            1223          341           301
 67           11         193            1526          342           671
 68           74         194              126         343           134
 69        1522          195              127         351            84
 74        1523          196              128         352           376
 76           52         200              519         353           110
 77          400         201              751         356         1383
 79          947         208              166         357           302
 80           51         209               44         358           135
 83        1216          211               45         367            34
 84          533         212               46         369            12
 85          358         215              203         370           560
 87          469         216               47         373           136
 89           41         219            1224          375         1228
 92           95         221                 3        378           137
 93            8         225            1594          380           377
 95        1524          229            1527          387           138
 96          153         232            1225          388         1530
 98          106         236              535         389           536
100        1217          237              375         392            65
101          374         241              795         393           525
102          590         242              796         394           649
104          123         245              752         396           754
105          231         248               82         401           204
107          459         252              524         402         1229
109        1340          257            1226          406           609
111          296         258            1227          407           526
113           27         259              608         410         1536
115          401         261            1528          411         1531
116        1525          267            1402          412           800
118          789         268              102         413           482
120          790         271            1529          414            58
121           42         276               48         415           139
122        1218          277               97         416           140
124        1219          278               49         417           141
133           33         281               63         418            98
136          518         283               30         424         1230
140        1368          284            1381          425            87
143           61         285              129         426           360
144           43         287              753         430           378
146          232         289              217         435           109

                                (277)
278                       CROSS REFERENCE TABLE
Assembly Bill   Chapter    Assembly Bill   Chapter   Assembly Bill   Chapter
    439           142          594           472         734           163
    442           143          595           539         737         1595
    443         1532           596         1591          739         1486
    444         1533           597           651         741         1617
    446           537          598           809         745           313
    447           303          604           234         747         1246
    448           470          606           784         750           701
    455         1054           618           810         753         1343
    457          304           620           308         757           823
    458          144           622         1238          758           578
    462          218           623         1239          759           824
    463          305           624          100          760         1514
    464          483           625          561          763          612
    465          520           629          484          765          222
    466          650           630          407          766          223
    469          461           631          235          767          224
    470          306           632          811          768          225
    471          538           634          812          769          314
    472          499           636          813          774          825
    473         1616           638         1443          776         1247
    474          167           640          309          778           283
    476          471           641          380          782         1344
    478         1231           642          814          783          613
    480         1232           643         1385          784          826
    493          610           645         1585          789         1421
    494         1233           647         1444          791          382
    495          755           653          362          792          827
    501           85           658         1240          793          285
    502          405           659          310          796          411
    503          145           661          575          798         1248
    504          146           662         1600          801          412
    506         1341           663          220          805          207
    512          801           665          815          809          502
    514          219           666         1241          814          413
    516           14           668          236          816         1249
    518         1234           671          540          817          614
    521         1235           673          816          818          542
    524         1534           674          221          819         1250
    526          233           675         1242          820          828
    527          147           676          576          821          829
    530         1609           678         1445          822          830
   531            22          679           408          823         1538
   532          1369          680           311          824          414
   533           307          681           611          828          415
   534          1424          682           500          829          238
   535           802          683           817         830           486
   537           183          687           409          831          831
   538           406          688           363         835           239
   539            32          689           237          836          416
   542           148          692          1243         837          1539
   544          1236          697           410         838           417
   558          1237          699           541         839           418
   563           361          700           178         840           315
   564          1384          701           818         841           832
   565          1614          703          1513         845          1592
   566          205           706           282         849           833
   567          379           707           819         851           240
   568          177           708           948         852           834
   569          149           709            31         853           615
   571          150           710           501         854           756
   572          803           712          1244         855           316
   574          804           714           485         856           226
   576          462           715           820         858           227
   577          151           717          1342         859          1425
   584          805           718           821         860           473
   585          206           720          1245         865          1540
   587           75           721          312          866          1251
   589          806           722          364          868           835
   590           99           725          381          870          1055
   591          1537          726          822          873          383
   592          807           727          179          874           66
   593          808           729          577          876          527
                          CROSS REFERENCE TABLE                         279
Assembly Bill   Chapter    Assembly Bill   Chapter   Assembly Bill   Chapter
    877          1541         1022           365        1166           761
    878          1542         1023           366        1171           426
    880           503         1025           490        1173           385
    882           521         1027         1109         1174         1546
    886         1252          1031         1487         1175           565
    887         1446          1032           208        1176           762
    890           284         1034           241        1177           862
    894            23         1035         1493         1178         1372
    895           836         1036           845        1179           323
    896         1253          1042           617        1182           324
    900           101         1048           319        1186         1473
    902           317         1051           846        1189           427
    903           543         1052         1543         1190           863
    905           528         1056           847        1191         1489
    906           474         1058           848        1194         1490
    907         1254          1061          1057        1205           864
    909         1255          1067           849        1209         1413
    910           652         1068           422        1210         1414
    911           384         1069           618        1213           628
    913         1612          1070           423        1214           763
    914           164         1071           320        1219         1065
    915           837         1072           758        1220         1267
    916           616         1073          1544        1221         1066
    919           529         1074           242        1222           428
    922           487         1075           424        1223          1346
    923           522         1077           759        1225           599
    929           318         1078           476        1229           865
    930          1256         1079           850        1235           546
    931           330         1082          1058        1237           477
    932           838         1084           851        1239          1067
    934          1257         1086            76        1240          1068
    936           544         1087          1059        1243           547'
    937          1258         1089          1488        1244          1587
    938          1596         1091           852        1245          1069
    939          1259         1092           853        1246           764
    942           419         1093          1060        1249           866
    947           475         1094          1264        1250           765
    949           562         1095           854        1251           766
    950          1386         1096           855        1254          1598
    957          1260         1100          1265        1257           209
    961          1387         1103           856        1264           429
    967           839         1104           321        1266           620
    968          1370         1108          1447        1272           548
    970          1403
                              1110           229        1273           621
    972          1345         1113          1061        1274           622
    974          1404
                              1115           653        1276           325
    978          1371
                              1117          1586        1278          1389
    981           591         1123          1266        1279           505
     983          463
    984          1261         1124           322        1286          1427
    986           722         1125           425        1292           506
     987          545         1120          1448        1293           507
     988          530         1130           857        1294           386
     989          228         1133           858         1298         1547
     990          840         1135           859        1300          1449
     991          563         1136           760        1303           549
     992          564         1137          1062        1304           508
     993         1597         1139           243        1305           867
     995           841        1142           257         1306          550
     996         1262         1143           491         1308         1070
     997         1263         1144          1063         1310         1347
     998          488         1146           654         1312         1071
   1000          1056         1147          1064         1325         1268
   1005           152         1149          1613         1326          492
   1008           420          1150           860        1327         1072
   1010           842          1152           619        1334 ,        509
   1011           843          1154           504        1335         1073
   1012           464          1159           244        1336           868
   1015           489         1160            861        1339           869
   1016           844          1161         1426         1340         1451
   1018           421          1162         1545         1341         1452
   1020           757          1165         1388         1350         1390
280                      CROSS REFERENCE TABLE

Assembly BUI   Chapter    Assembly Bill   Chapter   Assembly Bill   Chapter
   1351         1418         1534          1552        1751          1353
   1353          870         1535           436        1752          1281
   1354        1548          1539         1273         1753           901
   1356        1269          1540           887        1754           902
   1362        1453          1546         1553         1755           724
   1367          510         1547         1394         1756           570
   1373          623         1551           769        1757           446
   1374        1391          1552           888        1760           773
   1377          871         1553          1515        1761           552
   1378          430         1554           656        1762           903
   1383          655         1558          1082        1763           904
   1387        1392          1560           566        1764           905
   1388        1074          1563         1554         1772           906
   1389          872         1564         1395         1775         1457
   1391          258         1587         1516         1776           907
   1393          431         1588         1083         1779         1282
   1394        1393          1595         1274         1781         1283
   1398          579         1596         1084         1782           908
   1402          367         1599         1085         1783         1284
   1403        1549          1600         1086         1784         1285
   1404        1550          1601         1087         1787         1470
   1405          873         1613         1088         1790           480
   1407        1075          1622           437        1796           909
   1408        1076          1623         1089         1797           657
   1410        1270          1643         1606         1798           210
   1412        1077          1644           889        1799         1491
   1415        1551          1645           890        1800           328
   1417        1348          1654           327        1801           910
   1418          432         1667         1116         1805           582
   1419          874         1668         1474         1806           571
   1421         1078         1670           891        1811           911
   1428          875         1671         1352         1812         1286
   1429          876         1676           438        1813           514
   1433          433         1677           439        1816           912
   1437          877         1681           892        1817           625
   1438          878         1682           479        1820         1555
   1439          767         1683           893        1821         1556
   1444        1271          1688           513        1823           913
   1447          879         1689           770        1824           914
   1451          245         1690           771        1825           774
   1454        1419          1691           440        1826         1287
   1456          326         1692          1090        1827         1354
   1460        1420          1694           441        1828         1398
   1464          880         1695           531        1830         1458
   1466        1079          1697           512        1836          368
   1470          434         1698         1091         1838          915
   1471          768         1700         1275         1840          369
   1473          881         1701           442        1841          447
   1474        1466          1702           894        1842         1557
   1475        1272          1703           895        1845           702
   1477         998          1705         1455         1847         1289
   1480         624          1706           567        1854          916
   1482        1475          1708           723        1855          775
   1484         882          1713           568        1865          515
   1485         580          1714           772        1868          776
   1486        1454          1716         1276        1869           917
   1487         883          1718           443       1870           918
   1489        1349          1719         1456         1873          919
   1491        1080          1726          899        1874           920
   1492         884          1728          896        1875          1290
   1494         478          1735          444        1876          1355
   1504        1350          1737          569        1877          1397
   1508         387          1738         1277        1878           921
   1509        1081          1739          551        1881           922
  1511         1351          1740          897        1883          1558
   1515         511          1741         1278
                                                      1885           923
   1516         435          1743         1279
                                                      1888           924
   1518         581                                   1890           925
                             1746         1396                       448
   1519         885                                   1893
  1523          465         1747           445        1894           572
  1530         1373         1749          1280        1895          1291
   1532         886          1750          898        1896          1459
                          CROSS REFERENCE TABLE                          281
Assembly Bill   Chapter    Assembly Bill   Chapter   Assembly Bill   Chapter
  1898          1559         2064            466       2239          1571
  1906          1292         2065          1301        2241          1316
  1913          1399         2066          1302        2242          1317
  1915            449        2067            659       2243          1095
  1917          1293         2076          1410        2245          1572
  1920            553        2077          1303        2247            941
  1921          1615         2078          1304        2249            467
  1929          1560         2079            481       2250            453
  1931          1294         2080            626       2251            454
  1932            246        2081          1305        2252            783
  1933            247        2083          1564        2253            455
  1934            926        2084            935       2254          1318
  1937          1295         2093          1306        2256          1096
  1939          1092         2101            554       2262          1319
  1942            388        2106          1593        2263          1097
  1943          1356         2109          1565        2265          1460
  1946            370        2119            936       2266            942
  1955          1296         2126          1307        2267          1320
  1956          1400         2129          1566        2269            556
  1958          1297         2136          1567        2271          1573
  1970            493        2139          1359        2272          1590
  1971          1422         2144          1517        2273          1098
  1973          1561         2163          1308        2278            557
  1975          1357         2174          1309        2279          1321
  1977          1562         2175            555       2281          1574
  1979          1358         2182            532       2285            943
  1980            927        2187          1310        2287          1575
  1985          1298         2189          1568        2292            944
  1987            450        2200          1311        2293          1518
  1989            777        2204          1618        2294            371
  1992          1093         2209            937       2295            787
  1993          1094         2210          1312        2297            494
  1998          1588         2212          1589        2300          1519
  2000            928        2213          1492        2302          1099
  2003            929        2214          1363        2305          1322
  2008            930        2215          1313        2315          1461
  2016          1299         2216          1314        2318            516
  2024            451        2217            938       2319            945
  2026          1563         2218          1569        2323          1361
  2027            931        2219          1570        2337            517
  2028            932        2220          1360        2338          1323
  2036            778        2221          1315        2344             86
  2037            933        2223            779       2345          1324
  2053          1300         2225            939       2346            946
  2055           934         2226            780       2347            725
  2056           600         2228                      2349            900
                                             781       2350            523
  2057           713         2229            940       2352            627
  2061            658        2231            782       2357           1100
  2063            452        2232          1576        2359           1325
                      CROSS REFERENCE TABLE

                           SENATE BILLS

nate Bill   Chapter     Senate Bill   Chapter   Senate BUI   Chapter-
    2           24         152          727        284         157
    4        1428           153           88       285         583
   11         286           154           54       287         729
   13          726          164        1579         288         120
   14        1101           166         704         289          72
   15          168          168         186         291         730
   19        1288           169           78        293        337
   21           67          172        1494        294         968
   22         592           176         956         295         558
   23        1607           178           89        296         731
   27         593           180         263         297        289
   29        1429          181          175        298         121
   36            6          183         677         300       1478
   38        1102           188         678         302         252
   40         949           190        1118         303        661
   41         950           191         212         305       1495
   43         703           192        1605         308          91
   46         676          193          957        310          969
   49         180           195         728        311         662
   50         111          197          213        316        1362
   52         951           199           79       321         495
   54           36         201          187        322         732
   57        1430           203           59       323          265
   59        1326          205          116        327        1375
   60           10          206           69       334         970
   62         248           207           80        335         630
   63         249          210            55       338         290
   64         331          211          958        339          170
   66        1412           213         959        342         971
   72        1117          215          960        348         680
   75         211          216             7       349          158
   76         184          220         1432        354          733
   78           50         221          961        356           92
   79         287          225         1110        358         631
   85         332          226          103        362        1581
   86         112          227            70       363        1599
   88        1462          230            71       364         389
  93          154          231          188        367         190
  97         1374          232          117        368        1111
  98          155          233             5       373         191
  99          113          234          672        383         122
 102          114          236          334        385         681
 104          156          238            90       386         972
 105          115          241          629        387         338
 106            19         242          264        388         584
 108        1431           243         1477        390         973
 109            35         244         1619        392         974
 113          260          247          962        395         975
 115          952          248          118        401         266
 119          169          249          963        402         267
 120          333          250         1119        403         682
 122          953          252         1608        404         601
 123          250          255          355        405         253
 124            37         256          964        407         976
 125           25          257           20        408        1601
 126          288          259          251        410         602
 129            53         265          965        412         171
 130            68         267          335        413         977
 133             9         268          679        415         978
 134            16         269          104        418        1376
 136           38          270          336        421       1401
 137          954          272          966        422         339
 138           39          273          714        423         715
 140          261          274           81        424         192
 142          185          278           15        426         979
 144            77         279          189        427       1120
 146          955          281        1580         428       1415
 150           40          282          119        429         663
 151          262          283          967        433         559
                       CROSS REFERENCE TABLE                     283
Benate BUI   Chapter    Senate Bill   Chapter   Senate BUI   Chapter
  434         340         580           673       721        1017
  437         980         586          1124       722         349
  439         254         587           705       723        1018
  440         255         590           994       725        1331
  441         159         592           995       730        1364
  442         160         595           736       734        1106
  445         172         598           346       737        1463
  446         161         603           199       739        1019
  447         173         605           347       740         356
  453        1121         606            60       741         739
  455         981         608           996       742         273
  456         585         611            94       747         706
  458         341         612           684       750         604
  459         982         615           270       751        1602
  460         983         616           393       754        1020
  465         734         618           271       757         687
  466         342         621           635       758        1021
  470         291         624          1125       759        1022
  472         984         627           456       760         597
  473         193         628           737       761         395
  475         390         630           259       763         740
  476         391         631          1126       764         741
  479         105         632          1113       766        1482
  481        1479         633           999       767        1433
  484        1480         635          1104       768         496
  488         343         636           636       769        1023
  490         664         637           637       772         688
  493         716         640           348       773         274
  496        1122         642          1000       776         275
  499         985         643           668       777        1024
  501         194         644           595       782         640
  503        1610         645          1001       784         200
  504         986         646           638       788         468
  506         603         647          1497       792         717
  508        1481         650          1002       793         587
  510        1103         651          1003       795        1434
  513         987         654          1004       796         201
  515         594         657          1329       798        1025
  516         988         658          1105       799         276
  517         735         660          1005       800         174
  519         989         662          1006       801         707
  523         990         664           685       806         457
  525         632         666          1007       807        1026
  526         268         668           292       810        1465
  528         195         669          1008       813         708
  530          93         671          1127       814         293
  531        1578         672          1009       815        1027
  532        1112         673           596       816         641
  533        1496         674          1423       817        1028
  534         196         676           586       822        1114
  535         633         677          1498       824        1332
  536        1123         678          1010       825        1464
  537         197         679          1411       829        1029
  539         683         680          1011       834        1030
  540         269         681          1012       836        1499
  541        1405         682           272       840        1107
  542        1406         684           674       841        1031
  550         665         688          1013       844        1435
  551         198         695           738       846        1032
  553         344         696           686       847        1416
  554         634         699           669       849         742
  555         666         702          1128       850         743
  567         991         704          1014       851        1108
  568         392         707           215       853        1033
  570         992         709           573       857        1417
  571         176         715          1330       858         689
  572        1328         716          1015       866         277
  574         345         717           216       867        1034
  575         667         718           394       870        1377
  577         214         719          1016       871        1436
  579         993         720           639       872         690
284                      CROSS REFERENCE TABLE

 Senate Bill   Chapter     Senate Bill   Chapter   Senate Bil   Chapter
    874        1500          1031          352       1231         695
    878        1035          1032         1144       1233        1186
    879        1378          1034         1582       1237         696
    880          744         1035           497      1238        1327
    882           745        1037         1145       1240         329
    884         1036         1039         1146       1252        1379
    885         1450         1040           645      1253        1367
    886         1437         1045         1147       1261        1469
    887         1501         1046         1148       1265        1187
    890         1037          1047        1149       1272        1188
    893         1038         .1048        1150       1273        1189
    900         1611         1052         1151       1274          353
    901         1129          1055          230      1279          458
    905           746         1056        1504       1282        1190
     906          350         1057          398      1284          606
     913        1130          1059          295      1285        1191
     917        1039          1060          399      1286        1471
     919        1040          1063        1152       1288        1192
     923        1467          1064        1153       1291        1193
     924        1041          1065        1438       1295        1194
     925        1502          1072        1336       1296        1195
     926          691         1075        1365       1297          785
     928          351         1078          646      1298        1196
     931          396         1079        1439       1299        1197
     932        1333          1082        1154        1300         598
     933          397         1086        1155        1301       1584
     936          692         1091        1505        1302         589
     937        1131          1095          605       1303         697
     938        1132          1097        1156        1304       1198
     939          709         1101        1157        1305       1407
     941        1042          1102         1158       1307         280
     944          588         1105         1053       1308       1199
     947        1043          1107         1159       1309         647
     950         1044         1113         1160       1312         747
     951         1045         1115         1161       1313       1200
     958         1046         1116         1162       1314         698
     961          642         1120         1163       1317         710
     964          278         1121         1506       1318         354
     966        1483          1122         1164       1324         786
     968          643         1123         1507       1330         711
     969          202         1125         1165       1331         699
     974          693         1127         1508       1332        1201
     975         1603         1128         1166       1342        1202
     982        1503          1134         1337       1363         607
     983         1047         1135         1167       1365        1509
     984        1048          1136         1168       1366         712
     988        1049          1140         1169       1370       1203
     991          644         1148         1409       1373        1204
     992         1604         1149         1170       1378        1205
     993          294         1150         1366       1379        1338
     998          279         1152          694       1381        1206
     999          660         1154         1171       1382        1207
   1001          1050         1155         1172       1386        1484
   1004           256         1158         1173       1387        1510
   1009          1334         1160         1174       1389       1472
   1010          1051         1175         1175       1393        1577
   1013          1052         1186         1468       1397        1380
   1014          1133         1189         1176       1398        1440
    1016         1134         1191         1177       1399        1208
    1018         1115         1201         1178       1402        1209
    1019         1135         1202         1179       1405        1210
    1020         1136         1208         1180       1413        1511
    1021         1137         1210         1181       1416        1211
    1023         1335         1214         1182       1417         357
    1024         1138         1219         1183       1420        1485
    1025           718        1221         1184       1423         675-
    1026         1139         1222           670      1424        1212
    1027         1140         1223           719      1426        1213
    1028         1141         1226         1583       1427         720
    1029         1142         1228         1185       1428         700
    1030         1143         1230           574      1433        1339
      CROSS REFERENCE TABLE

ASSEMBLY CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS
        Resolution   Chapter   Resolution   Chaoter
            81         102        173        315
            84         117        174        198
            86         342        175        386
            88         109        177        316
            89         110        179        199
            90         111        180        333
            91          95        181        191
            94         112        182        222
            95          81        183        235
            97         314        184        187
            99         113        185        329
           100          96        186        345
           101          88        188        211
           108         128        189        190
           105         135        190        322
           107         103        191        188
           108         136        192        223
           109         280        193        334
           110         142        194        317
           112         114        195        335
           113          97        197        227
           114         137        198        218
           115         138        199        205
           118         174        201        213
           121         139        202        214
           125         152        203        323
           127         385        204        387
           128         394        205        225
           130         321        206        250
           133         281        207        236
           134         122        209        346
           135         129        210        306
           137         153        211        237
           138         108        212        284
           139         130        213        232
           141         175        214        388
           142         131        215        253
           143         158        216        252
           144         226        217        240
           146         118        218        389
           147         144        220        390
           148         167        221        336
           149         363        222        368
           150         328        223        337
           151         282        224        255
           152         143        225        234
           153         367        226        391
           154         176        227        344
           155         150        228        347
           156         283        229        392
           157         177        233        330
           159         140        234        393
           161         178        236        285
           162         145        238        318
           163         151        239        324
           164         159        241        319
           166         154        243         307
           167         155
           168                    245         348
                       343
           169         181        246         338
           170         166        247         364
           171         189        249         396
           172         197        250         397
286                        CROSS R E F E R E N C E T A B L E

                    ASSEMBLY JOINT RESOLUTIONS
 Resolution      Chapter     Resolution            Chapter     Resolution   Chapter
       4            22           20                   99           47         289
       5            91           22                  311           48         286
       7            92           24                  332           52         287
       8            50           29                  219           54         241
     10             63           35                  228           55         327
     11             98           37                  254           56         339
     12             75           38                  210           57         248
     13            160           40                  272           59         288
     14            238           41                  320           60         366
     15            239           42                  200           62         384
     16            365           44                  201           64         312
     19            251           45                  202           66         395

              ASSEMBLY CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
Resolution       Chapter     Resolution            Chapter     Resolution   Chapter
       6           325            28                 340            60        358
       7           308            29                 331            79        361
     12            360            30                 263            87        326
     15            221            31                 264

                SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTIONS
Resolution      Chapter      Resolution            Chapter     Resolution   Chapter
      1              5            63                  74          120         196
      2            13             64                 349          121         249
      3              7            65                  66          123         267
      4              8            66                  67          124         310
      6            14             67                 291          125         207
      7            10             68                 116          126         377
      9            19             69                  78          127         208
     10              9            72                 292          128         378
     11            20             74                 104          129         379
     12            24             75                 123          130         209
     13            15             76                 124          131         243
     14           290             77                 106          132         229
     16           212             79                 242          133         370
     17           224             80                 355          134         295
     19            36             81                 258          135         244
    20             25             82                 350          136         352
    21             37             86                 351          137         245
    23             38             87                 293          138         231
    24             29             88                 147          139         215
    25            309             89                 161          140         380
    26             30             90                 125          141         230
    27             89             91                 132          142         246
    29             39             93                 259          144         273
    31            376             94                 148          145         357
    34            173             95                 266          146         268
    35             46             96                 126          147         247
    36             47             97                 105          148         296
    37             59             98                 149          149         269
    38             60             99                 162          150         257
    39             61           100                  168          151         297
    40             62           101                  133          152         274
    42             51           102                  141          153         275
    43            146           103                  192          154         359
    44             53           104                  127          155         301
    45             40           107                  163          156         276
    46             52           108                  164          157         298
    49             69           109                  356          158         353
     50            54           110                  169          159         302
    51             42           112                  193          160         303,
    55            300           113                  185          161         277
    56             65           114                                           381
                                                     206          163
    57            156
    58                          116                  170          164         382
                  195
     59            90           117                  182          165         383
    61             73           118                  183          166         371
    62             55           119                  294          167         398
                                 CROSS REFERENCE TABLE                           287
                          SENATE JOINT RESOLUTIONS
Resolution            Chapter     Resolution         Chapter   Resolution     Chapter
      3                 186           13               172         26           271
      4                  82           15               372         27           256
      7                 194           16               270'        28           265
      8                 120           17               184         29           373
      9                 179           18               260         30           262
     10                 171           19               216         32           374
     11                 134           24               261         33           304
     12                 354           25               165         34           375


                    SENATE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS
Amendment             Chapter     Amendment          Chapter
    26                  299           29               369




              BILLS VETOED BY GOVERNOR
                                ASSEMBLY BILLS VETOED
 112, 130, 181, 550, 602, 655,                    1579, 1582, 1640, 1659, 1660, 1687,
 723, 740, 764, 797, 871, 921,                    1725, 1732, 1804, 1860, 1930, 1941,
 925, 969, 1002, 1064, 1148, 1231,                2140, 2222, 2264, 2316, 2342.
1248, 1320, 1348, 1349, 1468, 1544,



                                 SENATE BILLS VETOED
  3,          39,    77, 91,      100,     103,    916, 949, 1017, 1080, 1147, 1165,
111,         158,   326, 360,     374,     400,   1168, 1185, 1209, 1258, 1262, 1319,
468,         494,   511, 564,     687,     733,   1326, 1432.
744,         775,   805, 843,     865,     883,
N
    TABLE OF SECTIONS AFFECTED
            1969 REGULAR SESSION




10—L-2180
              SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 REGULAR
                      SESSION CHAPTERS
                                     Ad =              Added
                              Ad ( R N ) =             Added by Renumbering
                                    Am =               Amended
                                    Art =              Article
                                     Ch =              Chapter
                                    Div =              Division
                               Inc. Ref. =             Incorrect Reference
                                      Pt =             Part
                                      R =              Repealed
                                    RN =               Renumbered
                                       S =              Supplemented
                                     TO =              Title Omits

                                      AGRICULTURAL CODE
                  BUI       Chapter                                      BUI     Chapter
Section           No.        No.             Effect         Section      No.      No.        Effect

  101        AB 387           138         Am, S17          12107      A B 1210   1414      Ad77
  464        SB 311           662         Am               12108      A B 1210   1414      Ad 77
                                                                                              77
 3806        A B 387          138         Ad, S "          12109      A B 1210   1414      Ad77
 3968        AB2294           371         Am 17            12110      A B 1210   1414      Ad77
 4101        AB 387           138         Am, S17          12111      A B 1210   1414      Ad77
 4102        AB 387           138         Am, S            12112      A B 1210   1414      Ad 77
 4104        SB 1116         1162         R20              12121      A B 1210   1414      Ad
 4105        SB 1116         1162         R®>              12824      S B 1140   1169      R&Ad
 4106        SB 1116         1162         R00              12825      SB 1140    1169      R&Ad
 4534        AB 1917         1293         Am               12826      S B 1140   1169      R&Ad
 6723        AB    89          41         Am               12827      S B 1140   1169      Ad
10067        AB 116          1525         Am*              12828      S B 1140   1169      Ad
10405        AB 116          1525         Am*              12971      A B 1209   1413      R&Ad
10423        AB 457           304         Am               12972      AB 1209    1413      Am & R N ,
11402        A B 1210        1414         Am"                                              Ad
11406        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             12973      AB 1209    1413      Ad
11407        A B 1210        1414         Ad77             12974      AB1209     1413      Ad
11408        A B 1210        1414         Ad77
                                             77            12975      AB1209     1413      Ad
11409        AB 1210         1414         Ad               12976      AB1209     1413      Ad ( R N )
11513        AB 1210         1414         S7777            12977      AB 1209    1413      Ad
12001        A B 1210        1414         Ad 77            12978      AB 1209    1413      Ad
12002        AB 1210         1414         Ad               14001      SB 1140    1169      R&Ad
12003        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             14002      SB 1140    1169      R&Ad
12004        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             14005      SB 1140    1169      R&Ad
12005        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             14006      SB 1140    1169      R&Ad
12006        A B 1210        1414         Ad77             14012      S B 1140   1169      Ad
12007        AB 1210         1414         Ad77
12008        A B 1210        1414         Ad77             14101      S B 1140   1169      Ad
12009        A B 1210        1414         Ad77             14102      S B 1140   1169      Ad
12021        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             14103      S B 1140   1169      Ad
12101        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             14104      SB 1140    1169      Ad
12102        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             16003      AB    89     41      Am
12103        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             18713      AB    89     41      R
                                                           19031      A B 665     815      R*
12104        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             19032      A B 665     815      R*
12105        AB 1210         1414         Ad77             19033      AB 665      815      R*
12106        A B 1210        1414         Ad77             19034      A B 665     815      R*
 * Effective immediately.
17
20
   See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting   provisions
77
   Operative July 1, 1970.
  Not operative untU January 1, 1970.

                                                        (291)
292                     SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                        AGRICULTURAL CODE—Continued
                Bill     Chapter                                       BUI     Chapter
Section         No.        No.         Effect        Section           No.       No.           Effect

19035       A B 665         815     R*              19367        A B 665         815      Ad*
19036       A B 665         815     R*              19380        A B 665         815      Ad*
19200       A B 665         815     Ad*             19381        A B 665         815      Ad*
19201       A B 665         815     Ad*             19382        A B 665         815      Ad*
19202       A B 665         815     Ad*             19383        A B 665         815      Ad*
19203       A B 665         815     Ad*             19384        AB 665          815      Ad*
19204       A B 665         815     Ad*             19385        A B 665         815      Ad*
19205       A B 665         815     Ad*             19400        A B 665         815      Ad*
19206       A B 665         815     Ad*             19401        A B 665         815      Ad*
1920T       A B 665         815     Ad*             19402        A B 665         815      Ad*
19208       A B 665         815     Ad*             19403        A B 665         815      Ad*
19209       A B 665         815     Ad*             19404        A B 665         815      Ad*
19210       A B 665         815     Ad*             19420        A B 665         815      Ad*
19210.5     A B 665         815     Ad*             19421        A B 665         815      Ad*
19211       A B 665         815     Ad*             19430        A B 665         815      Ad*
19212       A B 665         815     Ad*             19432        A B 665         815      Ad*
19213       A B 665         815     Ad*             19433        A B 665         815      Ad*
19214       A B 665         815     Ad*             19440        A B 665         815      Ad*
19220       A B 665         815     Ad*             19441        A B 665         815      Ad*
19221       A B 665         815     Ad*             19443        A B 665         815      Ad*
19222       A B 665         815     Ad*             19444        A B 665         815      Ad*
19223       A B 665         815     Ad*             20002.5      SB 850          743      Ad
19224       A B 665         815     Ad*             20008.2      SB 850          743      Ad
19225       AB 665          815     Ad*             20008.4      SB 850          743      Ad
19226       A B 665         815     Ad*             20408        SB 291          730      R950 5
19240       A B 665         815     Ad*             20467        SB 291          730      Am
19241       A B 665         815     Ad*             20468        SB 291          730      Am 9B
19242       A B 665         815     Ad*             20469        SB 291          730      Am 9 5
19260       A B 665         815     Ad*             20754         S B 1330       711      Am 09 55
19261       A B 665         815     Ad*             20755         S B 1330       711      Am 85
19262       A B 665         815     Ad*             20756         S B 1330       711      Am
19280       A B 665         815     Ad*             21051         SB 850         743      A95
                                                                                            m
19281       A B 665         815     Ad*             21057         SB 291         730      R
19282       A B 665         815     Ad*             21059         S B 1330       711      Am, S93
19300       A B 665         815     Ad*             21062         SB    850      743      Ad
19301       A B 665         815     Ad*             21081         SB    850      743      A m73
19302       A B 665         815     Ad*             21175         SB    850      743      Ad 9 5
19320       A B 665         815     Ad*             21203         SB    291      730      Am
19321                                                                                      96
            AB 665          815     Ad*             21234         SB    291      730      R
19322       A B 665         815     Ad*             21235         SB    291      730      R»59 5
19340       A B 665         815     Ad*             21236         SB    291      730      Am
19342                                                                                          06
            A B 665         815     Ad*             21283         S B 1330       711      Am, S96
19343       A B 665         815     Ad*             21285         S B 1330       711      Am, S95
19344       A B 665         815     Ad*             21286         S B 1330       711      Am, S
                                                                                           96
19346       A B 665         815     Ad*             21287         SB 291         730      R
19347                                                                                           5
            A B 665         815     Ad*             21288         SB 1330        711      Am, S»
                                                                                               93
19348       A B 665         815     Ad*             21289         S B 1330       711      Am, S
                                                                                           9B
19349       AB 665          815     Ad*             21290         SB 291         730      R
19350       AB 665          815     Ad*             21291         S B 1330       711      R&Ad95
19352       A B 665         815     Ad*             21324         AB2294         371      R
19353       A B 665         815     Ad*             21455         SB 291         730      Am 9 5
19354       A B 665         815     Ad*             21481         SB 291         730      R95
19355       A B 665         815     Ad*             21511         SB 291         730      R95
19356       A B 665         815     Ad*             21563         SB 1330        711      Am, S95
19357       A B 665         815     Ad*             21563.5       S B 1330       711      Ad, S95
19358       A B 665         815     Ad*             21564         SB 291         730      R96
19360       A B 665         815     Ad*             21566         S B 1330       711      R&Ad05
19362       A B 665         815     Ad*             21592         AB2294         371      R
19363       A B 665         815     Ad*             21705         SB    291      730      Am 9 5
19364       A B 665         815     Ad*             21747         SB    291      730      Am 9 5
19365       A B 665         815     Ad*             24561         AB    970      1403     Ad*
19366       A B 665         815     Ad*             24562         AB    970      1403     Ad*
 * Effective immediately.
 ™ Penalties collected pursuant to section not available for expenditure until appropriated.
 «Certain increases in fees not available for expenditure until appropriated.
                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                           293
                         AGRICULTURAL CODE—Continued
                 Bill     Chapter                                       Bill      Chapter
Section          No.       No.           Effect        Section          No.        No.          Effect

24563      AB 970          1403      Ad*              55002        A B 782        1344      R
30801      SB 1210         1181      Am               55003        A B 782        1344      R
30803      SB 1210         1181      Am               55004        A B 782        1344      R
30805      SB 1210         1181      Am               55005        A B 782        1344      R
30806      SB 1210         1181      Ad               55031        A B 782        1344      R
31401      AB1806           571      Am               55032        A B 782        1344      R
34231      AB 446           537      Am               55033        AB2294          371      Am,
34261      A B 446          537      Am                            A B 782        1344      R
35811      AB 446           537      Am               55034        A B 782        1344      R
Div. 14,                                              55035        A B 782        1344      R
Pt 2                                                  55061        A B 782        1344      R
Oh. 2,                                                55062        A B 782        1344      R
Art. 14                                               55064        A B 782        1344      R
(heading ) A B 506         1341      Am               55091        AB 782         1344      R
36121      AB 506          1341      R                55111        A B 782        1344      R
36122      AB 506          1341      R                55112        A B 782        1344      R
           AB 506          1341                       55113        A B 782        1344      R
36123                                R&Ad             55114        A B 782        1344      R
36124      AB 506          1341      R                55115        A B 782        1344      R
36151      AB 506          1341      R                55116        A B 782        1344      R
36152      AB 506          1341      R                55117        A B 782        1344      R
36603      A B 446          537      Am               55118        A B 782        1344      R
36631      AB 446           537      Am               56161        SB   59        1326      Am
36637      A B 446          537      Am, S            56221        SB   59        1326      Am
37853      A B 936          544      Am               Div. 20,
37883      AB 936           544      Am               Ch.7,
37943      AB 836           544      Am               Art. 6
Div. 15,                                              (heading) S B 658           1105      Am
Pt.3,
Ch.5,                                                           SB    59          1326      Am
Art. 12                                               56252     S B 658           1105      Ad
(heading) AB 446             537     Am                         SB 59             1326      Ad
38397      AB 446            537     Ad               56253     SB 658            1105      Ad
38742      AB 1735           444     Ad                         SB    59          1326      Ad
38933      SB 554            634     Am *I0S          56254     S B 658           1105      Ad
38933.5    SB 554            634     Ad*                        SB    59          1326      Ad
38986      A B 415           139     Am *             56443     S B 658           1105      Am
43605      AB 734            163     Am                         SB    59          1326      Am
43804      AB 1893           448     Am               56444     SB 658            1105      Am
43805      AB 1893           448     Am                         SB    59          1326      Am
43806      AB 1893           448     Am               56451     S B 658           1105      Ad
43807      AB 1893           448     Am                         SB    59          1326      Ad
44972      AB 729            577     Am               56534     SB    59          1326      Am
44974      AB 729            577     Am               56535     SB    59          1326      Am
44975      AB 729            577     Am               56571     SB    59          1326      Am
45633      AB 734            163     Am               58605     A B 289            217      Am*
45663      AB 734            163     Am               58656     A B 289            217      R&Ad*
47691      SB 571            176     Am *                       A B 1876          1355      R (as
47692      SB 571            176     Am *                                                   enacted
47693      SB 571            176     Am *                                                   by Stats.
48054      SB 535            633     Am                                                     1969,
48059      S B 535           633     Ad                                                     Ch. 217)
48214      A B 734           163     Am               58657         A B 1845        702     Am
49401      S B 234           672     Am *             58682         AB 1845         702     Am
49402      SB 234            672     R&Ad*            58772         A B 1845        702     R
49643      SB 964            278     Am               58775         AB 1845         702     Am
49753      SB 234            672     Am *             58776         A B 1845        702     R
49754      SB 234            672     Am*              58892.1       A B 289         217     Ad*
49851      S B 234           672     Ad*              58892.2       A B 289         217     Ad*
49852      SB 234            672     Ad*              58893         A B 289         217     Am *
55001      AB 782           1344     R                59111         A B 1845        702     Am
  * Effective Immediately.
 196
                                                                                 ,.            , ,
    Certain licensees may obtain prorated refund, etc., upon written request to director prior to January 1,
        1970.
294                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                            AGRICULTURAL CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                          Bill    Chapter
Section           No.        No.       Effect   Section      No.      No.        Effect

59618        AB 2294          371     Am        62707.2   AB 1876    1355      Ad (title
61414        AB 2294          371     Am                                       purports
61806        A B 1492         884     Am                                       to ad but
61806.5      A B 1492         884     Ad                                       no ad in
61944        AB 2294          371     R                                        text)
62474.5      AB 1492          884     Ad        62707.3   A B 1876   1355      Ad (title
62478        AB2294           371     Am                                       purports
62491        AB1504          1350     R&Ad*                                    to ad but
62492        A B 1876        1355     Am                                       no ad in
62521        A B 415          139     S*
62522        AB 415           139                                              text)
62523        A B 415          139     s*        62708.5   A B 1086      76     Ad*
62524        A B 415          139     s*        64155     AB 2294      371     Am
                                      s*
 * Effective immediately.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                                295

                            BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE
                   Bill      Chapter                                         Bill       Chapter
 Section           No.        No.            Effect        Section           No.         No.            Effect

 100         AB 387             138        Am, S "        2996      S B 871             1436       Ad
  101        A B 816          1249         Am             2996.2    S B 871             1436       Ad
  130        A B 1523           465        Ad             2996.5    S B 871             1436       Ad
 205         AB 816           1249         Am             2996.6    S B 871             1436       Ad
  525         SB 1134        1337          Am            Div. 2,
  526        SB 1134         1337          Am            Ch. 7
 651.3        SB 1102        1158          Am            (3000 et seq.)
 652.5       SB 1102         1158          Ad                       SB 1095              605       S
 655         SB 932          1333          Ad, S          3056      S B 1095             605       Ad
 656         S B 1102        1158          Ad             3131      S B 782              640       Am
 710         AB 845          1592          Ad la          4031.5    SB 816               641       Ad
1245         AB 316            108 ,       Ad             4036      SB 816               641       Am
1300         SB 572          1328          Am             4036.2    AB1306               550       Ad
1303         SB 572          1328          Am             4047.5    A B 527              147       Ad
1617         AB2294            371         Am             4140.5    SB 817              1028       Ad
1628         A B 537           183         S              4211      SB 816               641       Am
1633.5       SB 129              53        Am             4228      A B 527              147       Am
1636         AB 537            183         Ad             4322      S B 844             1435       Am
1656         SB 1379         1338          Ad201         Div. 2,
1680         SB 1379         1338          Am            Ch. 10
2123.3       SB 405            253         Am            (commencing
2137.1       AB1250            765         Am*            4500)     AB 1335             1073      S
2144.5       SB 519            989         Ad             4506      AB1335              1073      R&Ad
2147         AB 916            616         Am                                                     (RN)
2147.5       A B 916           616         Am             4506.5  AB1335                1073      Am&BN
2193         AB 880            503         Am             4509    A B 1335              1073      Ad
2193.1       SB 270            336         Ad             4509.5  AB1335                1073      Ad
2376.5       SB 1332         1201          Am             4905    SB 1025                718      Am*
2396         SB 392            974         Am             5081    S B 696                686      Am
2451.4       SB 1097         1156          Am             5085    S B 696                686      R
2496         SB 1332         1201          Am             5087    S B 696                686      Am
2631.5       SB 188           678          Ad             5103    SB 696                 686      R
2633         SB 1228         1185          Am             5271    A B 1931              1294      Am
2682         SB 1398         1440          Am             5272    A B 1931              1294      Am
2690         SB 1398         1440          Ad             5325    A B 1931              1294      Am
2691         SB 1398         1440          Ad             5521    AB2294                 371      Am
2692         SB 1398         1440          Ad             5541    A B 1020               757      Ad
2693         SB 1398         1440          Ad             5626    AB2294                 371      Am
2693.5       SB 1398         1440          Ad             5640    AB1535                 436      Am
2694         SB 1398         1440          Ad             5681    AB2078                1304      Am
2695         SB 1398         1440          Ad             6007    S B 928                351      Am
2696         SB 1398         1440          Ad             6060.6  S B 793                587      R
2736         AB 877          1541          Am             6060.7  S B 793                587      R
2736.5       AB 845          1592          Ad202          6301.5  A B 167                 17      Ad
2736.6       AB 877          1541          Ad            Div. 3,
2786.6       AB 877          1541          Ad            Ch.6
2860.5       SB    86          112         Am            (commencing
2873         AB 876            527         Am             6500)   S B 244               1619       g 187

2881.1       AB 878          1542          Ad             6510    AB2294                 371      Am
2907.5       SB 871          1436          Ad             6560.2  S B 244               1619      Ad18»
2909         SB 1402         1209          Am             6715    AB2294                 371      Am
2982         SB 129             53         Am             6726    S B 1373              1204      Ad
2995         SB 871          1436          Ad             6726.1  SB 1373               1204      Ad
2995.2       SB 871          1436          Ad             6726.2  SB 1373               1204      Ad
2995.4       SB 871          1436          Ad             6726.3  S B 1373              1204      Ad
2995.6       SB 871          1436          Ad             6726.4  S B 1373              1204      Ad
2995.8       S B 871         1436          Ad             6737.4  AB1160                 861      Am
 * Effective immediately.
 18
 17
    Effective until December 31, 1971.
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting      provisions.
187
    Certain licensed cosmetologists and cosmetology establishments to apply for barber certificate before the
201
       expiration  of 90  days  from   effective date of this act.
    On and after January 1, 19T2 persons licensed to practice dentistry shall make certain certifications to
202
       board  re  operation  of   radiographic   equipment.
    Board shall report its findings, etc., relating to applicants for practice of nursing to Legislature not later
       than fifth legislative day of 1971 and 1973 Regular Session.
296                      SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

              BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE—Continued
                 Bill      Chapter                •                      Bill      Chapter
Section          No.        No.          Effect         Section          No.        No.          Effect

6767.5  AB    49             181      Am*               7555.5   S B 129              53     Am
        AB 1491             1080      Am* 193           7555.6   SB 129               53     Am
6768    SB 933               397      R                 7555.7   SB 129               53     Am
6799    AB 57                372      Am               Div. 3,
6864    AB2294               371      Am               Ch. 11,
6896    AB2008               930      Am               Art. 7
6897    AB2008               930      Am               (heading) SB 1219           1183      Am
6904    AB2008               930      R & Ad, S         7643     AB 890             284      Am
6904.1  AB2008               930      R&Ad, S           7666     AB 890             284       Am
6904.2  AB2008               930      Ad, S             8005     SB 580             673      Am
6904.3  AB2008               930      Ad, S             8020     SB 575             667      Am
6904.4  AB2008               930      Ad, S             8531     AB 2294            371      Am
6904.6  AB2008               930      Ad, S             8531.5   AB 2294            371      Am
7019    SB 1189             1176      Ad" 6             8729     AB 906             474      Am
7026    A B 1166             761      Am                8805     AB 57              372      Am
7026.2  SB 1226             1583      Ad                9002     AB 314             298      Am
7026.8  SB 1226             1583      Ad                9003     AB 314             298      Am
7026.9  S B 1226            1583      Ad                9013     A B 314            298      Am
7027    AB 1166              761      Ad                9015     AB 314             298      R
7028    SB 1226             1583      Am                9516     SB 917            1039      Am
7028.1  SB 1226             1583      Ad                9531     AB 706             282      Am
7028.2  SB 1226             1583      Ad                9538     SB 718             394      Am
7028.3  SB 1314              698      Am                9580.1   SB 926             691      Am
        SB 1226             1583      Am                9632     AB 2294            371      R
7028.4  SB 1226             1583      Ad                9650     SB 460             983      Am
7045    AB1166               761      Am                9650.3   SB 460             983      Am
7046    AB 1166              761      Am                9652     SB 460             983      Am
7067.5  S B 517              735      Am                9656     SB 460             983      Am
7110    AB 715               820      Am                9656.1   SB 460             983      Ad
7116.2  SB 1226             1583      Ad                9656.2   SB 460             983      Ad
7151    SB 1226             1583      Am                9656.3   SB 460             983      Ad
7151.2  SB 1226             1583      Ad                9656.4   SB 460             983      Ad
7156    SB 1226             1583      Am                9801     AB 589             806      Am
7157    SB 1226             1583      Am                9816     AB 590              99      R
7158    SB 1226             1583      Am                9831     AB 620             308      Am
7159    SB 1226             1583      Ad                9841     AB 620             308      Am
7307    AB 2294              371      Am                9874     SB 129              53      Am
7376.6  AB 1739              551      Am                9902     AB 494            1233      Am
7392.3  AB 1737              569      Ad                9902.5   AB 494            1233      Am
7538.5  S B 385              681      Ad                9902.6   A B 494           1233      Am
7544    SB 1219             1183      R                 9902.7   AB 494            1233      Ad
7544.10 S B 1219            1183      R                 9912.5   AB 370             560      Ad
7544.11 S B 1219            1183      R                 9927     A B 494           1233      Am
7544.12 SB 1219             1183      R                 9941     AB 410            1536      Am
7544.13 SB 1219             1183      R                 9942     AB 410            1536      Am
7544.14 SB 1219             1183      R                          AB 737            1595      Am
7544.15 SB 1219             1183      R                 9946     AB 410            1536      Am
7544.16 SB 1219             1183      R                 9949     AB 410            1536      Am
7544.17 SB 1219             1183      R                 9950     A B 494           1233      Am
7544.18 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965     AB 411            1531      Ad
7544.19 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965.1   AB 411            1531      Ad
7544.20 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965.2   A B 411           1531      Ad
7544.21 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965.3   AB 411            1531      Ad
7544.22 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965.4   AB 411            1531      Ad
7544.23 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965.5   AB 411            1531      Ad
7544.24 S B 1219            1183      R                 9965.6   A B 411           1531      Ad
7544.25 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965.7   AB 411            1531      Ad
7544.26 SB 1219             1183      R                 9965.8   A B 411           1531      Ad
7555    SB 129                53      Am                9965.9   AB 411            1531      Ad
7555.1  SB 129                53      Am                9965.10 AB 411             1531      Ad
7555.3  S B 129               53      Am                9976     A B 317            182      Am
7555.4  SB 129                53      Am                9977     A B 494           1233      Am
 * Effective immediately.                                                                             , . ,
166
    On or before December 31, 1969, Contractors' State License Board to prescribe certain form re mechanics'
188   lien laws.
    Board may register certain applicants for industrial engineering if applicant filed application prior to
       January 1, 1969 orflieson or before January 1, 1970,
                           SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                                297

              BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                                        Bill      Chapter
 Section          No.         No.          Effect        Section           No.        No.           Effect

 9984           AB 494          1233      Am                10288        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
 9985           AB 494          1233      Am                10289        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
 9997           AB 369             12     Am*               10290        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
                AB 495           755      Am*               10291        AB2000           928      Ad, S28
                AB 494          1233      Am 1              10292        AB2000           928      Ad, S26 25
10004           AB 387           138      Am, S '            10293       AB2000           928      Ad, S28
10005            AB 387          138      Am, S "           10294        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
10008            SB 717          216      Am                10295        AB2000           928      Ad, S28
10017            SB 717          216      B                 10296        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
10018            SB 717          216      R                 10297        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
10019            SB 717          216      R                 10298        AB2000           928      Ad, S25
10030            SB 717          216      Am                10299        AB2000           928      Ad, S28
10050           AB 387           138      Am,2B S "         10300        AB2000           928      Ad, S
10053           AB 1214          763      Am 17             10301        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
10059           AB 387           138      Am, S             10310        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
10070           AB 387           138      R, S " 17         10311        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
10074 . AB 387                   138      Am, S             10312        AB2000           928      Ad, S 2826
10083           AB 387           138 * Am, S "              10320        AB2000           928      Ad, S28
10130           AB 387           138      Am, S25"          10321        AB2000           928      Ad, S
                                                                                                           28
10131.3         AB2000           928      Ad, S 25          10322        AB2000           928      Ad, S28
10132           AB2000           928      Am, S             10330        AB2000           928      Ad, S28
10140.6          SB 279          189      Am                10331        AB2000           928      Ad, S 28
10150           AB 418             98     Am 17             10332        AB2000           928      Ad, S
10150.6         AB 387           138      Am, S             10340        AB20O0           928      Ad, S 28
10160            SB 279          189      Am 18 1M          10460        AB     418        98      Am
10161.7          SB 1001       1050       Am '              10470        SB 287           729      Am
10164            SB 279          189      R                 10471        S B   287        729      Am
                 SB 129                                     10473.1      SB 287          729       Ad
10165                             53      Am                10500        AB 5 8 7         138      Am, S "
10201            SB 1001       1050       Am1818
                                                            10515        A B 418           98
10209.5          SB 1001       1050       Am                10587        A B    387       138      Am, S "
10210            SB 1001       1050       Am1818
                                                            10593.6      AB 387           138      Am, S "
10214.5          SB 1001       1050       Am18              10597        AB 387           138      Am, S "
10215            SB 1001       1050       AmM               10602        AB 418            98      Am28
10216            SB 1001       1050       Ad                11000.5      AB   1214        763      Ad 28
10216.5          SB 1001       1050       Ad18              11000.6      A B 1214         763      Ad
10221            SB 1001       1050       Am18              11010        AB 413          482       Am28
10225           AB 387           138      Am, S1"           11011.1      AB 387           138      S"
10239.22 AB 387                  138       Am, S '          11011.6      AB 387           138      Am, S "
10239.34 AB 387                  138      Am, S28"          11012        A B 387          138      Am, S1 "
10250           AB2000           928      Ad, S 28          11015        AB 387           138      Am, S *
10251           AB2000           928      Ad, S25           11018.2      AB      63       373      Am25
10260           AB2000           928      Ad, S26           11018.3      AB 1214          763      Am28 88
10261           AB 2000          928      Ad, S 28          11018.6      AB 1214          763      Ad '
10262            AB2000          928       Ad, S28          11018.7      SB 298           121      Am28 OT
10270            AB2000          928       Ad, S28          11018.9      A B 1214         763      Ad 28' 87
10271           AB2000           928      Ad, S 28          11024        A B 1214         763      Ad '
10280            AB2000          928      Ad, S28           11526.5      A B 1708         723      Ad 26
10281           AB2000           928      Ad, S 28          11551.6      AB 413           482      Ad
10282            AB2000          928       Ad, S25          12024.1      S B 296          731      Ad
10283            AB2000          928      Ad, S28           12024.5      A B 796          411      Am
10284            AB2000          928       Ad, S            12025.5      A B 2174       1309       Am
10285           AB2000           928      Ad, S26 28
                                                            12510        A B 1 2 9 4      386      Am
10286           AB2000           928      Ad, S25           12601 .      AB 2174        1309       R&Ad
10287           AB2000           928      Ad, S             12602        A B 2174       1309       R&Ad
   * Effective immediately.
  17
  18
     See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  28
     Operative on July 1, 1970.
  26
     Operative on January 2, 1970.
  86
     Operative  on January 1, 1970.
  87
     Not applicable to subdivisions on whichfinalpublic reports were issued prior to operative date of act.
     Not applicable to conveyances of or contracts for the purchase and sale of lots, which conveyances are made
 1M
         or which contracts are executed prior to effective date of act.
     Examination requirement on and after July 1, 1980, for renewal or reinstatement of certain inactive license
        of real estate broker or salesman.
                   >—1
       t31^              '—' tii—t •-"• ,—* •-* *—* >—»)—* I—' I—* t—* I—• 1—«• I—11—t H-* I—11—11—iH-k •—' H-' I—' i—' I—' I—' •—*>—» I—' I—' I—' (—»I—»
        ^ T -^L-t <*^ P^i rr\ &."• _>1 _~*    i _ i _-1 #>r* ^*K s^* tm* ^** tk4\h*k
      I "5 W P » ^ - ^ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 O t O I » 3 l - > M
                                                                               o t o tho**t tto*it ho•»t o
                                                                                                         h **t o
                                                                                                               h«it o  t oh t#*oh t**oht* o
                                                                                                                    L «*                  i h t* iohti oht*ot^t*ot.t **o ht «oktnoh t>oi kt ho h t         to
        • t^, tOtOCJIH^ t O O O - l C O o i o ©                                                                                                                                                            CO
        cp-Jtooo-ji-iioKotoi-'ooo



             2CfiM>>0B[>[>>-3!|>0a5OCO!i0>a!>-ao>-t>>>-[>t>->>>->->,t>'>-t>>->-(>>'                                                                                                                  0»
             KWtdwtatdwtdWMwaWWtttdtdtdtStdWWtdM«WtStdtdWWWtdtdtdW
5      £°
        K^!ft            MW
                                                            totototototoiototototototototototo
                              KWeO®l-'!HCOWW03»fcB©lOMI-'l-i|->P--'H'l--'>-*l-'l-'t-'MI-»l-»l-'H'M
                                                                                                                                                                                                     c
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (A
00           u l
                   a»G00J^O^(^©t000©O©©4*-Jl-»-^*.^rf^rt^^*.>i^^^^^*.>t».*'*.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     zm
^ ^          j% ^ " * ^ ^                                        1    ^    ^                                 k^ ^ ^   ^ ^   ^ ^   ^-4 ^ ^ LJ   I ,,t ^J ^J l^J ^J ^ J I I LJ ^ ^           L^
                                                                                                                                                                                                     u>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (A
                                                                                                                                                                                                          SQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                          H
•P
"*
               iK^2coto„ioio»StosD9Pra2^„ro„cococowcoc*o.scococoo3cocowos030o
                a S S S S S g O M ^ M O S g f f i O Q S O l O E O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o•3
«^             ^*lN21-*OlQoCOcooo-l^^C©O£©O^©lo©COCOCPOC©SO£OS©C0COSD£PCDOt^CC>CO                                                                                                                    >
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Z    o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     D    50
50        ^••••!>>->>>>!>M>'50k>>>-WWW#WWW#SSd!?JWW»SdSdW
                   B3BBBBBBBB»                                                 °- B 3 3 B ^                                 &>&.«» &>&•&>&» g=». &                                           g=           >
                                                                                                                            f > • > P> P*" &*• £> ^
                                                                                                                            & Oi O J P I 0* OJ CU
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                                                                                                                                                                                                     •n
                                                                                                                                                                                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                          aH
                                                                                                                                                                                                     m
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (A   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                     VI   a
                                                  t o t o t o t o t o t o t o t o t o t o t o to t o t o ^ - o t-l >^"^ i ^ t o t o t o t o t o                                       to
OS CH CH Ot C71 00
                                                                                      CO CO CO 03 COrc "=• si CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO
                                                  © © • © >£bh£i£i kt^COCO 00 CO 00 00 - J O . <                       rf^cOCOCOCOCOCO
                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                     CO
                                                                                                                                                                                                     O
© t o coco to so                                  —»—I —i o o o o s o » t o t o o o - ^ a C VCON>»-                © © C O1C O S5O O l t O t O
                                                                                                                           !CO t^00tOI-'
                                                                                                                                                                                      to
                                                                                                                                                                                       O             Z
                                                              -T h^ £ . & 05 Ol
                                                      MO» >0ocncnto*- S H H o e s                                                   to        ^                                                      v>   VO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o\
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o    ^0
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o
                                                                 0OuCCC!/!>t>tb.>.t>t>tB.l3                                          50 GO 50 50 50 > . 50 > . 50                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     D
WWWWWW                           td               Wtdtd W W W t t t d t d t d B W W W ( , ,                                          WtdWtdtdaWtdtd
                                                                                                                                                                                                     m    s-
00CO©C0©-l
MOODO-HO
                                 OI
                                 00
                                                  tor-'-awpioioi*.rf**.^oooo*.
                                                  Cnrf^CoMCOOJCO^l-ltO-JOQto                                                         §
                                                                                                                                         oicrcotcn-qm^co
                                                                                                                                     _-COCOCOCOcoCO-}tO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          n)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ^3
-}CoC5>£—ICH                     oo               tOO5O0l-"35O5O5*.h(H-i^CDSP|_i                                                     OiOSCiCSOSCoOi^CO                                               o    g
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                          02

                                                                                                                                     H-t I- 1 h- 1 1- 1 1- 1 M I- 1 M M                M
OCnfOt-JCO
^^-aiovjao                                        to5i-5«otototoos05-]g500-5
                                                                                                                                     H> l-> l-> l-i l-> to H" htk h^
                                                                                                                                     10 t j tO tO t O - 5 tO OS 05
                                                                                                                                                                                        ^
                                                                                                                                                                                       05
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ^
                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                  iji.^-jM^eococosJosoooitotooo                                                      OS CO CO CO C O - ] CO & - 4                       03
                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
f(j >• > •     J&. >• Q GO [> Q 50 >• >- [> t> t> > t> > . J> > b» >• > . 02                                                                                                                         a.
                                                                                                                                     BBBBB^Bo-Bp-gB
                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                 299

                                         CIVIL CODE
                Bill      Chapter                             BUI      Chapter
Section         No.         No.        Effect   Section       No.       No.          Effect
                                           28
   25     S B 252          1608   Am, S          106       S B 252     1608      R, S 28
   25.6   SB 252           1608   Am, S28        107       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   43.7   SB 242            264   Am             108       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   54.1   AB 841             832  Am             111       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   55     SB 252           1608   B , S2288      112       SB 252      1608      R, S28
   56     S B 252          1608   R.S            113       SB 252      1608      R, S28
   56.1   SB 252           1608   R, S28         114       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   57     SB 252           1608   R, S28         115       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   59     S B 252          1608   R, SM28        116       S B 252     1608      R, S 28
   61     SB 252           1608   R,S            117       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   62     SB 252           1608   R, S26         118       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   63     SB 252           1608   R, S28         119       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   68     SB 252           1608   R, S28         120       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   69     SB 252           1608   R, S28         121       S B 252     1608      R, S 28
   69a    SB 252           1608   R, S28         122       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   69b    SB 252           1608   R, S28         123       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   69.5   SB 252           1608   R, S26         124       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   70     S B 252          1608   R, S28         125       S B 252     1608      R, S38
   71     SB 252           1608   R, S28         126       SB 252      1608      R, S28
   72     SB 252           1608   R, S28         127       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   73     SB 252           1608   R, S26         128       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   74     SB 252           1608   R, S2288       128.1     S B 252     1608      R, S28
   76     SB 252           1608   R . S 28       129       SB 252      1608      R, S28 28
   77     SB 252           1608   R, S           130       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   78     SB 252           1608   R, S28         131       S B 252     1608      R, S28
   79     SB 252           1608   R, S28         131.5     S B 252     1608      R, S
   79.1   SB 252           1608   R, S28         132       A B 1015      489     Am
   79a    SB 252           1608   R, S28                   S B 252     1608      R, S28
   79.01 SB 252            1608   R, S28          133      SB" 252     1608      R, S28
    79.02 SB 252           1608   R, S28          134      SB 252       1608     R, S28
   79.03 SB 252            1608   R . S 22 88     136      S B 252     1608      R, S28
   79.03a SB 252           1608   R . S 28        137       SB 252      1608     R, S 28
    79.04 SB 252            1608   R, S           137.1    SB 252      1608      R, S 29
   79.05 SB 252            1608   R, S2288        137.2    S B 252      1608     R, S2288
   79.06 SB 252            1608   R . S 28        137.3     SB 252      1608     R . S 28
    79.07 SB 252            1608  R, S28          137.5     SB 252      1608     R, S
    79.08 SB 252            1608  R, S            137.6     S B 252    1608      R, S28
    79.09 SB 252            1608  R, S28          138       S B 252     1608     R, S28
    80     S B 252          1608   R, S28         139       S B 252     1608      R, S 28
    82     SB 252           1608   R, S2288       139.1     S B 252     1608     R, S2286
    83     S B 252          1608   R.S            139.5     SB 252      1608     R.S
    84     SB 252           1608   R, S28         139.7     SB 252      1608     R, S28
    85     SB 252           1608   R, S28         139.8     S B 252     1608      R, S28
           A B 1921         1615   Am 28          140       SB 252      1608      R, S28
    86     SB 252           1608   R, S28         140.5     SB 252      1608      R, S28
    87     S B 252          1608   R, S 28        140.7     S B 252     1608      R, S28
    88     SB 252           1608   R, S 28        141       S B 252     1608      R, S28
    89     SB 252           1608   R, S           142       S B 252     1608      R, S28
    90     SB 252           1608   R, S*          143       S B 252     1608      R, S28
    91     SB 252           1608   R, S28         144       S B 252     1608      R, S28
    92     SB 252           1608   R, S28         145       S B 252     1608      R, S 28
    93     S B 252          1608   R, S28         146       SB 252      1608      R, S28
    94     SB 252           1608   R, S28         147       SB 252      1608      R, S28
    95     SB 252           1608   R, S28         148       S B 252     1608      R, S28 28

    96     SB 252           1608   R, S28         149       S B 252     1608      R,28 S
    97     S B 252          1608   R, S28                   A B 530     1609      R 18
    98     SB 252           1608   R, S28                    S B 900     1611     Am
    99     SB 252           1608   R, S28          150      SB 252       1608     R, S28
   100     SB 252           1608   R, S28          150.1    S B 252      1608     R, S26
   101     SB 252           1608   R, S28          150.2     SB 252      1608     R, S2288
   102     SB 252           1608   R, S28          150.3    S B 252      1608     R . S 28
   103     SB 252            1608  R, S28          150.4     SB 252      1608     R, S 28
   104     SB 252           1608   R, S2288        155       SB 252      1608     R, S
   105     SB 252           1608   R.S             156       SB 252      1608     R.S28
 18
 28
    Operatiie on July 1, 1970.
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
300                      SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                                 CIVIL CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                                       Bill     Chapter
Section           No.        No.         Effect         Section          No.       No.           Effect
                                           28
  157         S B 252        1608      R, S                 860       SB       99       113     Am
  158         SB 252         1608      R, S28 28
                                                           1060       SB       98       155     R18
  159         S B 252        1608      R, S29              1161      AB1388           1074      Am
  160         S B 252        1608      R, S 28             1260       AB 2302          1099     Am
  161         S B 252        1608      R, S29              1261.1     AB2302          1099      Ad
  161a        SB 252         1608      R, S                1263       AB 992            564     Am
  161b        S B 252        1608      R, S28              1267       AB     992        564     Am
  162         SB 252         1608      R, S26 28
                                                                      A B  2 3 0 2     1099     Am
  163         SB 252         1608       R, S28             1301       AB 992            564     Am
  163.5       S B 252        1608      R, S28              1380.1     S B 98            155     Ad18
  164         SB 252         1608      R, S                1380.2     SB       98       155     Ad18
  164.5       SB 252         1608      R, S28 28
                                                           1381.1     SB 98             155     Ad18
  164.6       SB 252         1608      R, S28              1381.2     S B 98            155     Ad18
  164.7       S B 252        1608       R, S               1381.3     SB       98       155     Ad18
  164.8       SB 1309          647      Ad 2 8             1381.4     SB 98             155     Ad18
              AB 530         1609       Ad.R               1382.1     SB       98       155     Ad18
   165        SB 252         1608      R, S28              1384.1     SB       98       155     Ad18
   166        S B 252        1608       R, S2929
                                                           1385.1     SB       98       155     Ad18 M

   167        S B 252        1608       R, S28             1385.2     SB 98             155     Ad18
   168        S B 252        1608       R, S28             1385.3     SB       98       155     Ad
   169        SB 252         1608       R, S28             1385.4     SB       98       155     Ad18
   169.1      S B 252        1608      R, S 28             1385.5     SB       98       155     Ad18
   169.2      SB 252         1608       R, S28             1386.1     SB 98             155     Ad18
   169.3      SB 252         1608       R, S28             1386.2     SB       98       155     Ad18
   170        SB 252         1608       R, S 28            1386.3     SB       98       155     Ad18
   171         S B 252       1608       R, S28             1387.1     SB       98       155     Ad18
   171a       S B 252        1608       R, S 28            1387.2     SB       98       155      Ad18
   171b        S B 252       1608       R, S28             1387.3     SB 98             155      Ad18
   171c       S B 252        1608      R, S                1388.1     SB 98             155      Ad18
  172         S B 1309         647      Am 26              1388.2     S B 98            155     Ad18
               S B 252       1608       R, S 28                       SB 788            468     Am (as ad
              A B 530         1609      Am, R                                                    by Stats.
   172a        SB 1309         647      Am 28                                                    1969,18Ch.
               S B 252       1608       R, S 29                                                  155 )
              A B 530         1609      Am, R              1389.1     SB       98       155      Ad18
   172b        S B 252       1608       R, S29 28
                                                           1389.2     SB 98             155      Ad18
   173         S B 252       1608       R, S29             1389.3     SB       98       155      Ad18
   174         S B 252       1608       R, S28             1389.4     SB       98       155      Ad1818
   175         S B 252       1608       R, S29             1390.1     SB       98       155      Ad18
   176         S B 252       1608       R, S28             1390.2     SB 98             155      Ad18
   177         SB 252        1608       R, S28             1390.3     SB 98             155     Ad u
   178         SB 252        1608       R, S26             1390.4     SB 98             155     A d18
   179         SB 252        1608       R, S28             1391.1     SB 98             155     Ad M
   180         S B 252       1608       R, S 28            1391.2     S B 98            155      Ad18
   181         SB 252        1608       R, S               1392.1     SB       98       155      Ad
   182         SB 288          120      Am 29              1468       AB 1451            245     Am
               SB 252        1608       R, S 28            1584.5     SB 323            265      Ad
              A B 530         1609      Am, R                         AB 77             400      Ad
   195         S B 252       1608       Ad, S2926          1584.6     A B 77            400      Ad68
   196a        S B 252       1608       Am, S              1718       AB 1763           904      Ad
   196b       A B 1921       1615       R                  1719       AB1764            905      Ad (by
   199        S B 252        1608       R, S28                                                   Sec. 2
   206.7       SB 203           59      Am 28               ^                                    of Ch.)
   214         S B 252       1608       R, S               1725       SB 285            583     Ad
   216        AB 1921         1615      Ad 18              1726       SB 285            583     Ad
   224         SB 900        1611       Am                 1727       SB 285            583      Ad
   226.10 A B 866             1251      Ad                 1728       SB 285            583     Ad
   230.5      AB 714           485      Ad 18              1729       SB 285            583     Ad
   235         S B 900       1611       Am                 1730       S B 285           583     Ad
   237.5      A B 1015         489      Am                 1731       SB 285            583     Ad
   783         S B 776         275      Am                 1732       SB 285            583     Ad
   789.5       SB 874        1500       Ad                 1733       SB 285            583     Ad
 18
 26
    Operative on July 1, 1970.
 88
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
    Applicable only to credit cards originally issued or renewed on or after effective date of section.
^^ h^ ^^ h^ l—* UJ ^^ >—* ^J h*1 ^^ h^ t~* ^^ h^ ^^ H"* ^^ h^ t * h^ ^^ N^                          H* ^^                        M         M     H1    K H M M K M M H M                  K K K H H P M H K K K
oo oo oo oo oo oo4oo oo oo oo1G O oo oo 1co oc 1oo co co co co oo oo G O
h-i W I - * M M l- I-» H* M H M M H M H I - * h-i W M M M H* H*
                                                                         oo                         o o oo
                                                                                                      H»     M            2      oo
                                                                                                                                 t!
                                                                                                                                           oo
                                                                                                                                           t !
                                                                                                                                                 co
                                                                                                                                                 tl
                                                                                                                                                       oo oo oo oo oo go oo oo oo
                                                                                                                                                       t I C S o Q O p o o
                                                                                                                                                                                        oo oo oo co oooooooo - 4 - J - J
                                                                                                                                                                                         © © © © © © © © c o c o e o
tOWIOlOIOtOtOtOtOtOMtOtONtOtOtO.tOIOtOlNS©©                                                           © ©  © ©                   ©         ©     ©     ©©GOGopO.-OCSCOCO                co t o t O l O 1 0 t O t O M 05 5 < S
'050505'05mO50505©b<CneiWCT"CabtWCTOli-'                                                    M M 50 00 - J  05                    en       ft»    co    toMcotoMCoto-^co                 toMMMcobobsft».
5o-}05C>ik.cotoi-'©©Go~i©oi>f»cotoM©©                                                   M      ©                                                                                           -1HO
f> £> £>• [>. J> J> f^ f> f> f> f> J> £> [>• J> {> £> £> f> 02 02 [> J>                              ^- J>                       •>       •>     {». > • > • > • h» >•>• >• 02 | > >• > > • > • > • > • > . 50 t>50 02 OB
WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWww                                                                              td tdW W                    w w w                 wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
totototototototototoiototototototototo                ^ P H                                                        M             M M » - » K M K M H M M H H M     H H K H K H i ;
totobOtoto^toboto^tototototototototo£*©aooo                                                                        oo
CO0303CO0003O303COCOCOCOCO03C003CO03COO5CSI-i|-i                                                                  M              00 00 00 000000GO000000 tO GO00 M00GO000000 £01-1 tOtO t o
50 © © CO CO 50 50 50 50 © CO CO CO 5? 50 CO CO CO 50 Go CO - ^ —J                                        -^1 - 1 - 3           M     M   M             H H H p K M K - i M K * H M H P H C 0 0 ^ 5 0 *
                                                                                                                                - * - * - «             -q-a-i-i-a-a-j^-q-^co-j-a-J-a-iOOHitJtww

I—' I—»-1—' 1—^ 1—»• 1—t I—«• I—»• I — 1 1 — ' I—^»—^ I—»• I—»- i-^»^ I—»• I—^ 1—11—'   _                                                                                                                       I-»
CTCnCTWCTCTCHCHCTCTCTCTOlOICnCHOnCJIOlMOSOSC»                                                        05      05 05 ©            05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 ©CO 05 05                       © © 05 © 0 5 M Ol Ol Ol OX
-a-5-»-a-a-}-J-)-J-l-l-J-q-J-4-J-]-q-]G0 05toto                                                       to to jo Ks So to to to to to to to to to oi to to © to to to to to © e n 00 00 GO
MMMMMMMMMMMMMHiMI-iMMHiWCOCJlCn                                                                      CS     W      CS CS        W         W      PI    CH CH W « CH <Sl O l CO CH Ol M Ot C I O l W <S\ tOrf-W CO CO


> - ^ > > » - > > ^ ^ > » ^ > . ^ ^ ( > ^ ^ ^ p » ^ ^ > ^ j > » > > . > . > . > > - ^ > ^ ^ > ^ ^ S ^ ^ y ^ ^ ^ > > . > - > p . ^ p » p » > . > p »                                                              J>S>Js»>-|>
o - o . p . G . & o , & a . O i S L & & & & c . a & e - & g & g g & g & g & g a,g & g a-g W g o W o ^ g B B 3 B B B B B & B 3 B B                                                                                 B » B , 0 , f t

                                                                                            a»8=ca»f5a»j5a»j5a»9»>^a»3t>»3^t>                                                                                         »


CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO tO tO tO tO tO tO tO tO tO                                 tO tO tO tO tO tO tO tO tOJ M   M I-»
                                                                                                                               H MH» M
                                                                                                                                     H"       M M M MM MMM MM MM MM MM M MM             MMH  H »i         MM. K, M „p^ H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       . r r^_ S,
©©©©©©©©©©©5050CO50CO5O5O5O5O                                                               5 0 5 0 >t» tO tO t 0 © © © 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0       000000 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00            000000            00000o5c           5
00 00 00 GO 00 00 GO 0 0 - ^ 0 5 © 00 CO 00 CO 00 GO 00 CO 00                               0 0 O I © 0 0 © © 0 0 0 0 0 0 kt>.©COCO           H M P P K H M M H H H                     l-> M M           M M M p (T*.-
© 00 -105 OI *• CO tO CO CO-© Ol 01OICH OI Ol CJI *• *-                                     tOtO©COI-»C«©©©©CO(l^*.                           tototo      to to to to to to to to       tototo            to to to Q,,^." CO
                                                 50 50 50 CO 00-<105ft»tO                          'tO           0005*.         05OI          505050      5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 00 00 00 00   000000  boGoboS'vI                   "
                                                 COtOM                                                                                        ©©00        -1©tOH>C000-l©                W ^ C O tv0h-»O[R W



ttwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwawwwwwwwwwwtdtt&jw&jwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwaw
                           M MMMMMMM             M                M H K M     MMIO        tOtOtO     tO tO tO tO tO tO tO tO tO tO ro tOtOtO
cococococoeococoi-ii-'Cocococococococo-ait'to*.          Mwra^MMi-i-j-aaCfcoatototowtotototototototoostototoatototo
MMh^M(^MI^I^^^I^©©©©©©©CnCO^^^©O0COCnCOC0C0©G0tOt3CO00COCOCOGOC0COCOC0C^
© © © © © © © © O I C H © © © © © © © © w l © C O © © t O t O © © © © © M ^ ^ * . © l - * © © © H l © © © © © © © © h - 1 © © © H i © © ©


                                                                                                                                                                                                    |_l      M M H "
co co co co
© © © ©
to to to to



<
    s!s!s!:lllisis!|BBBge'0'0'a'e'0'B^BBBBgBBBBBBBBp0'0'                                                                                    p             B BBBBBBBBBBgBBBB
KMMSOCCGOaOSO                              ^ j
302                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                                      CIVIL CODE—Continued
                     Bill      Chapter                                     Bill    Chapter
Section              No.        No.           Effect        Section        No.      No.          Effect

3090            SB    316       1362       Ad38, S148       3158      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
3091            SB    316       1362       Ad28 , S148      3159      SB 316       1362      Ad28 , S148
3092            SB    316       1362       Ad28 , S14e      3160      SB 316       1362      Ad28 , S148
3093            SB    316       1362       Ad28 , S148      3161      SB 316       1362      Ad28 , S148
3094            SB    316       1362       Ad28
                                             28
                                                , S4W
                                                   146
                                                            3162      SB 316       1362      Ad28 , S148
3095            SB    316       1362       Ad28, S148       3163      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S1488
                                                                                               28

3096            SB    316       1362       Ad28, S146       3166      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S"148      '
3097            SB    316       1362       Ad , S           3167      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S 8
                SB    730       1364       Am (as ad        3168      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S"
                                           by Stats.        3171      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
                                           1969, Oh.        3172      SB 316       1362      Ad 28, S148
                                           1362 ) 28        3173      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
                SB 1186         1468       Am (by           3174      SB 316       1362      Ad , S148
                                           Sec. 4 of        3175      SB 316       1362      Ad28  , S148
                                           Ch.) ( a s       3179      SB 316       1362      Ad28  ,  S148
                                           ad by            3181      SB 316       1362      Ad28  ,  S148

                                           Stats.           3183      SB 316       1362      Ad28
                                                                                                28
                                                                                                   , S148
                                                                                                        148
                                           1969, 28Oh.      3184      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
                                           1362
                                             28
                                                  ) 148     3185      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S146
 3098           SB     316      1362       Ad2S , S148      3186      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
 3099           SB     316      1362       Ad     S         3187      SB 316       1362      Ad , S148
 3100           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 g l M     3190      SB 316       1362      Ad28  , S148
 3101           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 146     3191      SB 316       1362      Ad28  , S148
 3102           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 146     3192      SB 316       1362      Ad28  ,S
 3103           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 g 146     3193      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
                                                                                                28
                                                                                                        148
 3104           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3196      SB 316       1362      Ad , S148
 3105           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl40      3197      SB 316       1362      Ad28  ,  S
 3106           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3198      SB 316       1362      Ad28       148
                                                                                                   , S146
 3109           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3199      SB 316       1362      Ad28
                                                                                                28
                                                                                                   , S1
 3110           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S1*8      3200      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148»
 3111           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl46      3201      SB 316        1362     Ad28, S148
 3112           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3202      SB 316        1362     Ad , S148
 3114           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl46      3203      SB 316        1362     Ad28  ,S
 3115           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3204      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
 3116           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3205      SB 316       1362      Ad28  ,  S148
 3117           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S i «     3210      SB 316       1362      Ad2829
                                                                                                    , S148
                                                                                                        148
 3118           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 1 4 8    3211     SB 316       1362      Ad , S148
 3123           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl46       3212     SB 316       1362      Ad28  ,  S
 3124           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148      3213     SB 316        1362     Ad28, S148 148

 3128           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 glffl     3214      SB 316        1362     Ad28  ,  S
 3129           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3225      SB 316        1362     Ad28
                                                                                                28
                                                                                                   , S148
 3130           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 g"6       3226      SB 316        1362     Ad28  , S148
                                                                                                        148
 3131           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl40      3227      SB 316        1362     Ad28, S148
 3134           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3228      SB 316       1362      Ad28 , S148
 3135           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl46      3235      SB 316       1362      Ad28, S148
 3136           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3236      SB 316       1362      Ad , S 8
 3137           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3239      S B 316      1362      Ad28
                                                                                                28
                                                                                                   , S"
 3138           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3240      SB 316       1362      Ad28  , S148
                                                                                                        148
 3139           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148     3241      SB 316       1362      Ad , S
 3140           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148               SB 900       1611      Am (as ad
 3143           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148                                      by Stats.
 3144           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl46                                       1969, Ch.
 3145           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148                                      1362)»
                                                                                                28
 3146           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148      3247     SB     316    1362     Ad28  , S148
 3147           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148      3248     SB     316    1362     Ad28, S148
 3148           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148      3249     SB     316    1362     Ad29, S148
 3149           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl40       3250     SB     316    1362     Ad28, S148
                                                                                                      148
 3150           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148      3251     SB     316    1362     Ad 28, S148
 3151           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148      3252     SB     316    1362     Ad28 , S148
 3152           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl46       3258     SB     316    1362     Ad , S148
 3153           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 gl46       3259     SB     316    1362     Ad28 ,S
 3156           SB     316      1362       Ad 2 8 S 148      3260     SB     316    1362     Ad28, S143
 28 Operative January 1, 1971.
146
      See Sec. 12 of Ch. te conflicting provisions.
                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                    303

                                    CIVIL CODE—Continued
                 Bill      Chapter                                  Bill    Chapter
Section          No.         No.          Effect     Section        No.      No.         Effect

3261        S B 316         1362      Ad28, S148     4454      SB 252       1608      Ad, S28
3262        SB 316          1362      Ad28, S148               A B 530      1609      Am (as
3263        SB 316          1362      Ad28, S148
                                               14a
                                                                                      enacted
3264        S B 316         1362      Ad28 , S                                        by Stats.
3265        S B 316         1362      Ad28
                                        28
                                           , S146
                                               148
                                                                                      1969, Ch.
3266        SB 316          1362      Ad , S                                                )2°
                                                                                      1608 28
3386        SB 104            156     Am             4455      SB    252    1608      Ad, S38
3434        S B 1301        1584      Ad 28          4456      SB    252    1608      Ad, S 28
4000        SB 252          1608      Ad, S26        4457      SB    252    1608      Ad, S 88
4001        S B 252         1608      Ad, S          4500      SB    252    1608      Ad, S
4100        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28
                                            28
                                                               AB    530    1609      Am ( a s
4101        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                         enacted
4102        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                         by Stats.
4103        SB 252          1608      Ad, S 28                                        1969, Ch.
4104        SB 252          1608      Ad, S26                                               )w
                                                                                      1608 28
4200        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28        4501      S B 252      1608      Ad, S28
4201        SB 252          1608      Ad, S 28       4502      S B 252      1608      Ad, S
4202        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28                  A B 530      1609      Am (as
4203        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                         enacted
4204        SB 252          1608      Ad, S                                           by Stats.
4205        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                         1969, 2Ch.
4206        S B 252         1608      Ad, S26                                         1608 ) 8
4207        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28        4503      S B 252       1608     Ad, S 28
4208        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28                  A B 530       1609     Am (as
4209        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                         enacted
4210        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                         by Stats.
4211        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28                                         1969, 28Ch.
4212        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28                                          1608 J28
4213        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28        4504      S B 252       1608     Ad, S28
4214        SB 252          1608      Ad, S26        4505      SB 252        1608     Ad, S
4215        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                  A B 530       1609     Am (as
4300        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28
                                            26
                                                                                      enacted
4301        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28                                         by Stats.
4302        SB 252          1608      Ad, S 28                                        1969, 28Ch.
4303        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                          1608 )26
4304        SB 252          1608      Ad, S26        4506      SB     252    1608     Ad, S 28
4305        SB 252          1608      Ad, S          4507      SB     252    1608     Ad, S
4306        S B 252         1608      Ad, S2828
                                                     4508      SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
4307        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28        4509      SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
4308        SB 252          1608      Ad, S26                  AB     530    1609      Am (as
4309        SB 252          1608      Ad, S28                                          enacted
4400        SB 252          1608      Ad, S26                                          by Stats.
4401        S B 252         1608      Ad, S 28                                         1969, 2Ch.
4425        S B 252         1608      Ad, S                                            1608 ) 8
            A B 530          1609     Am (as         4510      S B 252       1608     Ad, S2288
                                       enacted       4511      S B 252       1608      Ad.S
                                      by Stats.                A B 530       1609      Am (as
                                       1969, Ch.                                       enacted
                                       1608)»                                          by Stats.
 4426        SB    252      1608      Ad,28S28                                         1969, Ch.
 4429        AB    530      1609       Ad                                              1608)"
 4450        SB    252      1608      Ad, S28         4512     SB     252    1608      Ad, S28
             AB    530      1609       Am (as         4513     SB     252    1608      Ad, S28
                                       enacted        4514     SB     252    1608      Ad, S28
                                       by Stats.               AB     530    1609      Am (as
                                       1969, 28Ch.                                     enacted
                                       1608 J28                                        by Stats.
 4451        S B 252         1608      Ad, S28                                         1969, 2Ch.
 4452        SB 252          1608      Ad, S                                           1608) 8
 4453        S B 252         1608     Ad, S28         4515     S B 252       1608      Ad, S 28
 28
 28
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
  e
    Operative January 1, 1971.
" See Sec. 12 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
304                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                                      CIVIL CODE—Continued
                    Bill     Chapter                                 Bill    Chapter
Section             No.        No.         Effect     Section        No.      No.        Effect

4516           S B 252       1608       Ad, S26       5004      SB    252     1608     Ad, S28
4517           S B 252       1608       Ad, S28       5100      SB    252     1608     Ad, S26
               A B 530       1609       Am (as        5101      SB    252     1608     Ad, S28
                                        enacted       5102      SB    252     1608     Ad, S28
                                        by Stats.               AB    530     1609     Am (as
                                        1969, Ch.                                      enacted
                                        1608)28*>                                      by Stats.
4518           S B 252        1608      Ad, S26                                        1969, 28
                                                                                              Ch.
4519           S B 252        1608      Ad, S                                          1608 J28
               A B 530        1609      Am (as        5103      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
                                        enacted       5104      SB    252      1608    Ad, S 23
                                        by Stats.     5105      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
                                        1969, 28
                                               Ch.    5106      SB    252      1608    Ad, S 28
                                        1608)28       5107      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
 4520          SB     252     1608      Ad, S26       5108      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
 4521          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28       5109      SB    252    x
                                                                               1608    Ad, S28
 4525          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28       5110      SB    252      1608    Ad, S 28
 4526          SB     252     1608      Ad, S         5111      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
               AB     530     1609      Am (as        5112      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
                                        enacted       5113      SB    252      1608    Ad,28S
                                        by Stats.     5113.5    AB    530      1609    Ad
                                        1969, Ch.     5114      SB    252      1608    Ad, S26
                                        1608)™        5115      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
 4530          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28       5116      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
 4531          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28
                                              28
                                                      5117      SB    252      1608    Ad, S2828
 4540          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28       5118      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
 4600          SB     252     1608      Ad, S 28      5119      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
 4601          SB     252     1608      Ad, S 26      5120      SB    252      1608    Ad, S 28
 4602          SB     252     1608      Ad, S         5121      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
               AB     530     1609      Am (as        5122      SB    252      1608    Ad, S 28
                                        enacted       5123      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
                                        by Stats.     5124      SB    252      1608    Ad, S28
                                        1969, Ch.     5125      SB    252      1608    Ad, S
                                         1608)»                 AB    530      1609     Am (as
 4603          SB     252     1608      Ad, S26
                                              28
                                                                                        enacted
 4700          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28                                         by Stats.
 4701          SB     252     1608      Ad, S                                           1969, Ch.
               AB     530     1609      Am (as                                          1608 J28
                                         enacted       5126     SB 252        1608     Ad, S28
                                         by Stats.     5127     SB 252        1608     Ad, S28
                                         1969, 28
                                                Ch.             AB 530        1609      Am (as
                                         1608)29                                        enacted
 4702          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28                                         by Stats.
 4703          SB     252     1608      Ad, S 26                                        1969, Ch.
 4800          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28                                         1608 J28
 4801          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28        5128     SB     252    1608     Ad, S2828
 4802          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28        5129     SB     252    1608      Ad, S26
 4803          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28        5130     SB     252    1608      Ad, S28
 4804          SB     252     1608      Ad, S          5131     SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
 4805          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28        5132     SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
 4806          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28        5133     SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
 4807          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28
                                              28
                                                       5134     SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
 4808          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28        5135     SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
 4809          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28        5136     SB     252    1608     Ad, S28
 4810          SB     252     1608      Ad, S 28       5137     SB     252    1608     Ad, S 28
 4811          SB     252     1608      Ad, S 28       5138     SB     252    1608     Ad, S
 4812          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28                 AB     530    1609      Am (as
 5000          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28                                         enacted
 5001          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28                                         by Stats.
 5002          SB     252     1608      Ad, S                                           1969, Ch.
 5003          SB     252     1608      Ad, S28                                         1608)«
 88
      Operative on January 1, 1970.
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                    305
                                   CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE
                    Bill     Chapter                                Bill     Chapter
Section             No.        No.         Effect       Section                           Effect
                                                                    No.       No.
  89           A B 1760        773     Am                413.30   S B 503    1610      Ad, S5818
 117f          A B 1143        491     Am                414      SB 503     1610      R, S M
 117g          AB1143          491     Am                414.10   S B 503    1610      Ad, 18
                                                                                            S
 125           SB 252         1608     R, S*             415      SB 503     1610      R, S M
 131.5         A B 923         522     Ad                415.10   SB 503     1610      Ad, S18
 167           S B 503        1610     Ad, S18           415.20   SB 503     1610      Ad, S M
 170           A B 1757        446     Am                415.30   S B 503    1610      Ad, S
 233           S B 906         350     Am                415.40   SB 503     1610      Ad, S18w
 285.1         S B 252        1608     Am, S28           415.50   SB 503     1610      Ad, S M
 349.4         S B 740         356     R&Ad*             416      SB 503     1610      R, S18
 376           S B 900        1611     Am 18             416.1    S B 503    1610      R, S M
 387           SB 900         1611     Am18 28           416.10   S B 503    1610      Ad, S
 395           S B 252                 Am,8 S            416.2    S B 503    1610      R, S "18
                              1608                                                     Ad, SM
 395.5         AB1096          855     Ad                416.20   S B 503    1610
 396b          S B 574                                   416.3    SB 503     1610      R, S
                               345     Am                                              Ad, S "u
               S B 252        1608     Am, S28           416.30   S B 503    1610      Ad, S18
               A B 530        1609     Am (by            416.40   SB 503     1610      Ad, S18
                                       Sec. 27 of        416.50   SB 503     1610      Ad, S M
                                       Oh.),R            416.60   SB 503     1610      Ad, S
                                        ( a s am by      416.70   S B 503    1610      Ad, S "
                                       Sec. 2627 of      416.80   SB 503     1610      Ad, M  S"
                                       Oh. J Am          416.90   SB 503     1610      R, S 18
                                        (by Sec. 28      417      SB 503     1610      Ad, S
                                       of Oh.) 2 8       417.10   SB 503     1610      Ad, S Mw
  397     S B 252              1608    Am, S26           417.20   SB 503     1610      Ad, S18
  399     S B 574               345    Am                417.30   SB 503     1610      Ad, S 26
Pt.2,                                                    418.10   SB 503     1610      Am, 28S
Title 4 5                                                426a     SB 252     1608      R, S
(heading) SB 503               1610    Ad18 ( R N ) ,    426b     SB 252     1608      A n v SM2 6
                                       S                 426c     SB 252     1608      R, S 18
Pt.2,                                                    473a     SB 503     1610      Ad, S
                                                         473.5    SB 503     1610      Am
Title 5                                                  483      SB 872       690     Am
(heading) S B 503              1610    Am&RN             484      S B 872      690     Am
                                                         486      S B 872      690     Ad
  405           S B 503        1610    R, S18            505      S B 872      690     Ad
  405.5         SB 503         1610    R, S18             535     AB 417       141     Am
  405.7         SB 503         1610    Am  & RN,         545      A B 343      134
                                       S18                581a    SB 503      1610     Am,28 S M
  405.8         AB    259       608    Ad                 583     SB 211       958     Am
  406           SB    503      1610    R, S18             583.5   SB 211       958     R
  407           SB    503      1610    R, S18             585     SB 574       345     Am
  408           SB    503      1610    R, S18                     AB1706       567     Am (by
  410           SB    503      1610    R, S18                                          Sec. 1.5
  410.1         SB    503      1610    R, S18M                                         ofCh.)
  410.10        SB    503      1610    Ad, S18                    SB 900      1611     S (asen-
  410.30        SB    503      1610    Ad, S18                                         acted by
  410.50        SB    503      1610    Ad, S18                                         Stats.
  410.60        SB    503      1610    Ad, S 18                                        1969, 190Oh.
  410.70        SB    503      1610    Ad, S                                           567 )
  411           SB    503      1610    R, S1818                                        Am (by 18
  411.10        SB    503      1610    Ad, S 18                                        Sec. 6.7 J
  411.20        SB    503      1610    Ad, S18            586     SB   574     345     Am
  412           SB    503      1610    R, S                       SB   900    1611     S (asen-
  412.10        SB    503      1610    Ad, S18"                                        acted by
  412.20        SB    503      1610    Ad, S                                           Stats.
                SB             1610    Ad, S18                                         1969, Ch.
  412.30              503                                                              345)""
  413           SB    503      1610    R, S18                                          Am (by
  413.10        SB    503      1610    Ad, S 18                                        Sec. 7.5 ot
  413.20        SB    503      1610    Ad, S18                                         Ch.) 1 8

  * Effective immediately.
  8
 18
    Contingent  effect.
 26
    Operative   on July 1, 1970.
       Operative on January 1 1970.    "
 189
       Operative until July 1, 1970.
306                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                      CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE—Continued
                   Bill      Chapter                                   Bill    Chapter
Section            No.        No.            Effect       Section      No.      No.          Effect

  587    AB1706                 567      Ad               1185.1    S B 316    1362      R28, S148
                                                                                                148

  594    A B 501                 85      Am               1186.1    S B 316    1362      R28
                                                                                          28
                                                                                             , S 148
  597    SB 796                 201      Am               1187.1    S B 316    1362      R28, S148
  632    S B 422                339      Am               1188.1    SB 316     1362      R28, S148
  660    AB 425                  87      Am               1188.2    SB 316     1362      R , S148
  662.5  S B 105                115      Am               1189.1    S B 316    1362      R28
                                                                                          28
                                                                                             , S 148
  664.5  A B 425                 87      Am               1190.1    SB 316     1362      R28 , S
  667a   A B 425                 87      Am               1190.2    SB 316     1362      R28, S1488
  675b   AB 1754                902      Am               1191.1    S B 316    1362      R , S"
  675c   AB 1754                902      Ad               1192.1    S B 316    1362      B28a , S148
                                                                                                  »
  690.12 A B 1235               546      Am&BN            1192.2    S B 316    1362      R28, S148
                                          (as ad by       1193      SB 316     1362      R , S
                                         Stats.                     SB 730     1364      Am, R 28
                                         1068, Ch.                  S B 1186   1468      Am (by
                                         198)                                            Sec. 228 of
  690.125 A B 1235             546       Ad ( E N )                                      Ch.)
  692     A B 569              149       Am               1193.1    S B 316    1362      R28 , S11488
  710     S B 93               154       Am38 148         1193.2    S B 316    1362      R28 , S*
  710a    S B 316             1362       Am , S           1194.1    SB 316     1362      R28, S148
                                                                                           28

  714     AB 343               134       Am               1195.1    SB 316     1362      R28, S148
  717     AB 343               134       Am               1196.1    S B 316    1362      R28, S148
  750     S B 900             1611       Am18             1197.1    S B 316    1362              148
                                                                                         R28, S148
  751.10 SB 900               1611       A m18"           1198.1    SB 316     1362      R28, S148
  751.11 SB 900               1611       Am18             1198.2    S B 316    1362      R28, S148
  757     SB 900              1611       Am B             1199.1    SB 316     1362      R 28, S 148
  762     S B 900             1611       Am               1199.2    SB 316     1362      R28, S148
  801.6   SB 900              1611       Am18             1200      S B 316    1362      R 29, S 8
  801.8   SB 900              1611       Am18  M
                                                          1200.1    SB 316     1362      R ,18S» 28
  801.9   SB 900              1611       Am18                       S B 900    1611      Am28
                                                                                                , 148
                                                                                                   R
  801.10 SB 900               1611       Am1              1201.1    S B 316    1362      R28  , S148
  851     SB 900              1611       Am *             1202.1    SB 316     1362      R 28, S148
  861.1   SB 900              1611       Am18             1203.1    S B 316    1362      R ,28S 148
  863     SB 900              1611       Am18  18
                                                          1203.61   SB 316     1362      Am , S
  870     SB 900              1611       Am18             1241.7    SB 1417     357      Am18
  904.1   SB 900              1611       Am18             1245.2    S B 900    1611      Am 18
  904.2   SB 900              1611       Am               1248      A B 930    1256      Am
  904.3   S B 900             1611       Am18             1567      A B 932     838      Ad
  989     SB 900              1611       Am18             1761      S B 252    1608      Am, S28
  997     S B 866              277       Am               1769      SB 252     1608      Am, S28   28
  998     AB 1756              570       Ad               1770      SB 252     1608      Am, S28
 1014     SB 574               345       Am 28            1771      S B 252    1608      Am, S 28
 1019     SB 252              1608       R, S             1772      S B 252    1608      Am, S
 1029.5   SB 503              1610       Ad18 ( B N ) ,   1952.2    AB 209       44      Am
                                         S                1952.3    A B 276      48      Am
 1032b        S B 503         1610       Ad, S 18         1985.1    A B 416     140      Ad
 1166a        AB 1762          903       Am               1987      AB 680      311      Am
 1167         SB 900          1611       Am18                       S B 867    1034      Am (by
 1174         AB1790           480       Am 148                                          Sec. 1.5
 1181         S B 316         1362       R28
                                           28
                                             , S148                                      ofCh.)
 1182         SB 316          1362       B28  , S148      1989      S B 867    1034      S 18
 1183.1       SB 316          1362       R28, S148        2015.3    SB 900     1611      Ad
 1184.1       S B 316         1362       R , S            2019      S B 867    1034      Am

 M Operative on July 1, 1970.
 26
 28
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
148
    Operative January 1, 1971.
189
    See Sec. 12 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
   Operative until July 1, 1970,
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                     307

                                         COMMERCIAL CODE
                   BUI       Chapter                                  Bill    Chapter
Section            No.         No.            Effect     Section      No.       No.       Effect

3123          AB      66       1521       Am28           9104      AB1377       871     Am
28
     Operative January 1, 1971.



                                        CORPORATIONS CODE
                   BUI        Chapter                                 Bill    Chapter
Section            No.         No.            Effect     Section      No.      No.        Effect

  128         AB1096            855       Ad 3           28406     A B 769     314      Am
                                            3
  129         AB1096            855       Ad             29200     AB 387      138      Am, S «
  310         AB 1124           322       Am             29500     AB 2081    1305      Ad*
  819         S B 124            37       Am             29501     A B 2081   1305      Ad26
 1709         AB 352            376       Am             29502     A B 2081   1305      Ad25
 1900         AB 2079           481       Am             29503     AB2081     1305      Ad25 28
 1901         AB 2079           481       Am18           29510     AB2081     1305      Ad,25S
 2416         SB 900           1611       Am18           29511     A B 2081   1305      Ad 25
 3300         SB 900           1611       Am 8           29512     AB2081     1305      Ad
 3301         SB 1107          1159       AmOT '         29513     A B 2081   1305      Ad26
                                                                                           25
 3301.1       SB 1107          1159       Ad             29514     AB 2081    1305      Ad25
 3301.2       SB 1107          1159       Ad» 7          29515     A B 2081   1305      Ad26
 3301.3       SB 1107          1159       Ad 8 *         29516     AB 2081    1305      Ad 26
 3302         SB 900           1611       Am 1 8         29517     AB 2081    1305      Ad26
 3305.1       SB 900           1611       Am18           29525     AB 2081    1305      Ad 28
 3305.2       SB 503           1610       A d , S18      29526     A B 2081   1305      Ad26
 3632.5       SB 931            396       Ad             29527     A B 2081   1305      Ad
 3672         SB 931            396       Am             29528     A B 2081   1305      Ad25
 3905         A B 2079          481       Am             29535     AB2081     1305      Ad25
 4117         A B 2079          481       Am             29536     AB2081     1305      Ad 25
 4400         AB 1124           322       Am             29537     A B 2081   1305      Ad28
 4403         A B 1124          322       Am             29538     A B 2081   1305      Ad25
 4404         AB 1124           322       Am1 8          29539     A B 2081   1305      Ad 26
24007         SB 900           1611       Am             29540     A B 2081   1305      Ad25
25302         AB 2080           626       Am             29541     AB 2081    1305      Ad 25
25600         AB 387            138       Am, S "        29542     AB 2081    1305      Ad25
25601         AB 387            138       Am, S "        29550     A B 2081   1305      Ad25
25602         A B 387           138       Am, S 1 '      29551     AB 2081    1305      Ad 25
25604         AB 387            138       Am, S "        29552     AB 2081    1305      Ad 25
                                                                                           25
25607         AB 387            138       Am, S "        29560     A B 2081   1305      Ad25
25608         AB 2080           626       Am"            29561     A B 2081   1305      Ad26
25614         AB 387            138       Am, 8 "        29562     A B 2081   1305      Ad 25
25702         AB 387            138       Am, S17        29570     AB2081     1305      Ad
28405         AB 769            314       Am             29571     A B 2081   1305      Ad25
   8
     Contingent effect.
 "18S e e Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  25
     Operative  on July 1, 1970.
  82
     Operative on January 2, 1970.
  87
     Subdivision  (0) operative on January 1, 1970,
     Operative on January 1, 1971.
308                           SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                                        EDUCATION CODE
                  BUI         Chapter                                       Bill      Chapter
Section           No.           No.        Effect         Section           No.         No.          Effect

P t . 1,                                                   982    SB 919               1040   R
Div. 2,                                                     983   SB 919               1040   R
Oh. 1.5,                                                  1002.5  AB 2294               371   Am
Art.l                                                     1002.6  S B 1105             1053   Ad
(heading)                                                 1010    SB 807               1026   Ad
              SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.1  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200         SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.2  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.1       SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.3  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.2       SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.4  S B 807              1026   Ad
  200.3       S B 807          1026     Ad                1010.5  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.4       SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.6  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.5       S B 807          1026     Ad                1010.7  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.6       SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.8  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.7       SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.9  SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.8       SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.10 SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.9       SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.11 SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.10      S B 807          1026     Ad                1010.12 S B 807              1026   Ad
  200.11      SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.13 SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.12      SB 807           1026     Ad                1010.14 SB 807               1026   Ad
  200.13      SB 807           1026     Ad                1016    SB 1370              1203   Am
  200.14      SB 807           1026     Ad                1016.5  SB 1370              1203   Am
  200.15      SB 807           1026     Ad                1018    SB 635               1104   Am
  200.16      SB 807           1026     Ad                1019.5  AB1051                 846  Ad
  200.17      SB 807           1026     Ad                1020    SB 297                 289  Ad
  200.18      S B 807          1026     Ad                1031    AB2294                 371  Am
  200.19      SB 807           1026     Ad                1046    AB2163                1308  Ad
  200.20      SB 807           1026     Ad                1052    AB1100                1265   Am
  200.21      SB 807           1026     Ad                 1081.5 AB 186                 534  Am&RN
  200.22      SB 807           1026     Ad                                                     (as ad by
  321         AB2300            1519    Am                                                     Stats.
  321.5       AB2300            1519    Ad                                                     1967, Oh.
  322         AB2300            1519    Am                                                     1627)
  323         AB2300            1519     Am                1081.6       AB 186           534   Ad ( R N )
  324         AB2300            1519    Am                 1085         SB 510          1103  Am
  325         AB2300            1519     Am                             S B 635         1104   Am
  371         AB 186             534    R (as ad           1162         AB 703          1513   R&Ad
                                         by Stats,         1163         A B 703         1513   R&Ad
                                         1967, Oh.         1164         A B 703         1513   Am
                                         1536)             1165         A B 703         1513   Am
   372        A B 186            534     B (as ad          1205         A B 186          534   Am
                                         by Stats.         1301         AB 661           575   Am
                                         1967, Ch.         1327         A B 2119         936   Am
                                         1536              1329         AB 186           534   Am
   407          AB 512           801     Ad                1387         AB 1823          913   Am
   485          SB 919          1040    Ad                 1703         SB 349           158   S*
   486          SB 919          1040     Ad                1704         SB 349           158   S*
   487          SB 919          1040    Ad                 1825         A B 822          830   Am
   488          SB 919          1040    Ad                 2362         AB 822           830   Am
   560          AB1484           882     Ad*               2363.5       A B 822          830   Ad
   601.1        S B 880          744    Am* 2 1            2364         A B 822          830   Ad ( R N )
   658          AB 822           830     Am                2365         A B 822          830   Am & RN,
   708          S B 880          744     Am"                                                   Ad ( R N )
   767          SB 220          1432     Am                2366         AB 822           830   Am & RN,
   817          AB1051           846     Am                                                    Ad
   885.5        A B 606          784     Ad, S* M          2367         A B 822          830   Am & RN,
   892.6        AB 151            62     Am*162
                                                                                               Ad ( R N )
   893.20 A B 887               1446     Ad                2368         A B 822          830   Am & RN,
    893.21 AB 887               1446     Ad 16S . 1H>                                          Ad
    895.11 A B 606               784    Ad, S* »            2369        A B 822           830  Am & RN,
    981         SB 919          1040    R                                                      Ad ( R N )
   *
  18
     Effective immediately.
  21
     Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
 162
     Operative on July 1,  1969.
     Operative until June 30, 1972.
 '"* Report to Legislature no later than fifth legislative day of 1972 Begular Session re operation of classes for
        adults and the state financial support therefor.
                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                               309

                            EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                 Bill     Chapter                                       Bill      Chapter
Section          No.        No.           Effect       Section          No.         No.          Effect

2369.5      A B 822          830     Am&RN             5792        A B 606          784      Am, S* »
2370        ^.B 822          830     R&Ad                          A B 2187        1310      Am
                                     (BN)              5799.51     A B 2189        1568      Ad"
  2371     AB 822            830     Ad ( R N )        5799.52     A B 2189        1568      Ad"
  2372     AB 822            830     Ad                5799.53     A B 2189        1568      Ad"
 2373      AB 822            830     Ad                5799.54     A B 2189        1568      Ad 4 '
P t . 1,                                               5989.5      A B 934         1257      Ad
Div. 5,                                                5991.5      A B 2182         532      Ad*
Ch. 10 (commencing                                     5995        A B 136          518      Ad*
  3100)    SB 1039         1146      S                 5995.1      AB 136           518      Ad*
  3100     SB 236           334      Am                5995.2      A B 136          518      Ad*
  3100.2   SB 1039         1146      Ad                5995.3      A B 136          518      Ad*
  3100.10 SB 1039          1146      Ad                5995.4      A B 136          518      Ad*
  3141     SB 1279          458      S                 5995.45     A B 136          518      Ad*
  3141.5   S B 1279         458      S                 5995.5      A B 136          518      Ad*
  3142     S B 1279         458                        5995.6      A B 136          518      Ad*
  3143     SB 1279          458       s                5995.7      A B 136          518      Ad*
  3144     SB 1279          458       s                5995.8      A B 136          518      Ad* 8 0
  3145     SB 1279          458       s                5995.9      A B 136          518      Ad*
  3146     SB 1279          458       s                5996        A B 136          518      Ad*
  3147     SB 1279          458       s                6001        A B 387          138      Am, S 1"
  8148     SB 1279          458       s                6002        A B 387          138      Am, S '
  3149     SB 1279          458       s                6003        A B 387          138      Am, S "
  3149.1   SB 1279          458       s                6201        S B 840         1107      R
  3150     SB 1279          458       s                6202        S B 840         1107      R
  3255     A B 334          359       sAm              6204        S B 840         1107      R
  3296.5   SB 1046         1148       Am1 8 0          6205        S B 840         1107      R
  3300.5   AB 2016         1299       Am               6206        S B 840         1107      R
  3349     SB 284           157       R                6207        S B 840         1107      R
  3350     SB 284           157       R                6208        S B 840         1107      R
Div. 6,                                                6209        S B 840         1107      R
Ch. 1,                                                 6211        S B 1045        1147      Ad82
Art. 3                                                 6252        S B 305         1495      Am*
 (heading) SB 761            395      Ad                           A B 1820        1555      Am, S
  5030.1   S B 109            35      Ad                6254       S B 305         1495      Am*
  5208     SB 635           1104      Am                           A B 1820        1555      Am, S
  5254     AB2200           1311      Am                6257       S B 305         1495      R & Ad (by
  5603     SB 284            157      R                                           ~          Sec. 3 & 4
  5605     SB 180            263      Am                                                     ofCh.),*
           SB 283            967      Am                                                     R
           SB 1158          1173      S                                                      Ad (by
  5605.1   SB 1158          1173      Ad                                                     Sec. 4.5 of
  5716     SB 294            968      Am*                                                    Ch.)
  5721     A B 186           534      R (as ad                      A B 1820          1555   R&Ad
                                      by Stats.         6261        A B 1820          1555   Ad, S
                                      1965, Oh.         6261.5      A B 1820          1555   Ad, S
                                      842)
                                        129
                                                        6262        A B 1820          1555   Ad, S
 5766        S B 1252       1379      Ad                6263        A B 1820          1555   Ad, S
 5766.1      S B 1252       1379      Ad™
                                        129
                                                        6264        AB1820            1555   Ad, S
 5766.2      SB 1252        1379      Ad                6265        A B 1820          1555   Ad, S
 5766.3      SB 1252        1379      Ad 1 2 9          6266        A B 1820          1555   Ad, S
 5766.4      SB 1252        1379      Ad 129            6267        A B 1820          1555   Ad, S
 5779        A B 2187       1310      Am                6268        A B 1820          1555   Ad, S1OT
 5781        AB 606          784      A m , S* 19       6268.2      A B 1820          1555    Ad, S
 5787.5      A B 2187       1310      Ad                6268.4      A B 1820          1555    A d , S1OT
 5789.5      A B 606         784      R, S* 19          6268.6      A B 1820          1555    A d , S1OT
   * Effective immediately.
  " S e e Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  "Operative
  30
                 for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
     Superintendent of Public Instruction and Boaid of Governors of the California Community Colleges shall
          report to Legislature no later than fifth legislative day of 1971 Begular Session.
  <*
  82
      Effective until 91st day after final adjournment of 1973 Regular Session.
 107
      Not operative.
 w
     Operative January 1, 1970.
 189
      Effective until July 1, 1972.
      Certain county master plans to be submitted to State Board of Education on or before December 31, 1969;
          after approval, county superintendents to set elections on or before June 2, 1970.
310                      SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTEES

                           EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                 Bill     Chapter                                       Bill     Chapter
Section          No.        No.         Effect         Section          No.       No.          Effect

 6268.8     AB 1820        1555      Ad, S107          6490      SB 531           1578      Am, S* •»
 6268.10    AB 1820        1555      Ad, S107                    AB 938           1596      Am, S* 9«o
 6268.12    AB 1820        1555      Ad, S107          6491      SB 531           1578      Am, S* °
 6268.14    AB 1820        1555      Ad, S107
                                          10T
                                                                 AB 938           1596      Am, S* °°
 6268.16    AB 1820        1555      Ad, S1OT          6492      SB 531           1578      Am, S* »
 6268.18    AB 1820        1555      Ad, S107                    AB 938           1596      Am,
                                                                                              90
                                                                                                 S* °°
 6268.20    AB 1820        1555      Ad, S1OT          6493      SB 531           1578      S* 8 0
 6268.22    AB 1820        1555      Ad, S                       A B 938          1596      S*
 6270       SB 305         1495      Ad*               6494      SB 531           1578      g * 90
 6271       S B 305        1495      Ad*                         A B 938          1596      g*90
 6272       S B 305        1495      Ad*               6495      SB 531           1578      Am, S* M
 6273       SB 305         1495      Ad*                         A B 938          1596      Am, S* eo
 6274       SB 305         1495      Ad*               6496      S B 531          1578      S* 9900
 6275       S B 305        1495      Ad*                         AB 938           1596      S*
 6276       SB 305         1495      Ad*               6497      SB 531           1578      Am, S* •»
 6277       S B 305        1495      Ad*                         AB 938            1596     Am, S* o°
 6278       S B 305        1495      Ad*               6498      S B 531          1578      Am* 9 0
 6279       S B 305        1495      Ad*                         AB 938            1596     Am* *>
 6280       SB 305         1495      Ad*               6499.51 SB 887             1501      Ad
 6281       S B 305        1495      Ad*               6499.52 SB 887             1501      Ad
 6421       AB 606           784      g # 19, 122      6499.53 SB 887             1501      Ad
 6422       AB 606           784      g * 19, 123      6499.54 SB 887             1501      Ad
 6423       A B 606          784      Am, S* ">•       6499.55 SB 887             1501      Ad
                                       122
                                                       6499.56 SB 887             1501      Ad
 6423.1      AB 606          784      Am, S* w<        6499.57 SB 887             1501      Ad
                                       122
                                                       6499.58 SB 887             1501      Ad101
 6424        A B 606         784      Am, S* 1B'       6499.59 SB 887              1501     Ad
                                       122
                                                       6499.60 SB 887              1501     Ad
 6425        AB 606          784      g * 19,122       6499.61 SB 887              1501     Ad
 6426        A B 606         784      Am, S* 1B'       6499.200 AB 606              784     Ad, S* 10"
                                       122
                                            le
                                                        6499.201 AB 606             784     Ad, S* 19
 6428        AB    606       784      K, S* 19          6499.203 AB 606             784     Ad, S*
 6429        AB    606       784      R, S* M          6499.204 AB 606              784     Ad, S* 19
 6430        AB    606       784      R, S* 19          6499.205 AB 606             784     Ad, S* 10
                                                                                                    M
 6431        AB    606       784      R, S* 10          6499.206 A B 606            784     Ad, S* 19
 6433        AB    606       784      Am, S* '          6499.207 AB 606             784     Ad, S* 19
                                      122
                                                        6499.208 AB 606             784     Ad, S*
 6456   AB         186       534      Am                6499.209 A B 606            784     Ad, S* »
 6467   AB         186       534      Am                6499.210 AB 606             784     Ad, S* M»
 6473.5 SB         531      1578      Ad*               6499.211 AB 606             784     Ad, S* 19
        AB         938      1596      Ad*               6499.212 AB 606             784      Ad, S* M
 6478.5 SB         115       952      Am*               6499.213 AB 606             784      Ad, S* 19
 6478.7 SB         115       952      Am*               6499.214 AB 606             784      Ad, S*
 6481   SB         531      1578     -S*                6499.215 AB 606             784      Ad, S* 19w
        AB         938      1596      S*                6499.216 AB 606             784      Ad, S* 19
 6481.5 SB         531      1578      s*                6499.217 AB 606             784      Ad, S*
        AB         938      1596      s*                6499.218 A B 606            784      Ad, S* a
 6481.6 SB         531      1578      s*               Div. 6,
        AB         938      1596      s*               Oh. 7,
 6482   SB         531      1578      s*               Art. 1
        AB         938      1596      s*               (heading) S B 295            558      Am*
 6483   SB         531      1578      s*                6501      SB 295            558      Am*
        AB         938      1596      s*                6501.1    S B 295           558      Ad*
 6484 ' SB         531      1578      Am, S*
        AB         938      1596      Am, S*            6502      SB 295            558      Am*
 6485   SB         531      1578      S*                          AB 1937          1295      Am
        AB         938      1596      s*                6503      SB 295            558      Am*
 6486   SB         531      1578      s*                          AB 1937          1295      Am
             A B 938        1596      S*             I 6504         SB 295           558     Am*
   * Effective immediately.
  "Operative
  M
                for entire 1969-1970fiscalyear.
     No force or effect after 91st day following adjournment of 1972 Regular Session.
 «"Not later than 1972-73 fiscal year, State Board of Education shall distribute a description of results
         achieved in exemplary programs conducted.
 *•<" Operative January 1, 1970.
 12a Beginning July 1, 1970, any proposed program for mentally gifted minors shall receive prior approval of
        the Superintendent of Public Instruction before any apportionment is made under this article.
                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                          311

                          EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                 Bill    Chapter                                    BUI      Chapter
Section          No.       No.        Effect        Section         No.        No.          Effect

6505          S B 295      558     Am*             6903.2      AB     606      784      Ad, S* 19>«
6506          SB 295       558     Am*             6904.3      SB     586     1124      Ad
6507          SB 295       558     Am*             6907        AB     186      534      Am^
6508          SB 295       558     Am*             6910        AB     186      534      Am,
              AB 1937     1295     Am              6911        AB     186      534      Am
6750          A B 606      784     Am, S* 1B
                                          M
                                                   6931        AB     186      534      Am
6751          A B 606      784     Am, S* 1B      Div. 6,
6751.1        A B 606      784     Am, S* 1B      Ch. 10
6752          A B 606      784     Am, S*         (Title)       A B 1410      1270      Am
6752.1        A B 606      784     Am, S* 1B»      6950         AB 1410       1270      Am
6752.2        AB 606       784     Am, S* 1B       6957         AB 1410       1270      Am
6754          AB 606       784     Am, S*          6971         SB 840        1107      R
6755          A B 606      784     R&Ad,           6972         AB 387         138      Am, S17
                                   g * 19                       S B 840       1107      R
6755.1        A B 606      784     Ad, S* 19        6973        S B 840       1107      R
6755.2        A B 606       784    Ad, S* Ms        6974        S B 840       1107      R
6755.3        AB 606        784    Ad, S* l M       6975        S B 840       1107      R
6758          A B 606       784    Am,m S*          6976        SB 840        1107      R
6790          SB 1304     1198     Ad               6977        S B 840       1107      R
6791          SB 1304     1198     Ad"1 1           6978        SB 840        1107      R
6792          SB 1304     1198     Ad "             6979        S B 840       1107      R
6793          S B 1304    1198     A d lma          6981        S B 840       1107      R
6794          SB 1304     1198     Ad               6983        S B 840       1107      R
6801          AB 186        534    Am               6984        S B 840       1107      R
6802          A B 606       784    Am, S*1B1B       6985        SB 840        1107      R
6802.1        A B 606       784    Ad, S*           6986        S B 840       1107      R 21
6802.2        AB 606        784    Ad, S* 1B        6990        SB 338         290      Ad*
6806          AB 186        534    Am                           S B 840       1107      R (as ad
              A B 915       837    Am                                                   by Stats.
6807          AB 186        534    Am                                                   1969, Ch.
6808          A B 186       534    Am                                                   2 9 0 2) 1"
6809          A B 54      1215     Am               6990,1      S B 338        290      Ad*
6811          AB 186        534    Am                           S B 840       1107      R (asad
6812          AB 186        534    Am                                                   by S t a t s .
6812.5        AB 186        534    Am                                                   1969, Ch.
              A B 913     1612     Am*                                                  290) *
6813          A B 186       534    Am               6990.2      SB 338         290      Ad*sa
6815          AB 186        534    Am                           S B 840       1107      R (as ad
6820          S B 632     1113     Am                                                   by Stats.
6871          AB 186        534    Am                                                    1969, Ch.
              AB 95       1524     Am18                                                  2 9 0 )2 »1
6873          AB 95       1524     Am18  18
                                                    6990.3      S B 338         290     Ad*
6874          A B 95      1524     Am18                         S B 840        1107     R ( a s ad
6874.5        AB 95       1524     Am                                                    by Stats.
6874.6        AB 186        534    Am                                                    1969, Ch.
6902          AB 186        534    Am                                                    290)*
              A B 54      1215     Am                6990.4     SB 338          290     Ad*21
6902.5        AB 606        784    Ad, S* 1B                    S B 840        1107     R (as ad
6902.1        SB 586      1124     Ad                                                    by S t a t s .
6902.2        A B 606       784    Ad, S* 1B                                             1969, Ch.
6902.3        AB 606        784    Ad, S* 1B                                             290 )*>
6902.4        A B 606       784    Ad, S* 10         6990.5      S B 338        290      Ad*a
6902.5        A B 606       784    Ad, * 1B                      S B 840       1107      R ( a s ad
6903          AB 186        534    Am                                                    by S t a t s .
              AB 54        1215    Am                                                    1969, Ch.
 6903.1       A B 606       784    Ad, S* l e                                            290) 2 6
  * Effective immediately.
 11
 18
    See Sec   311.5 of Ch re conflicting provisions.
    Operative on July 1, 1970.
 "Operative
 21
               for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
 26
    Operative on July 1, 1989
 74
    Operative  on January 1, 1970.
141
    No force or effect after June 30, 1971
    Report to Legislature at 1971 Regular Session describing program established for the preparation of
       teachers to teach educationally handicapped minors.
312                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                              EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                                   Bill     Chapter
Section           No.         No.       Effect       Section          No.       No.           Effect

6990.6       SB 338           290     Ad* 2 1        7005        S B 840        1107      R
             S B 840         1107     R (as ad       7006        SB 840         1107      R
                                      by Stats.      7007        SB 840         1107      R
                                      1969,MOh.      7008        S B 840        1107      R
                                      290)           7009        SB 840         1107      R
6990.7       SB 338            290    Ad* 2 1        7010        SB 840         1107      R
             S B 840          1107    R (as ad       7011        SB 840         1107      R
                                      by Stats.      7012        SB 840         1107      R
                                      1969,26Oh.     7013        SB 840         1107      R
                                      290)           7014        SB 840         1107      R
6990.8        S B 338          290    Ad*a           7015        SB 850         1107      R
              SB 840          1107    R (asad        7016        SB 840         1107      R
                                      by Stats.      7017        SB 840         1107      R
                                      1969,2 9Oh.    7018        S B 840        1107      R
                                      290)           7019        SB 840         1107      R
 6990.9       SB 338           290    Ad* 2 1        7020        S B 840        1107      R
              S B 840         1107    R (as ad       7021        S B 840        1107      R
                                      by Stats.      7022        SB 840         1107      R
                                      1969,26Oh.     7023        S B 840        1107      R
                                      290)           7024        SB 840         1107      R
 6990.10      S B 338          290    Ad* 2 1        7025        S B 840        1107      R
              SB 840          1107    R (as ad       7026        SB 840         1107      R
                                      by Stats.      7027        SB 840         1107      R
                                      1969, Ch.      7028        SB 840         1107      R
                                      290 )*>        7041        S B 840        1107      R
 6990.11      S B 338          290    Ad* 2 1        7042        SB 840         1107      R
              S B 840         1107    R (as ad        7043       SB 840         1107      R
                                      by Stats.      7044        S B 840        1107      R
                                       1969, Ch.     7450        AB 140          1368     Am
                                       290)2261       7451       S B 122          953     Am
 6990.12      SB 338           290    Ad*             7451.1     A B 140         1368      Am & RN,
              S B 840         1107    R (as ad                                             Ad
                                       bv Stats.      7451.2      SB    293       337     Ad*
                                       1969, Ch.                  AB    140      1368      Ad ( R N )
                                       290 )2 1M      7451.7      SB    122       953     Ad
 6990.13      SB 338           290    Ad*             7455        SB    882       745     Am*
              S B 840         1107    R (as ad        7456        SB    882       745     Am*
                                       by Stats.                  AB    140      1368      Am
                                       1969, Ch.      7459        AB    140      1368      Am
                                       290) *         7460        SB    293       337     Ad*
 6991         AB 186           534    R                           AB    140      1368      Ad ( R N )
              SB 840          1107    R               7461        AB    140      1368      Ad ( R N )
 6992         AB 186           534    R               7462        AB    140      1368      Ad ( R N )
              S B 840         1107    R               7463        AB    140      1368      Ad
 6993         AB 186           534     R             Div. 6,
              SB 840          1107    R              Ch. 14.5
 6994         AB 186           534     R             (heading) AB 186             534      Ad ( R N )
              S B 840         1107    R 82           Div. 6,
 6995.1       SB 1389         1472    Ad82           Ch.15
 6995.2       SB 1389         1472    Ad 82          (heading) AB 186             534      Am&RN
 6995.3       SB 1389         1472     Ad 82          8054     S B 1208          1180      Am1 6 8
 6995.4       SB 1389         1472     Ad82           8121     AB 1486           1454      Ad
 6997         SB 1389         1472     Ad82           8122     AB 1486           1454      Ad 1 6 8
 6997.1       S B 1389        1472    Ad              8123     A B 1486          1454      Ad 1 5 8
 7001         SB 840          1107    R               8124     A B 1486          1454      A ( J158, 168
                                                                                                168,
 7002         SB 840          1107    R               8125     AB 1486           1454      Ad          1E0
 7003         SB 840          1107    R               8126     A B 1486          1454      A d 1 5 8 , 159
 7004         SB 840          1107    R               8127     AB1486            1454      Ad 1 5 8
 * Effective immediately.
 21
 26
    Operative on July 1, 1969.                                                                               '
 82
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
158
    Not operative.
159
    No force or effect on and after
                                 July 1, 1974.
   Certain experimental automobile driver training piograms to be conducted between July 1, 1970 and June
      30, 1971.
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                     313
                               EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                   Bill       Chapter                                  Bill     Chapter
Section           -No.          No.       Effect      Section          No.       No.          Effect
                                                                                              3
8375          A B 136           518     R*            9318        S B 225        1110       R
8376          A B 136           518     R*            9319        S B 225        1110      Am&RN3
8377          A B 136           518     R*            9351        S B 225        1110      R&Ad
8378          A B 136           518     R*                                                  (by Sec.
8379          AB 136            518     R*                                                 17 &
8380          A B 136           518     R*                                                 18.5 3of
8381          A B 136           518     R*                                                 Ch.)
8381.1        A B 136           518     R*                        SB     822     1114      R&Ad
8381.2        A B 136           518     R*                                                  (by Sec.
8382          A B 136           518     R*                                                 4&5 9
8383          A B 136           518     R*                                                 ofCh.)
8506          S B 413           977     Ad                                                 Am (by
8551          SB 342            971     Am                                                 Sec. 3
8571          S B 342           971     Am                                                 ofCh.>
8572.5        AB1042            617     Am167          9361    S B 225           1110      Am 3
8575          AB1530           1373     Am             9502    S B 284            157      Am
              A B 1534         1552     Am             9751    A B 676            576      Am
 8701         AB2126           1307     Am             9959    S B 342            971      Am
 9012         AB 388           1530     Am         1 10013     S B 342            971      Am
 9013         A B 388          1530     Am            10301    SB 1045           1147      Am
 9021         AB 192           1223     Am            10507    A B 1410          1270      Am
 9254         AB2294            371     Am            10508    A B 1410          1270      Am
 9255         S B 225          1110     Am 8          10521    A B 910            652      Ad
Div. 8,                                               10522    A B 910            652      Ad
Ch.2,                                                 10603    A B 2247           941      Am
Art.l                                                 10604    A B 1100          1265      Am
(heading) AB 1489              1349     Am            10604.3  AB1100            1265      Ad
 9801     SB 225               1110     Am 3          10606    A B 2345          1324      Am
 9305     S B 342               971     Am            10651    SB 1045           1147      R
 9307     SB 225               1110     R & A d (by 10703      A B 907           1254      Am
                                        Sec. 3 and 10751       A B 186            534      Am
                                        4ofCh.)8               A B 2214          1363      Am
                                        Am (by                 S B 810           1465      Am (by
                                        Sec. 3.5                                            Sec. 3
                                        of Ch.)                                             ofCh.)
 9308          S B 225         1110     Am (by        10754    A B 750             701     Ad
                                        Sec. 5.5               A B 1613           1088     Ad
                                        o£Ch.)        10756    A B 1558           1082     Ad
              A B 1489         1349     Am (by        10757    A B 2279           1321     Ad, S
                                        Sec. 33 of    10758    A B 2279           1321      Ad
                                        Ch.)          10956    A B 140            1368      Ad ( R N )
                                        Am (by        11003    A B 606             784      Am, S* w
                                        Sec 2
                                        of Ch.)       11005    SB 295              558     Am*
                                            3
 9310          SB 225          1110     Am            11006    S B 295             558     Am*
                                                 3
 9312          S B 225         1110     R&Ad          11052    AB    21            788      Am
 9313          SB 225          1110     R&Ad          11055    AB    21            788      Am
                                                3     Div. 9,
                                         (RN)
 9314          SB 225          1110     R&Ad          Ch.2,
                                         (RN)   3     Art. 3.5
 9315          S B 225         1110     Am & RN,3 (heading) A B 140              1368      Am
                                        Ad ( R N )    11061    A B 140           1368      Am&RN
 9316          SB 225          1110     Am3 & RN, 11075        S B 295            558      Am*
                                         Ad           11251    S B 172           1494      Am, S*
 9316.1        S B 822         1114     Ad
 9316.2        S B 822         1114     Ad            11252    S B 172           1494      Am, S*
 9317          S B 225         1110     Am & RN, 11257         S B 172           1494      Ad ( R N ) ,
                                                    8
                                         Ad ( R N )                                        S*
  * Effective immediately.
   3
  19
     Contingent effect.
 167
     Operative for entire
                       1969-1970 fiscal year.
    On or before July 1, 1970, state board of education to prepare, etc., model minimum academic standards
      for graduation.
314                        SECTIONS A F F E C T E D BY 1 9 6 9 C H A P T E R S

                             EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                   Bill     Chapter                                      Bill     Chapter
Section            No.        No.         Effect        Section          No.       No.           Effect

11301         A B 606         784      Am (by          12821        AB    53       1408      Am
                                       Sec. 2 of                    AB 1534        1552      R&Ad
                                       Ch.),S«»>       12821.1      AB 1534        1552      R
                                       R^Am            12822        AB1534         1552      R&Ad
                                       (by Sec.        12823        AB    53       1408      Am
                                       2.2 of 1 3 3                 AB 1534        1552      R&Ad
                                       Oh.) ^ '        12823.1      AB    53       1408      R
                                       sn                           AB 1534        1552      R
          SB         172     1494      Am, S* wm       12824        A B 1534       1552      R&Ad
11301.5   AB         606      784      Ad, S*          12825        AB 1534        1552      R&Ad
11401     SB         172     1494      Am, S* >»       12826        AB 1534        1552      R&Ad
11404     SB         172     1494      Am, S*          12827        AB1534         1552      Ad
Div. 9,                                                12828        AB 1534        1552 •-   Ad
Ch. 3,                                                 12829        AB 1534        1552      Ad
Art. 4.5                                               Pt.2,
(heading) AB         140     1368      R               Div. 9,
11411     AB         140     1368      Am&RN           Ch.9,
11411.1   AB         140     1368      Am&RN           Art. 2
11412     AB         140     1368      Am&RN            (heading) AB     53         1408     R
          SB         172     1494      Am&RN,          12830       AB    53         1408     Am
                                       S*                          AB 1534          1552     R&Ad
11479.5       AB 1374        1391      Ad,1 S*         12830.5     AB    53         1408     Am
11483         SB 493          716      Ad »                        AB 1534          1552     R
              SB 672         1009      Ad              12831       AB 1534          1552     R
11553.1       SB 586         1124      Ad              Pt.2,
11824         AB 895          836      Am              Div. 9,
11870         A B 2209        937      Am              Oh. 9,
11871         AB 2209         937      Am              Art. 2
11872         AB2209          937      Am               (heading ) AB    53        1408      Ad
11873         AB 2209         937      Am              12832       AB 1534         1552      R
11874         AB2209          937      Am              12833       AB 1534         1552      R
12051         SB 936          692      Am              12834       AB 1534         1552      R
12055         SB 936          692      Am              12835       AB 1534         1552      R
12101         SB 570          992      Am              12836       AB1534          1552      R
12259         AB 2212        1589      Am              12837       A B 1534        1552      R
12305         AB 2212        1589      Am              12838       AB1534          1552      R
12401         SB 570          992      Am              12840       AB 1534         1552      Ad
12402         SB 570          992      Am              12841       AB 1534         1552      Ad
12403         SB 570          992      Am              12842       AB 1534         1552      Ad
12404         S B 570         992      Am & RN,        12843       AB 1534         1552      Ad
                                       Ad ( R N )      12844       AB 1534         1552      Ad
12408         SB 570          992      Am & RN,        12848       AB 1534         1552      Ad
                                       Ad ( R N )      12849       AB 1534         1552      Ad
12409         AB 186          534      Am              12851       AB 1534         1552      R
              SB 570          992       R              12852       AB    53        1408      Am
12410         SB 570          992      Am                          AB 1534         1552      R
12415         SB 390          973      Ad              12853       AB 1534         1552      R
12416         SB 390          973      Ad              13009       AB 718           821      Am
12454         SB 386          972      Am              13118.3     SB 913          1130      Ad82
12554         SB 570          992      Ad              13121       AB 978          1371      Am
12704         AB 2212        1589      Am              13124.6     SB 982          1503      Ad82
12705         AB 2212        1589       R              13124.7     SB 982          1503      Ad82
12756         S B 386         972      Am              13162       SB 364           389      Am
12820         AB 53          1408      Am              13168       AB 1898         1559      Am
              AB1534         1552      R&Ad            13183       SB 255           355      S*
 * Effective immediately.
 19
 82
    Operative for entire1969-1970 fiscal year.
123
    Not operative.
    Commencing on February 15, 1970, certain kindergarten A.D.A. to be adjusted by multiplication factor
       of 0.750; commencing July 1, 1970 certain kindergarten A.D.A. to be adjusted by multiplication factor
181
       of 0.417; commencing July 1, 1971, no A.D.A. shall be credited in certain kindergarten classes.
    For fiscal years 1968-1969 only. Superintendent of Public Instruction may authorize alternate method of
2
       computing a.d.a.
  « Operative upon effective date of Ch. 1494 (September 6, 1969).
                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                                  315

                             EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                                          Bill      Chapter
Section           Vo.        No.           Effect         Section           No.        No.           Effect

13187        A B 186         534       Am               13250.3        A B 1117        1586      Ad
             SB 982         1503       Am (by           13250.4        A B 1362        1453      Ad
                                       Sec. 3 of                       A B 1117        1586      Ad" a
                                       Ch.),S           13250.6        A B 1362        1453      Ad
13187.1      SB 423          715       Am*              13250.8        AB 1362         1453      Ad
13187.6      SB 913         1130       Ad               13250.10       AB 1362         1453      Ad
13188        AB 1415        1551       Am               13250.12       AB 1362         1453      Ad
13188.5      SB 982         1503       Ad, S            13250.14       A B 1362        1453      Ad
13189        SB 421         1401       Am               13250.16       AB 1362         1453      Ad
13190        S B 421        1401       Am               13250.18       A B 1362        1453      Ad
13190.5      AB 1801          910      Ad               13250.20       A B 1362        1453      Ad
13191.1      SB 421         1401       Am87             13250.22       AB 1362         1453      Ad
13192        SB 421         1401       Am               13250.24       AB 1362         1453      Ad
13192.5      AB 1801          910      Ad               13250.26       AB 1362         1453      Ad
13220        SB 221           961      Ad               13250.28       A B 1362        1453      Ad
13220.1      S B 221         961       Ad               13252.5        A B 606          784      Ad, S* w
13220.2      SB 221           961      Ad               13260          A B 671          540      Am
13220.3      SB 221           961      Ad               13288          SB 295           558      Am*
13220.4      SB 221           961      Ad               13325          A B 241          795      Am
13220.5      SB 221           961      Ad               13337.5        S B 671         1127      Am
13220.6      SB 221           961      Ad               13341          A B 996         1262      Am
13220.7      SB 221           961      Ad               13443          A B 2221        1315      Am
13220.8      SB 221           961      Ad               13443.5        SB 284           157      Am
13220.9      S B 221          961      Ad               13443.6        A B 1162        1545      Ad
13220.10     SB 221           961      Ad               13456          AB 1564         1395      Am
13220.11     SB 221           961      Ad               13460          S B 472          984      Am
13220.12     SB 221           961      Ad               13460.3        SB 472           984      Ad
13220.13     SB 221           961      Ad               13460.5        SB 289            72      Ad w
13220.14     SB 221           961      Ad               13506          AB 2216         1314      Am
13220.15     SB 221           961      Ad               13510          AB 747          1246      Am
13220.16     SB 221           961      Ad               13520          S B 1021        1137      Am
13220.17     SB 221           961      Ad               13520.2        SB 716          1015      Ad
13220.18     SB 221           961      Ad               13521          A B 1115         653      Am
13220.19     SB 221           961      Ad               13525          A B 2272        1590      Am
13220.20     SB 221           961      Ad               13529.5        AB 186           534      B (as ad
13220.23     SB 221           961      Ad                                                        by Stats.
13223        SB 1136        1168       Am                                                        1967, Oh.
13245        AB 741         1617       Ad168                                                     1536)
13246        AB 741         1617       Ad                13561.2       A B 2210        1312      Ad
13246.1      AB 741         1617       Ad168             13581         SB 664           685      S
13246.5      A B 741        1617       Ad                13581.3       S B 664          685      Ad
13247        AB 741         1617       Ad                13582.1       AB 1082         1058      Ad
13247.5      AB 741         1617       Ad                13592.1       AB 258          1227      Am«
13247.8      AB 741         1617       Ad                13599.2       AB1165          1388      Am*
13247.9      AB 741         1617       Ad                13651.6       AB 597           651      Ad
13248        AB 741         1617       Ad                13655         SB 767          1433      Am
13249        AB 741         1617       Ad1               13706         SB 410           602      Am
13249.5      AB 741         1617       Ad ™              13712         S B 664          685      S
13250        AB 1362         1453      Ad                13712.1       AB2163          1308      Ad138
             AB 1117        1586       Ad                13723.2       AB 1412         1077      Am
13250.1      AB 1117        1586       Ad
13250.2      AB 1362        1453       Ad                13733         AB 2273         1098      Am
             AB 1117         1586      Ad                13734         AB 2273         1098      Am
  * Effective immediately.
 18
    Operative on .July 1, 1970.
 "Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
 "
 CT
    Operative on first of month following month in which statutes enacted at 1969 Regular Session are effective.
 83
    Operative only until September 30, 1970.
 68
    Effective until 1st day of 1971 Regular Session.
    Master teacher selection pilot program shall commence on September 1, 1970 and terminate on August
 m
    Certain master teacher selection panel members shall be selected in secret ballot election held not later
 70
       than October 15, 1970.
    Report and recommendations to Legislature re all phases of certified master teacher program on or before
 72
       fifth legislative day of 1973 Regular Session.
    Progress report to Legislature not later than fifth legislative day of 1972 Regular Session and further report
       not later than fifth legislative day of 1974 Regular Session re certain teacher preparation programs.
316                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                              EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                   Bill     Chapter                                      Bill     Chapter
Section            No.        No.           Effect          Section      No.        No.        Effect

13801         A B 387          138      Am, S "212          13852     A B 1728      896       &Ad212
                                                                                            R 212
              A B 1728         896      R & Ad 212          13852.1   A B 1728      896     R212
13802         A B 1728         896      K & Ad              13852.2   A B 1728      896     R     218
13803         A B 1728         896      R212                13853     A B 1728      896     R&Ad
13804         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212           13853.1   A B 1728      896     R212
13805         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212           13853.2   A B 1728      896     R212
13806         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212           13853.3   A B 1728      896     Raa
13807         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212           13854     A B 1728      896     R&Ad 2211*3
13808         A B 1728         896         & Ad212
                                        R 212               13855     A B 1728              R 212
                                                                                              &Ad
13809         A B 1728         896      R                   13856     A B 1728              R
13810         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212           13856.1   AB 1728       896     Baa82
13811         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212           13856.2   A B 882       521     Am
13812         AB 1728          896      R & Ad212                     AB1728        896     RiM
13813         A B 1728         896      R&Ad212             13857     A B 1728      896     R & Ad212
13814         A B 1728         896      R212                13858     A B 1728      896     R212 2 1 2
13814.1       A B 1728         896      R212                13859     A B 1728      896     R&Ad
13815         A B 1728         896      R212                13860     A B 1728      896     R212
13816         A B 1728         896      R212                13861     A B 1728      896     R212
13817         A B 1728         896        212
                                        R212                13862     AB 1728       896     R !212
                                                                                                M
13817.1       A B 1728         896      R212                13863     A B 1728      896     R2
13818         A B 1728         896      R 212               13864     A B 1728              R "
              A B 1728                                      13864.1   AB1728                Ras
13818.1                        896      R 212
13819         A B 1728         896      R                   13865     A B 1728              R212
13820         AB1728           896      R & Ad2212          13868     A B 1728       896    R212212
13821         A B 1728          896     R&Ad 12             13870     A B 1728       896    Ad212
13822         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212           13871     A B 1728       896    Ad212
13823         A B 1728         896              212
                                        R & Ad212           13872     AB 1728        896    Ad212
13824         A B 1728          896     R & Ad              13873     A B 1728       896    Ad 212
13824.1       A B 1728          896                         13874     A B 1728       896    Ad
 13824.2      A B 1728          896      R212               13875     A B 1728       896    Ad212
                                                                                                212
 13824.3      A B 1728          896                         13876     AB 1728               Ad212
                                         R213
 13825         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212          13877     AB1728                Ad
              A B 1728                                      13878     A B 1728       896    Adaa
 13826                          896      R & Ad2212
 13827         A B 1728         896      R&Ad 1 2           13879     A B 1728       896    Ad212
 13828         A B 1728         896      R & A d 22 11 22   13880      AB 1728       896    Ad212
 13829         A B 1728         896      R&Ad               13881      A B 1728      896    Ad212
                                                                                                212
               A B 1728                  R212               13882     A B 1728       896    Ad212
 13830         A B 1728         896                         13883      AB1728        896    Ad 212
 13831         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212 212      13884      AB1728        896    Ad 212
 13832         A B 1728         896      R & Ad212          13885      A B 1728      896    Ad
 13833         A B 1728         896      R &M Ad            13886      A B 1728      896    Ad212
 13833.5       A B 1728         896      Ad                 13887      A B 1728      896    Ad212
 13834         A B 1728         896           Ad212
                                         R &212             13888      A B 1728      896    Ad213
 13834.1       A B 1728                  Ad                 13889      AB 1728       896        212
                                                                                            Ad212
 13835         A B 1728                  Ad™ 2 1 2          13890      A B 1728      896    Ad212
 13836         A B 1728                  R & A d 212        13891      A B 1728      896    Ad 212
 13837         A B 1728                  R & Ad2 1 2        13892      AB 1728       896    Ad
 13838         A B 1728                  R &212
                                              Ad            13893      A B 882       521    Am (as
 13839         A B 1728         896      Ad212                                               enacted by
 13840         A B 1728         896      Ad 212                                              Stats.
 13841         A B 1728                  Ad212                                               1969,
 13842         AB1728                    Ad212                                               Ch. 896) s»
 13843         AB1728                    Ad M                         A B 1728       896    Ad212
 13844         A B 1728                  A d212             13894     A B 1728       896    Ad212
 13844.5       A B 1728         896      Ad                 13895     AB 1728        896    Ad212
 13845         A B 1728         896      Ad212              13896     A B 1728       896    Ad212
 13846                          896      Ad212
 13847
               A B 1728
                                896      Ad212              13898     AB 1728        896    Ad212
 13848
               A B 1728
                                896         212
                                         Ad213              13899     AB1728                Ad212
 13849
               A B 1728
                                896      Ad212              13900     AB 1728                Ad212
               A B 1728
                                896      Ad 212             13901     A B 1728       896    R21282
 13849.1       AB1728                                       13901.1   A B 1245      1069    AdM
 13850         A B 1728         896      Ad                 13903     A B 1728
                                 896     R & Ad212                                   896     R212
 13851                                                      13904     A B 1728       896     R
  17
  39
     See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  82
     Ceases to he operative July 30, 1973.
 212
     Not operative.
      See Sec. 4 of Ch. re prior prevailing enactments.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                         317

                               EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                    Bill     Chapter                                   BUI     Chapter
 Section            No.       No.           Effect        Section      No.      No.           Effect
                                                                                              212
13905          AB 1728          896      R212             13993     A B 1728     896     Ad
13906          AB 1728          896      R212             13994     AB 1728      896     Ad2is

13907          AB 1728          896      R212             13995     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13907.1        AB 1728          896      R212             13996     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13910          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         13997     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13911          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         13998     AB 1728      896     Ad 2 1 2
13912          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         13999     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13913          A B 1728         896      Ad 2 1 2         14000     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13914          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14001     A B 1728     896     R&Ad213
13915          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14001.1   AB 1728      896     R212
13917          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14001.3   A B 1728     896     R212
13918          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14001.4   AB 1728      896     R212
13919          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14001.5   AB1728       896     R212
13930          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14002     A B 1728     896     R212
13931          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14020     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13932          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14021     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13933          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14022     A B 1728     896     R & Ad 2 1 2
13934          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14023     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13940          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14024     A B 1728     896     R & Ad 2 1 2
13941          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14025     A B 1728     896     R & Ad 2 1 2
13942          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14026     A B 1728     896     R & Ad 2 1 2
13943          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14027     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13944          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14028     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13945          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14029     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13946          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14030     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13947          AB1728           896      Ad 2 1 2         14031     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13948          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14032     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13949          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14033     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13950          AB 1728          896      Ad 2 1 2         14034     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13951          AB 1728          896      R&Ad212          14035     A B 1728     896     Ad™
13952          AB 1728          896      R212             14036     A B 1728     896     Ad212

13953          AB 1728          896      R212             14037     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13954          AB 1728          896      R212             14040     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13955          AB 1728          896      R212             14041     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13956          AB 1728          896      R212             14042     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13956.1        A B 1728         896      R 212            14043     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13958          AB 1728          896      R212             14044     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13959          AB 1728          896      R & Ad2212
                                                  12
                                                          14045     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13960          AB 1728          896      R&Ad 212         14046     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13961          AB 1728          896      R &   Ad         14047     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13962          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14050     AB1728       896     Ad 2 1 2
13963          AB 1728          896      Ad212
                                            212
                                                          14051     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13964          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14052     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13965          AB 1728          896      Ad 212           14053     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13966          AB 1728          896      Ad     212
                                                          14054     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13967          AB 1728          896      R&Ad             14055     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
                                            212
13968          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14056     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13968.5        AB 1728          896      Ad212            14057     A B 1728     896     R & Ad 2 1 2
13969          AB 1728          896      Ad               14058     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13970          AB 1728          896      R &212
                                               Ad212      14059     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
13971          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14060     A B 1728     896     R&Ad212
139S0          AB 1728          896      Ad 212           14061     A B 1728     896     R212
13981          A B 1728         896      Ad 212           14062     A B 1728     896     R212
13982          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14063     A B 1728     896     R212
13983          AB 1728          896      Ad 212           14064     A B 1728     896     R212
13984          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14065     A B 1728     896     R212
13985          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14066     A B 1728     896     R212
13986          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14067     A B 1728     896     Rsia

13987          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14068     A B 1728     896     R212
13988          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14070     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13989          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14071     AB1728       896     Ad 2 1 2
13990          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14072     A B 1728     896     Ad 2 1 2
13991          AB 1728          896      Ad               14073     AB1728       896     Ad 2 1 2
13992          AB 1728          896      Ad212            14074     AB1728       896     Ad 2 1 2
212
      See Sec. 4 of Cn. re prior prevailing enactments.
318                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                              EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                  Bill       Chapter                                BUI     Chapter
Section           No.         No.           Effect     Section      No.      No.          Effect

14075        A B 1728          896     Ad 2 1 2        14153     A B 1728    896      R&Ad 2 1 2
14080        A B 1728          896     Ad 2 M          14154     A B 1728    896      R&Ad 2212
                                                                                              12

14081        A B 1728          896     Ad 2 1 2        14155     A B 1728    896      R & Ad2 1 2
14082        AB 1728           896     Ad 2 1 2        14156     A B 1728    896      R&Ad 212
14083        AB1728            896     Ad 2 1 2        14157     A B 1728    896      R &82Ad '
             SB 190           1118     A m ( a s ad              SB 190     1118      Am212
                                       by Stats.       14158     AB 1728     896      Ad
                                       1969, Oh.       14159     AB1728      896      Ad 212
                                       896)            14160     AB1728      896      Ad 212
14100        AB 1728           896     Ad212           14180     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
14101        A B 882           521     Am (as          14181     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
                                       enacted by      14182     AB 1728     896      Ad 2 1 2
                                       Stats.          14183     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
                                       1969,O TCh,     14184     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
                                       896 ) 212       14185     AB1728      896      Ad 212
             A B 1728           896    R &   Ad        14186     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
14102        A B 1728           896    Ad212           14187     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
14103        AB 1728            896    Ad212 2 1 2     14188     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
14104        A B 1728           896    R&Ad 212        14189     A B 1728    896      Ad 2 1 2
14105        AB1728             896    R & Ad          14190     AB 1728     896      Ad 2 1 2
14106        AB 1728            896    Ad212           14191     A B 1728    896      Ad 212
14107        A B 1728           896    AdM212          14192     AB1728      896      Ad 212
14107.1      AB1728             896    R               14193     AB1728      896      Ad 2 1 2
14108        AB 1728            896    R & Ad212       14194     AB1728      896      A d2 1m2
14109        A B 1728           896    R &   Ad212     14195     AB1728      896      Ad
14110        AB 1728            896    Ad212 212       14196     AB 1728     896      Ad 2 1 2
14111        A B 1728           896    R & Ad          14197     AB 1728     896      Ad 2 1 2
14112        AB 1728            896    R&Ad™           14201     AB 1728     896      R212
14112.1      AB 1354          1548     Ad              14201.1   AB 882      521      Am 8 2
                                               212
14113        A B 1728           896    R&Ad                      AB 1728     896      R 212
14113.1      AB1728             896    R 212
                                                       14202     AB 1728     896      R 212
14114        A B 1728           896    R&Ad212         14203     AB 1728     896      R 212
14115        AB 1728            896    R 212           14204     AB 1728     896      R 212
             A B 1245         1069     Ad              14205     AB 1728     896      R 212
14116        A B 1728           896    Ra a            14206     AB 1728     896      R 212
14117        AB 1728            896    R212
                                                       14209     AB 1728     896      R 212
14118        AB 1728            896    Rm              14210     AB 1728     896      R&Ad212
14119        AB 1728          "896     R 212           14211     AB 1728     896      R&Ad212
14120        AB 1728            896    R&Ad212         14212     AB1728      896      R&Ad 22 11 *2
14121        AB 1728            896    R&Ad212         14213     AB 1728     896      R&Ad 2 1 2
14122        A B 1728           896    R & Ad 212      14214     AB1728      896      R&Ad
14123        AB 1728            896    R&Ad212         14215     AB 1728     896      R&Ad 2 1 2
14124        A B 1728           896    Raj,
                                                       14215.1   A B 1728    896      R212
14125        A B 1728           896    R & Ad 2 1 2
14125.1      AB1728             896    R 212           14216     AB 1728     896      R & Ad212
14126        A B 1728           896    R & Ad 212      14216.5   AB 1354    1548      Ad82
14127        A B 1728          '896    R 212           14217     AB 1728     896      R & Adaa
14127.1      AB 1728            896    R 212           14218     AB 165      165      Am (as
14128        AB 1728            896    R 212                1                         enacted by
14128.1      A B 1728           896    R 212                                          Stats.
14129        A B 1728           896    R 212                                          1969, Oh.
14130        AB1728             896    R & Ad 212                                     896). 212
14130.1      AB 1728            896    R 212                     A B 1728     896     R & Ad2 1 2
14131        A B 1728           896    R & Ad 212      14219     AB 1728      896     R&Ad
14132        AB1728             896    Ad 2 1 2        14220     AB 1728      896     R&Ad 2 1 2
14133        AB 1728            896    Ad 2 1 2        14221     AB 1728      896     Ad™
14134        AB 1728            896    Ad 2 1 2                               896     Ad 2 1 2
14135        AB 1728            896    Ad 2 1 2
                                                       14222     AB 1728
14151        A B 1728           896    R & Ad 212      14223     AB 1728      896     Ad 2 1 2
14151.1      AB1728             896    R 212           14224     AB 1728      896     Ad 2 1 2
14152        AB 1728            896    R&Ad212         14225     AB 1728      896     Ad 2 1 2
 82
187
    Not operative.
212
    Ceases to be operative
                        June 30, 1973.
   See Sec. 4 of Ch. re prior prevailing enactments.
                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                           319

                           EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                BUI       Chapter                                    BUI     Chapter
Section         No.         No.          Effect         Section      No.      No.           Effect
                                         213                                               212
14226       A B 1728        896      Ad                 14351.1   A B 1728     896     R
            A B 324        1382      Am (as             14352     A B 1728     896     R a232
                                                                                           3
                                     enacted            14353     A B 1728     896     R
                                     by Stats.          14354     A B 1728     896     Baa
                                     1969, Cb.          14355     A B 1728     896     R!aa
                                     896)               14355.1   AB1728       896     R 212
                                                                                         aa
14240       AB1728          896      Ad212212
                                                        14356     AB1728       896     R
14241       AB1728          896      Ad212              14357     A B 1728     896     Raa
14242       AB1728          896      Ad212              14358     AB 1728      896     R!a3
14243       AB 1728         896      Ad 2               14359     A B 1728     896     R 212
                                                                                         aa
14244       AB 1728         896      Ad212 »            14360     A B 1728     896     R
14245       A B 1728        896      Ad                 14361     AB1728       896     Ra2
14246       A B 1728        896      Ad212              14362     AB1728       896     R212
                                                                                         aa
14250       A B 1728        896      Rm
                                       212
                                                        14363     A B 1728     896     R 212
14251       AB1728          896      K212               14364     A B 1728     896     R
14253       A B 1728        896      R2 2               14365     AB 1728      896       m
                                                                                       R 212
14254       A B 1728        896      R 252
                                        "               14366     AB 1728      896     R212
14256       A B 1728        896      R212               14367     A B 1728     896     R
14258       AB 1728         896      R212               14368     A B 1728     896     R212
14258.1     AB 1728         896      R                  14369     A B 1728     896     Ra2
14259       A B 1728        896      R a 2212           14370     A B 1728     896     R & A d 22 11 22
14260       AB1728          896      Ad212              14371     A B 1728     896     R 212
                                                                                         &Ad
14261       AB 1728         896      Ad212              14371.1   A B 1728     896     R
14262       AB 1728         896      Ad212              14371.2   SB 247       962     Ad82 2 1 2
14263       A B 1728        896      Ad                 14372     AB 1728      896     R 212
                                                                                         &Ad
14263.5     AB1728          896      Ad212              14372.1   AB 1728      896     R
14264       A B 1728        896      Ad212212
                                                        14373     A B 1728     896     R & A d 22 11 2
14280       A B 1728        896      Ad212              14374     A B 1728     896     R&Ad »
14281       A B 1728        896      Ad212              14375     A B 1728     896     R & A d 22 11 22
14282       A B 1728        896      Ad212              14376     A B 1728     896     R &82 Ad
14283       A B 1728        896      Ad212                        A B 324     1382     Am212
14284       AB 1728         896      Ad212              14377     A B 1728     896     R
14285       AB 1728         896      Ad 212             14378     A B 1728     896     R212212
14300       AB 1728         896      Ad                 14390     A B 1728     896     Ad 212
14301       AB 1728         896      R & Ad™            14391     A B 1728     896     Ad 213
14302       AB 1728         896      R & A d 221212
                                                        14392     A B 1728     896     Ad
14303       AB 1728         896      R &2 Ad            14392.5   A B 1728     896     Ad212
14303.5     AB 1728         896      Ad "               14393     A B 1728     896     Ad212
14304       AB1728          896      R & A d 22 11 22   14394     A B 1728     896     Ad212
14305       AB 1728         896      R &82 Ad           14395     A B 1728     896     Ad212
14306       A B 165         165      Am                 14396     A B 1728     896     Ad212
            AB 1728         896      R212               14397     A B 1728     896     Ad212
14306.5     A B 1728        896      R212               14398     A B 1728     896     Ad212
14307       A B 1728        896      R212               14399     A B 1728     896     Ad 212
14308       A B 1728        896      R212               14400     AB 1728      896     Ad212 2
14309       AB 1728         896      R2M                14401     AB 1728       896    R&Ad "
14309.1     AB 1728         896      R212 2 1 2         14401.1   AB 1728       896    Ras
14310       A B 1728        896      R&Ad               14401.2   AB 1728       896    RS12

14310.5     AB 1728         896      R212 2 1 2         14401.5   AB 1728      896     R212
14311       AB1728          896      R&Ad 2 1 2         14402     AB 1728       896    R212
14312       A B 1728        896      R &212
                                         Ad             14403     A B 1728     896     R 212
14313       A B 1728        896      Ad     212
                                                        14403.1   A B 1728     896     R 212
                                                                                         a2
14314       AB 1728         896      R&Ad               14404     A B 1728     896     R
14315       AB 1728         896      Ad212              14405     A B 1728      896    Raa
14316       AB 1728         896      Ad212              14406     A B 1728      896    R2la
14330       AB 1728         896      Ad212              14407     A B 1728     896     R212
14331       AB1728          896      Ad212              14408     A B 1728      896    Raa
14332       A B 1728        896      Ad212              14409     A B 1728      896    RS12
14333       AB1728          896      Ad212              14410     A B 1728      896
14334       A B 1728        896      Ad212                                             R232
14335       AB 1728         896      Ad212              14411     A B 1728     896
14336       SB 247          962      Ad                 14412     A B 1728     896     R212
14351       AB 1728         896      R212               14413     A B 1728     896     Raa
82
   Not operative.
«"See Sec. 4 of Ch. re prior prevailing enactments.
320                       SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                             EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                                       Bill      Chapter
 Section          No.        No.            Effect      Section          No.        No.          Effect

14414        AB1728          896       R 212           17305.7      AB 606          784      Ad, S* u
14415        AB 1728         896      R212             17405        SB 635         1104      Am
14440        A B 1728        896      Ad 2 1 2         17503        AB 2293        1518      Am
14441        AB 1728         896      Ad 212           17507.5      AB 606          784      Ad, S* M
14442        AB 1728         896      Ad 212           17507.6      AB 606          784      Ad, S* »
14443        A B 1728        896      Ad 212           17521        AB2300         1519      Ad.
14444        AB 1728         896      Ad 212           17522        AB2300         1519      Ad
14445        AB 1728         896      Ad 212           17522.5      AB2300         1519      Ad
14446        AB 1728         896      Ad 213           17523        AB2300         1519      Ad
14447        AB 1728         896      Ad 212           17524        AB2300         1519      Ad
14448        AB 1728         896      Ad 212           17525        AB2300         1519      Ad, S
14449        AB 1728         896      Ad 212           17526        AB 2300        1519      Ad
14450        AB 1728         896      Ad 213           17527        AB 2300        1519      Ad
14659.5      AB 1367         510       Ad              17528        AB2300         1519      Ad
15005        AB 387          136      Am, SM           17551.1      SB 180          263      Ad
15005.5      AB 387          138      Am, S "          17601.1      SB 172         1494      A19m,S*
15005.6      A B 387         138      Am, S "          17602        S B 64          331      R19
15352.5      A B 242         796      Am               17602.5      S B 64          331      Rw
15457        SB 739         1019      Am               17603        SB 64           331      R 18
15517        SB 120          333      gas              17603.5      SB 64           331      Am
             AB     3        997      Am*68            17604        SB 64           331      R Mu
             SB 1150        1366      Am 1 2 8         17605        SB 64           331      R
15518        SB 120          333      Am 2 8           17654.5      AB 606          784      Am, S* "
             AB    74       1523      Am 1 8 3         17655.5      A B 606         784      Am, S* «
15802        AB 1312        1071       ga>             17656        AB 606          784      Am, S* M
15802.5      AB 1312        1071      Ad 5 9           17660        AB 606          784      Am, S* w-
15805        S B 446         161      Am               17663.7      AB 606          784       g * 19
15951        AB1992         1093      Am               17663.8      AB 606          784      Ad, S* 1 9
15953        AB 1992        1093      Am               17664        A B 606         784      Am, S* w»
15955.1      SB 1201        1178      Ad*              17665        A B 606         784      Am, S*
15957        S B 1037       1145      Am               17665.5      A B 606         784      Am, S* 19
16175        SB 773          274      Am*22            17666.2      AB 606          784      Am, S* ulft
                                                       17668        A B 606         784      Ad, S*
Div. 12,                                               17920        A B 606         784      Am, S* M»
Ch. 2,                                                 17921        AB 606          784      Am, S* w
Art. 5.1                                               17922        A B 606         784      Am, S*
 (heading) AB 186             534     Am&RN            17924        AB 606          784      Am, S* Mu
Div. 12,                                               17925        A B 606         784      Am, S* 19
Ch.2,                                                  17925.5      AB 606          784      Am, S* u
Art. 5.7                                               17951        A B 606         784      Am, S*
 (heading) AB 186            534      Ad ( R N )       18054.6      SB 795         1434      Am
16256      AB 631            235      Ad               18060        SB 1305        1407      Am
16554.5    AB 1152           619      Am               18062        SB 1305        1407      Am 18
16643      A B 1779         1282      Am               18101.5      A B 606         784      R, S*
16652      AB 396            754      Am               18101.6      AB 606          784      Ad 1 9( R N ) ,
16701      SB 386            972      Am                                                     S*
16803      A B 1877         1397      Am               18102        A B 1069         618     Am
16803.2    S B 1201         1178      Ad*                           A B 606          784     R&Ad,
16859      A B 1387         1392      Am                                                      g * 19
16860      AB1387           1392      Am                            SB 632         1113      Am
17301      AB 606            784      g* ia>          18102.2       AB 606          784      Ad, S* w
17303.5    AB 606            784      Am, S* 19'      18102.4       AB 606          784      Am & R N ,
                                      134
                                                                                             Ad, S* w
17303.6      A B 606         784      Ad, S* 1B       18102.6       AB 606           784     A d , S* »
17303.7      AB 606          784      Ad, S* "        18102.8       AB 606           784     A d , S* »
17305        SB 635         1104      Am              18102.9       AB 606           784     Ad, S* »
   * Effective immediately.
 "19S e e Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  22
     Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
  23
     Certain real property exchanges by junior college districts to be completed on or before July 1, 1970.
  69
     Effective  only until July 1, 1975.
     Effective until July 1, 1970.
12* Provisions of Section 17303.5 as amended by Section 3.5 of act, shall supersede and control over provi-
126
          sions of subdivision (b) of Item 321 of Budget Act of 1969 (Statutes of 1969, Chapter 355).
528
     Subdivision (c) of Section 17301 shall be inoperative during the 1969-1970 fiscal year.
163
     Effective  until July 1. 1971.
     Effective only until July 1, 1975; section shall remain in effect regardless of repeal or expiration of
212
         Section  15517.
     See Sec. 4 of Ch. re prior prevailing enactments.
                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                         321

                          EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                Bill     Chapter                                      Bill     Chapter
Section         No.        No.         Effect        Section          No.        No.         Effect
                                                u
18102.10 A B     606        784     Ad, S*          19695        SB    531     1578      S*
18251    SB      635      1104      Am                           AB    938     1596      S*
18251.1  SB      635      1104      Am              19696        SB    531     1578      S*
18251.2  SB      635      1104      Am                           AB    938     1596      S*
18251.3  SB      635      1104      Am              19699        SB    531     1578      S*
18251.4  SB      635      1104      Am                           AB    938     1596
            AB1998        1588      Am              19699.1      SB    531     1578      s*
18252       SB 635        1104      Am                           AB    938     1596      s*
18252.1     SB 635        1104      Am              19699.2      SB    531     1578      s*
18252.2     SB 635        1104      Am                           AB    938     1596      s*
18252.3     SB 635        1104      Am              19699.3      SB    531     1578      s*
   ,        AB 2271       1573      Am                           AB    938     1596      s*
18252.4     SB 635        1104      Am              19699.4      SB    531     1578      s*
18252.5     SB 635        1104      Am                           AB    938     1596      s*
            AB 2271       1573      R               19756        AB    186       534     s*m
                                                                                         A
18252.6     A B 2272      1590      Ad              19806        AB    186       534     Am
18253       SB 635        1104      Am              20001        AB    186       534     R
18254       SB 635        1104      Am              20002        AB    186       534     R
18351.5     A B 606        784      Ad, S* »•       20003        AB    186       534     R
                                    75, 76
                                                    20004        AB    186       534     R
18460       A B 606         784     Am, S* w        20005        AB    186       534     R
18461       A B 186         534     R (as ad        20006        AB    186       534     R
                                    by Stats.       20006.5      AB    186       534     R
                                    1961, Ch.       20007        AB    186       534     R
                                    809)            20021.5      SB    759      1022     Am
                                    A m (as ad      20081        SB    508      1481     S
                                    by Stats.       20081.1      SB    508      1481     Ad
                                    1961, Ch.       20504        SB    636       636     Am
                                    887)            20601        AB    186       534     R (asad
18751       SB 840        1107      R                                                    by Stats.
18752       SB 840        1107      R                                                    1967, Ch,
18753       SB 840        1107      R                                                    1536)
18754       SB 840        1107      R               20602        A B 186         534     R (as ad
18755       SB 840        1107      R                                                    by Stats.
18756       SB 840        1107      R                                                    1967, Ch.
18801       SB 1393       1577      Ad                                                   1536)
18802       SB 1393       1577      Ad              20603        A B 186         534     R (as ad
18803       SB 1393       1577      Ad                                                   by Stats.
18804       SB 1393       1577      Ad                                                   1967, Ch.
19436       SB 134           16     S                                                    1536)
Div. 14,                                            20604        A B 186         534     R (as ad
Ch. 10                                                                                   by Stats.
 (19551                                                                                  1967, Ch.
et seq.)    A B 783         613     S»                                                   1536)
19590       A B 170         792     S 61
                                                    20605        A B 186         534     R (as ad
19591.7     AB 186          534     R                                                    by Stats.
19594       SB 282          119     Am                                                   1967, Ch.
19611       SB 134           16     S                                                     1536)
19619       SB 284         157      Am                                           534     R (as ad
19656.5     A B 186        534      R               20606        A B 186
                                                                                         by Stats.
19691       SB 531        1578      S*                                                    1967, Ch.
            A B 938       1596      S*                                                    1536)
19692       SB 531        1578
            A B 938       1596      s*              20621        A B 186         534     R (as ad
19693       SB 531        1578      s*                                                    by Stats.
            AB 938        1596      s*                                                    1967, Ch.
19694       SB 531        1578      s*                                                    1536)
            AB 938        1596      s*                            SB 637         637      g«
                                    s*
  * Effective immediately.
 16
    Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
 « Act effective only until July 1, 1970.
 « Effective until June 30, 1972.
 61 Operative until July 1, 1971.
 ?5 Section shall cease to be operative on July 1, 1971.
 ™ Report to Legislature re office of county superintendent of schools on or before 30th calendar day of
        1971 Regular Session.


       11—L-2180
322                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                              EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                   Bill      Chapter                                         Bill      Chapter
 Section *         No.        No.          Effect          Section           No.        No.           Effect

20622         A B 186          534      R (as ad         23465          A B 292         797       Ad*
                                        by Stats.        23608          A B 1511       1351       Am
                                        1967, Oh.        23610          A B 1511       1351       Am
                                        1536)            23619          S B 19         1288       R*
              SB 637           637      S»               23620          S B 542        1406       Ad
20623         AB 186           534      R (as ad         23753          S B 475         390       Am
                                        by Stats.        23754          A B 2219       1570       Am
                                        1967, Ch.                       SB 192         1605       Am78188
                                        1536)            23754.2        S B 192        1605       Ad
              S B 637          637      S"               23754.3        A B 2213       1492       Am
20624         A B 186          534      R (as ad         23755          S B 475         390       Am
                                        by Stats.        23755.5        A B 623        1239       Ad
                                        1967, Oh.        23756          S B 723        1018       Am
                                        1536)            23758.05       A B 186         534       Ad ( R N )
              SB    637        637      Am343            23758.2        A B 186         534       Am&RN
20631         SB    636        636      Ad 3                                                      (as ad by
20632         SB    636        636      Ad 3                                                      Stats
20633         SB    636        636      Ad                                                        1968, Ch.
20634         SB    636        636      Ad 33                                                     476)
20635         SB    636        636      Ad               23802         SB    19        1288       Am*
20636         SB    636        636      Ad 3             23803         SB    19        1288       Am*
20751         AB    606        784      g * 10, 128      23804         S B 734         1106       Am
20751.1       AB    606        784      Am,              23805         S B 734         1106       Am
                                        fl* 19, 126                    SB    19        1288       Am*
             AB       5      1441       R                24053.1       S B 541         1405       Ad
20800        SB     983      1047       Am19                           S B 542         1406       Ad
20951        AB     606       784       S*               24053.2       SB 542          1406       Ad
21001        AB     606       784       S* 1 9           24053.3       S B 542         1406       Ad
21116        AB     186       534       R (as ad         24053.7       S B 608          996       Ad
                                        by Stats.        24054         S B 19          1288       Am*
                                        1967, Oh.        24055         SB    19        1288       Ad*
                                        1536)            24056         SB    19        1288       Ad*
21117         A B 186          534      R (as ad         24057         SB    19        1288       Ad*
                                        by Stats.        24205         S B 579          993       Ad
                                        1967, Oh.        24207         SB 475           390       Am
                                        1536)            24320         SB 476           391       R
21301        AB 1016          844       Am               24321         S B 476          391       R
21320        AB 1878          921       Ad               24322         S B 476          391       R
21330        A B 2319         945       Ad               24323         SB 476           391       R
21331        AB2319           945       Ad               24324         SB 476           391       R
21702.1      S B 123          250       Ad*              24503.1       A B 2357        1100       Am
21703        SB 612           684       S*               24518         AB 186           534       Am
21751        AB 2056          600       Am*              24529         AB 2357         1100       Am
             SB 1160         1174       Am*              24536         A B 2357        1100       Am
21807        A B 2056         600       Am*              24753         A B 1797         657       S*
22504.5      SB 810          1465       Ad               24754         A B 2263        1097       Ad
22505        AB 1286         1427       Ad*              25201         AB 1511         1351       Am
22508        AB 1286         1427       Ad* 151          25207         A B 1511        1351       Ad
22509        A B 1286        1427       Ad* 1B1          25411.2       A B 186          534       R
22606        SB 624          1125       Am87             25411.3       A B 186          534       R
22635        AB 1286         1427       Ad*              25411.4       A B 186          534       R
22636        AB 1286         1427       Ad*              25413.45      S B 321          495       Ad 1
22700        SB 647          1497       Am               25413.6       A B 221            3       Ad*
23057        AB 1532          886       Am               25416         A B 1373         623       Am
23101        AB 219          1224       Ad 3             25431.5       A B 186          534       Am
  *1 Effective immediately.
   8
     Effective until July 1, 1969.
     Contingent effect.
 19
     Operative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year.
 «Effective until June 30, 1972.
 78
 OT
     Operative commencing with 1970-71 academic year.
     Operative on January 1, 1971.
»* On and after July 1, 1973, the maximum tax rates prescribed by Section 20751 and by any other appli-
         cable provisions of this code shall have no force or effect and shall be inoperative with respect to anv
        school district.                                                                              * »•.»««»
«a Effective until 91st day after adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
«Trustees authorized through spring term of 1973 to waive tuition fees for certain nonresident foreign
        students.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                     323

                             EDUCATION CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                                   BUI      Chapter
Section           So.         No.         Effect     Section          No.        No.         Effect

25451    SB 1128             1166     Am            29018.5      S B 1148      1409      Am
25451.3  SB 1128             1166     Am            31020        AB 823        1538      gm
25451.7  SB 1128             1166     Am            31021        A B 823       1538      gm
25451.9  SB 354               733     g * 78        31022        AB 823        1538      gm
25452    SB 354               733     g * ra7 8     31023        A B 823       1538      gm
25452.1  SB 354               733     Ad* 7 8       31024        A B 823       1538      gm
25452.2  SB 354               733     Ad*           31025        A B 823       1538      gm
25452.3  SB 1128             1166     Am            31026        A B 823       1538      Am 171
25457.3  AB 169               791     Am            31226        SB 1072       1336      Ad
25457.8  AB 169               791     Am            31226.1      SB 1072       1336      Ad
25515    SB 761               395     Am            31226.2      S B 1072      1336      Ad
25524    SB 164              1579     Ad*           31226.3      SB 1072       1336      Ad
25524.3  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31226.4      S B 1072      1336      Ad
25524.7  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31226.5      S B 1072      1336      Ad
25525    SB 164              1579     Ad*           31226.6      SB 1072       1336      Ad
25525.3  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31226.7      SB 1072       1336      Ad
25525.7  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31243        SB 1023       1335      Am
25526    SB 164              1579     Ad*           31247        SB 1023       1335      Am
25526.3  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31264        AB 937        1258      Am*
25526.7  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31291        A B 1286      1427      Ad*
25527    SB 164              1579     Ad*           31292        A B 1286      1427      Ad*
25527.3  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31293        AB 1286       1427      Ad*
25527.7  SB 164              1579     Ad*           31294        AB 1286       1427      Ad*
25528    SB 164              1579     Ad*           31900        S B 1004        256     Am
25528.3  SB 164              1579     Ad*           32001        A B 1035      1493      Ad
25528.7  SB 164              1579     Ad*           32011        AB 1035       1493      Ad
25541.5  AB 981               591     g * 37, 88    32012        A B 1035      1493      Ad
25541.7  AB 981               591     Am* 37>»»     32013        A B 1035      1493      Ad
25545.29 SB 501               194     Am*           32014        AB1035        1493      Ad
25545.36 SB 501               194     Am*           32025        A B 1035      1493      Ad
25601.1  SB 725              1331     Am*           32028        A B 1035      1493      Ad
25610    SB 840              1107     R             32029        A B 1035      1493      Ad
25851.1  SB 725              1331     Am*           32029.5      A B 1035      1493      Ad
27129    AB 236               535     Ad            32030        A B 1035      1493      Ad
27509    AB 186               534     R             32031        A B 1035      1493      Ad
28100    A B 2056             600     Am*           32032        A B 1035      1493      Ad
28453    AB 2056              600     Am*           32033        A B 1035       1493     Ad
29007    SB 1148             1409     Am            32034        A B 1035      1493      Ad
29007.3  SB 1148             1409     Am            32035        AB 1035       1493      Ad
29007.5  SB 1148             1409     Am            32036        AB 1035        1493     Ad

 * Effective immediately.
 37
    Certain increases in maximum rate of tax effective until end of seventh consecutive year expiring
 88
          July 1, 1971.
    Certain increases in maximum rate of tax effective until end of fifth consecutive year expiring July
 78
          1, 1971.
171
    Operative until December 31, 1972.
    Operative only until December 31, 1973.
324                     SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                                      ELECTIONS CODE
                Bill     Chapter                                         Bill    Chapter
Section         No.        No.         Effect        Section             No.       No.        Effect

  42        AB    98        106     S                 8920        AB       232   1225      Am, S
  49        A B 587          75     Am                8920.5      AB       232   1225      Ad ( T i t l e
  58        A B 1515        511     Ad                                                     purports
  61        A B 1402        367     Ad                                                     to A m ) , S
  62        A B 1402        367     Ad                9014.5      A B 2251         454     Ad
 213.1      A B 618         810     Am                9160        A B 2250         453     Am
 224        A B 1353        870     R&Ad              9170        A B 2251         454     Am
 310        A B 159         402     Am                9210        AB     8           1     S*
            A B 1052       1543     Am                            A B 2250         453     Am
  321       A B 159         402     Am               9242.5       A B 2253         455     Ad
            A B 1052       1543     Am, S            9334         A B 2249         467     Am
  381       A B 1353        870     Am               9444         A B 2250         453     Am
  383       A B 618         810     Am               9601         A B 2252         783     Am
  456.5     S B 1363        607     Am              10001         A B 1823         913     Am
  456.6     S B 1363        607     Am              10002         A B 1823         913     Am
  459       A B 577         151     Am              10003         A B 1823         913     Am
 2603       S B 441         159     Am              10004         A B 1823         913     Am
 3565.5     AB    52       1520     Ad              10012.5       S B 339          170     Am
 3566.3     A B 356        1383     Ad              10202         A B 661          575     S
 3706       AB2229          940     Am              10202.5       A B 661          575     Ad
 3706.5     A B 2229        940     Ad              10219.2       A B 661          575     Ad
 3707       A B 2229        940     Am              10231         S B 442          160     Am
 4002       A B 1825        774     Am              11800         AB    98         106     Am'
 4004       A B 1825        774     Am              11801         AB    98         106     Am
 4008       A B 2229        940     Am              11829         A B 868          835     Ad (to
 4009       A B 2229        940     Am                                                     D i v . 8,
 4009.1     A B 2229        940     Am                                                     Ch.2,
 4009.2     A B 2229        940     Am                                                     Art. 2)
 4011       A B 2229        940     Am               11835        AB    98         106     Ad
 4012       A B 2229        940     Am               14290        A B 469          461     Am
 4051       A B 2229        940     Am               14427        A B 2223         779     Am
 4051.1     A B 2229        940     Am               14438.5      A B 2223         779     Ad
 4051.2     A B 2229        940     Am               14621.5      S B 1004         256     Am
 4051.3     A B 1825        774     Am               14800        AB2278           557     Am
 4052       A B 2229        940     Am               15089        A B 2228         781     Am
 6113       A B 1515        511     Am               15110        A B 2228         781     Am
 6260       A B 1821       1556     Ad               15151        A B 2228         781     Am
 6261       A B 1821       1556     Ad               15152        A B 2228         781     Am
 6262       A B 1821       1556     Ad               15154        A B 2228         781     Am
 6263       A B 1821       1556     Ad               15158        A B 2228         781     Am
 6502.5     S B 268         679     Ad               15164        A B 2228         781     Am
 6554       S B 1113       1160     Am               15222        A B 2228         781     Am
 6830       A B 708         948     Am               15224        A B 2228         781     Am
 6833       S B 1052       1151     Am               15250        A B 2228         781     Am
 6860.5     S B 268         679     Ad               15251        A B 2228         781     Am
 6862       A B 1515        511     Am               15252        A B 2228         781     Am
 8103       A B 2253        455     Am               15271        A B 2228         781     Am
 8514.5     A B 2251        454     Ad               15793        A B 2223         779     Am
 8603       A B 232        1225     R, S             15912.1      A B 2225         939     Ad
 8664       A B 232        1225     Am,g             17902        A B 1824         914     Am
 8669       A B 2251        454     Am               22540        A B 1676         438     Am
 8710       A B 232        1225     Am,S             23520        A B 1676         438     Am
 8710.5     A B 232        1225     Ad (Title        23522        A B 1676         438     Am
                                    purports         23606        A B 1676         438     Am
                                    to A m ) , S     25301        S B 1261        1469     R&Ad
 8742.5     A B 2253        455     Ad                                                      (RN)
 8820       A B 2242       1317     Am               25302        S B 1261        1469     Am & RN,
 8823.5     A B 2241       1316     Ad 4 8                                                 Ad ( R N )
 8834       A B 2249        467     Am               25302.5      S B 1261        1469     Am&RN
 * Effective immediately.
 «Not applicable to a county containing 20 or more Assembly districts.
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                           325

                                ELECTIONS CODE—Continued
                      Bill    Chapter                             Bill   Chapter
Section               No.      No.       Effect    Section        No.     No.       Effect
                                         82
25500          SB 1261        1469      Am        27510      A B 2229     940      Am
               AB 1787        1470      R         27510.1    A B 2229     940      Am
27204          A B 2229        940      Am        27510.2    A B 2229     940      Am
27204.5        AB 2229         940      Ad        27511      A B 2229     940      Am
27205          AB 2229         940      Am        29227      AB    98     106      Ad
27501          AB 2229         940      Am        30122      S B 1035     497      R
27504          AB 1825         774      Am
 M
     Not operative.



                                         EVIDENCE CODE
                      Bill    Chapter                             Bill   Chapter
Section               No.      No.       Effect    Section        No.      No.      Effect

 1014     SB 871              1436      Am         1560      SB    603     199     Am
 1042     SB   66             1412      Am         1561      SB    603     199     Am
 1551     SB 1078              646      Am         1565      SB    603     199     Am
Div. 11,
Ch.2,
Art. 4
(heading) SB 603                199     Am
326                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                                          FINANCIAL CODE
                  Bill      Chapter                                Bill    Chapter
Section           No.         No.           Effect     Section     No.      No.          Effect

  110        AB 1749          1280       Am             3377.1   AB 1695     531     Ad
  200        AB 387            138       Am, S "        5025     AB 387      138     Am, S "
  210        A B 387           138       Am, S17"      Div. 2,
  256        A B 387           138       Am, S         P t . 1,
  270        AB 1437           877       Am            Ch.2
Div. 1,                                                (heading) AB 387      138     Am, S "
Ch.4                                                    5200     AB 387      138     Am, S»
(Title)      A B 1749         1280  Am                  5251     AB 387      138     Am, 17S 1 '
  505        A B 1011          843  Am                  5253     AB 387      138     B, S
  534.1      A B 1011          843  Ad                 Div. 2,
  540        AB 1749          1280  Ad                 P t . 1,
  541        A B 1749         1280  Ad                 Ch.2,
  542        A B 1749         1280  Ad                 Art. 3
  543        AB 1749          1280  Ad                 (heading) AB 387      138     Am, S "
   544       AB 1749          1280  Ad                  6416     AB 727      179     Ad*
  545        AB 1749          1280   Ad                 6456     AB 763      612     B&Ad
  546        AB 1749          1280   Ad                 6456.1   AB 763      612     Ad
   547       A B 1749         1280  Ad                   6506    AB 727      179     Am*
  .662       AB 2346           946   Am                 6510.6   AB 727      179     Am*
   690       AB 1429           876   Ad                  6510.7  AB 727      179     Ad*
  691        AB 1429           876   Ad                  6511.1  AB 727      179     Ad*
   692       A B 1429          876   Ad                  6553    AB 727      179     Am*
 ,693        A B 1429          876   Ad                  6559.1  AB 727      179     Am*
   694       AB1429            876   Ad                  6559.2  AB 727      179     Ad*
  695        AB 1429           876   Ad                  6564    AB 727      179     Am*
   696       A B 1429          876   Ad                  6702    AB 1970     493     Am
   697       A B 1429          876   Ad                          AB 717     1342     Am
   698       A B 1429          876   Ad                  6704    AB 717     1342     Am
   769       AB1681            892   Am                  6713    AB 717     1342     Am
   772       AB 1703           895   Ad                  7184    AB 1447     879     Am
   773       AB 1970           493   Ad                  7187    AB 1447     879     Am
   774       AB 1970           493   Ad                  7650    AB 763      612     Am
 1209        AB 1970           493   Am                  8403    AB 763      612     K&Ad
 1227        AB 1970           493   Am                  8450    AB 763      612     S
 1250        AB 1645           890   Am                  8451    AB 763      612     S
 1257        AB1645            890   Am                  8452    AB 763      612     s
 1300        A B 1970          493   Am                  8453    AB 763      612     s
 1332        AB 1645           890   Ad                  8454    AB 763      612     s
 1336        AB 1970           493   Am                  8455    AB 763      612     s
 1360        A B 571           150   Am                  8456    AB 763      612     s
             A B 1970          493   Am                  8457    AB 763      612     s
 1413        A B 1970          493 1 Am                  8458    AB 763      612     s
 1430        AB1645            890   Am                  8459    AB 763      612     s
 1431        AB 1645           890   Am                  8460    AB 763      612     s
 1437        A B 1645          890   Am                  8461    A B 763     612     s
 1670        AB 1011           843   Am                  8462    AB 763      612     s
 1756        AB 1752          1281   Am, S               8463    AB 763      612     s
 1756.1      AB 1752          1281   S                   8500    AB 763      612     s
 1756.2      AB 1752          1281   Ad 25               8501    AB 763      612     s
 1900        A B 1654          327   Am 25               8502    AB 763      612     s
 1902        AB 1654           327   Am                  8503    AB 763      612     s
 3223        A B 1970          493   Am                  8504    AB 763      612     s
 3224        A B 1970          493   Am                  8505    AB 763      612     s
 3370        A B 1695          531   Am                  8506    AB 763      612     s
 3371        AB 1695           531   Am                  8507    AB 763      612     s
 3372        AB 1695           531   Am                  8508    AB 763      612     s
 3375        AB 1695           531   Am                  8509    AB 673      612     s
  * Effective immediately,
 "See
 25
        Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
    Operative on January 2, 1970.
                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                       327

                              FINANCIAL CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                                   Bill   Chapter
Section           No.         No.          Effect      Section        No.     No.         Effect

 8800        AB 1518           581      Am            21200.5    SB    125      25     Am&KN
11212        AB 727            179      Ad*                                             (as ad by
12304        A B 766           223      Am                                             Stats.
15807        A B 765           222      Am                                             1968, Oh.
17406        AB 767            224      Am                                             563)
18610        A B 768           225      Am            21200.7    SB 125         25     Ad ( R N )
18611        AB 387            138      Am, S "       22051      A B 1032      208     Am* 17
18624.2      A B 1405          873      Am            22410      A B 387       138     Am, S
18669.1      AB 1405           873      Am            24409      A B 387       138     Am, S "

 * Effective immediately.
 " See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
328                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                                     FISH AND GAME CODE
                   Bill    Chapter                                          Bill     Chapter
Section            No.       No.          Effect         Section       ,.   No.       No.           Effect

                                                                                                    18
   45           SB 858        689      Am                 4805         SB 513          987     Ad
  101           SB 210         55      Am10               4806         S B 513         987     Ad wu
  200           AB 353        110      S* l e             4807         S B 513         987     A d1 8
  201           A B 353       110      S *M               4808         SB 513          987     Ad
  202           A B 353       110      S*M                6506         AB 2232        1576     g203
  203           AB 353        110      S*                 6506.5       AB 2232        1576     A d , S 20 ' ™
  204           AB 353        110      g*le               7709         SB 858          689     Ad
  205           A B 353       110         w               7852         A B 2232       1576     S2M
  206           A B 353       110      s*
                                       S*   16
                                                          7852.5       AB 2232        1576     A d , S 205 ' "»
                                            19                                                 S 204
  207           AB 353        110      S*                 7890         AB 2232        1576
  208           A B 353       110      g*18               7890.5       A B 2232       1576     A d , S 206 ' m
                                            18
  209           AB 353        110      S*                 8042         AB 2232        1576     S 203
  210           AB 353        110      g*16               8042.5       AB 2232        1576     A d , S 20 ' "»
                                       g*16                                                    (3203
  211           AB 353        110                         8044         AB 2232        1576
  212           A B 353       110      g*16               8044.5       AB2232         1576     A d , S 20 ' ^ 2
  213           AB 353        110      g*16               8045         AB 2232        1576     g203
  215           AB 353        110      g*ie               8045.5       AB 2232        1576     A d , S 20 ' M a
  216           AB 353        110      g*16               8046         AB 565         1614     Am,S
  217           AB 353        110      g*16               8150         AB 564         1384     R
  218           AB 353        110      g*18               8150.5       AB 564         1384     Am
  219           AB 353        110      g*l6               8151         AB 564         1384     R
  220           AB 353        110      g*le 1 6           8152         AB 564         1384     Am
  221           A B 353       110      Am*                8154         A B 564        1384     Am
  222           AB 353        110      S* 1 6             8155         A B 564        1384     Am
  317           SB 1231       695      Ad                 8156         AB 564         1384     Am
  327           AB 636        813      Am                 8157         AB 564         1384     R
  454           AB 636        813      Am 189             8158         A B 564        1384     R
  732           AB2106       1593      Ad*                8254         AB 2232        1576     g203
 1352           SB 255        355      S*                 8254.5       AB 2232        1576     A d , S 20 ' v*
 1528           S B 516       988      Am                 8276         AB 216            47    Am
 2006           SB 1231       695      S                  8304         SB 858          689     Am
 2303           A B 1939     1092      Am                 8306         AB 2232        1576     S 207
 2366           SB 858        689      Am"                8306.5       AB 2232        1576     A d , S 2 *'       m

 3002           SB 1231       695      S                  8389         AB 683           817    Ad
 3003.5         AB1407       1075      Ad 18              8780         AB 564         1384     Am
 3036           AB 1784      1285      Am                 8831         AB 998          488     Am
 3080           AB 1784      1285      Am18               8832         A B 998          488    Am
 3082           AB 1784      1285      R«                 9001         AB 998           488    R
 3271           AB 319         299     Am                 9001.5       AB 998           488    Am
 3277           SB 1230       574      Am                 9001.6       AB 998           488    Am
 3517           SB 1237       696      Am 18              9050         AB 998           488    Am
 3651           AB 1784      1285      Am18              10655         SB 205          116     R
 3652           AB 1784      1285      Am                10656         SB 205          116     R
 3653           AB1784       1285      RM                10664         AB     1          56    Am*
 3658           AB 1784      1285      R18                             SB 974          693     Am
 3659           AB 1784      1285      R 18              10666         SB 1423         675     Ad
 3800           AB 31»         299     Am*
 3950           SB 513        987      Am                10834         SB 205          116     R
 3960           AB 873         383     Ad                10839         SB 205          116     R
 4150           SB 513        987      Am                10907         AB      1         56    Ad*
 4189           SB 513        987      Ad                10908         AB     1          56    Ad*
 4300           A B 873        383     R                 10909         SB 1423         675     Ad
 4800           SB ,513       987      Ad18              10910         SB 974          693     Ad
 4801           SB 513        987      Ad18              12004         S B 947        1043
 4802           SB 513        987      Ad18                                                    Am
 4803           SB 513        987      Ad18              14000         AB 563           361    Am
 4804           S B 513       987      Ad18              14001         AB 563           361    Am

  * Effective immediately.
 16
 18
    Effective  until 91st day after final adjournment of 1973 Regular Session.
    Operative on July 1, 1970.
 <*•
 24
      Operative   July 1, 1970.
 14
    Subdivision (b) effective until 61st day after adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
    No force or effect until 61st day after final adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
™>
189
      Effective only until July 1, 1972.
203
    Operative on effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969.
201
    Inoperative   until July 1, 1972.
206
    Inoperative until April 1, 1972.
206
    Effective  only  until April 1, 1972.
207
    Operative April 1, 1970.
    Inoperative until March 1, 1972.
^Operative March 1, 1970.
«w Effective only until March 1, 1972.
                   05O5O5O5S5Olrfi>£.>(iL£.*.4**-*->t'rf»t^                                 tt**->f'tf*C005CO05OSCOO5CO05OSC00SC0C00SO5eO0S0SCOCOCO05l->l-'
                   CTCTh^MI-»C5tOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtN5tOtO                                      t0l-'l-'l-i-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-l-lC5C5O5a5O5C5O5C5CJlCTL-»h-»h^tO©lt».                                                            rf^to
                   © © © © © o i ^ M © © © © © © © © ©                                        o K o o n o i o i o i a o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o B D O t s o o                                                          © - i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           coco        -j
                   OOCT03tOa5MOIO©00-qc5CT^WtOI-'                                           ©©7l-i>^ostOM©K^cotOM©-i©CThScotoH»©—IMCO©#.MI-'OI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      05
                     CTCTMi. H*                                                                        CT                                      CT
0
   n> "*
            SSg
OS =3              50to-to-to-to-to-00 00 5050 72 00 «3 05 50 5000 50to-50 CO 50to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-to-72
                                                                                                                                                        00to-to-> -

                   wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww                                                                                                                                                        WWWW
      l§o||3|
                                     K t o ^                                                                                             •-* h-»to t o ^ t o
                   t O t O - 1 4 ^ O 5 © © C O C O O 5 C O C 0 C O C O C0COCCC0© _ CO CO CO CO CO CO CC CO 05 05 CO CO CO CO CO CO CO CO tO CO t O t O - 1 0 5 - 1 Co
                   -IDStOMCOOOOMh-'h-'Mh-'l-'h-iMh-iietQOOOOOOIsSIOtOtOIOtOtOlOtOtOtOtOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           gg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5©MtO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J©^CX>
      3 « n CD-
                   tS-l©tOh^^tOP©©©©©©©©©P©CTCTCTCTOlCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTCTOlCT00P-l-lWNlJ^05                                                                                                                        co to © -a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00
a     o •JS.2
        &s -* CD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M
                                  |_i    M H M K H P K P H P K P                            ^     M M M h-1 M h-1 M h-1 M ^ M h-1 V-1 M M H 1 h-» M h-1 H 1
                   © O 5 O 0 0 0 © © W C O C O C O C O 0 5 C O C O O 5 C O C O C O h J C O C O C O C ^ C T C T Cl T C T C T C1T C T C TCTCTCTC^CTCTCTCTCTO5tO©©©O500L-1                                                    M00C5OI                      o
                   O5-qt0©00COCT©O505©©©O5C5©P©©COCOCOMH*h^MH h^h-»l- WhaHih-»l-*l-*h-lh^MM00©COO5©tOtOtO                                                                                                                  tOOIl-»-!
                   05cnto©-iCT^totototototoiototjtotOH*totototototoiotototototototObatotototototo©©Goooi-'-;totto                                                                                                                                        •3
  O . „                                                                                                                                                                                                                    to co coot                    t—I
O S   5

                   >to-to>to-to>#WW#W£iJ5l y w S W8 » t > >&> > > > i > > > ^ t > ! > t t . > ^ t i » > | j > ! > t > f > t > ^ | > ! ( > ! > ! ( . ^ > ( O H B r ( ( . > > ^ j >                                                                  o    o
                                8 8
                                  S
                                    8   8 58 8
                   B B B 3 3 3 ^ . . » . . » . , » . , . . . - » , *'3 B a & d a & a i a o : & & o . f t f t a & O i ( i , o i g g sag g a g o - g g g - g B =£0 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o    oa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !>
                                      "r«          50 50 72 72 00 72 50 50 00 50 00                                                                                                                         C ^ - " 1 » g 3°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <    M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JO   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Z    td
                   OOOOOO
                   050505
                   totoio
                                       00
                                       05
                                             00
                                             CO
                                                      00
                                                      05
                                                      to
                                                            00 00 00 00 00 0 0 - 1 - J — I - l - l - 3 - l - l - < l - l — I - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - J - 1 - 1 - 1 0 5 C 5 C D C 5 05
                                                            COt^iotOtOh^tOtOlOIOlNJlOWbiMtOtOtOtOtOtOtOlOtOtOtOtOtOtOtO©©©©©
                                                            ^i-ii-ioc-i-i-i^OTroropcsoscoososastoiototototototototo©©©©©©
                                                                                                                                                                                                          05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05
                                                                                                                                                                                                          © © © © —
                                                                                                                                                                                                          © © © © c:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3    H4

                   05Wt*^              s              ' '   ©hfi|-i©h^©tOh-i©©00-l©CT^COtOM©©00-l©CTt^05tOl-'©O5©00-]©CT                                                                                  >*-OSIOI-»C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   r»   VO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o\
                                                                 i-i       en                                                                                                                                                                      O    vo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   o
                   OOOOOO              50    50       50    OO72 to-to- to- to-to-to-to-to- to-to-to- to-to-to-to- to-to-to-to- to-to-to-to- to-to-to- to- to-OOOOOOOOOO to-00 00 50 0 0 50                                to-to-to-to-to-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   m    in
                   www                 w w w wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww                                                                                                                                                             >
                   h l K t t           K     K        S     B      H    M     K H K K P r J U h i h i H H K K K H H H P P M H H M U                                                     h-» tO tO
                   H->l-»>-^           H^    >-»      H»    H'MCKtOtOOTMI-'Mh^Mr-'MH'hJh-'MhJK-'OOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOgoOOOOOOOOOOmOOOOOOOOOO                                             t-»©©
                   i-'i-'ir'           !r^   i-4      t*      t - ' © ^ M h j © © © © © © © © © © © © © © o s c o c o c o c o c o c o c o c o o s c o ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 0 5 ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ o 5 C 5 t o - i o <
                   CTOlCH              OI    W        OI      WcOHHOlMHHHHHMMHHMHMMaKKOCOCOCOtiOOOOQOOOSOOOOOOOOOOOOOOffiCO-Jffl                                                                                                                        CO

                   1-J-l—t)—^          I-*   t-l      I-»   h-» |_i KHh'h'l-'HlHh'l-'Hh'h'hlh'h'                   P H H H H M P M H K H M P h l M
                   •""n't*             H     H        H     H   >J   COCT^^^^^^^rf^^'^^4^rf^©©©©©©©©©©©Mhfl-i|-»M05l-'MI-'hJMCTCTtOCOC'5                                                                                                     o W
                   0 5i 0 5 0 5        9     01       S       C»-100>^h-»©GO00000oa00000000000000000hJh^h-»^MH»l-»MMMI-i©©©©©-l©©©©©tOtOO5©©
                   h l-'H*             I-»   I-»      H>    H»00©CTOS-l©©©©©©©©©©©©©e!tOlCTCTCTCS<OtOlCTOtCT-l-l-l       —l-lOH-l-JH-lHHiaiCOO




                   P - P ^ 18» §R= S»= S8=B B B & B ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^                                                                                                       B                 BsBsB B^B^
                   sg^l     > P» •• >•                                                                                                                                                                W
                    1 1 s               a.   a        o.    OJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Co
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CO
330                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                              GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                     Bill     Chapter                                        Bill       Chapter
 Section             No.       No.            Effect       Section           No.         No.          Effect

  8340          SB 1115        1161      R&Ad,
                                          218
                                                           9357.05  SB 473                193     Ad
                                          S                9357.1   S B 473               193     Am
  8350          S B 1115       1161      R&Ad,
                                          218
                                                           9357.15  S B 473               193     Ad
                                          S                9357.2   SB 473                193     Am
  8351          S B 1115       1161      R&Ad,
                                          218
                                                           9357.46  AB 1403             1549      Ad
                                          S                9359     SB 473                193     S 106
  8352          SB 1115        1161      R&Ad,
                                          2
                                                           9359.01  S B 1034            1582      Am
                                          S »              9359.03  S B 473               193     Ad , a
  8353          SB 1115        1161      R&Ad,
                                          218
                                                           9359.1   AB 1868               776     Am*
                                          S                9359.10  SB 473                193     Ad
  8354          S B 1115       1161      R&Ad,             9359.11  AB 1868               776      g134



                                                                                                   sm
                                          gZ18
                                                           9358.12 AB1868                 776
  8355          SB 1115        1161      R&Ad,             9359.17 SB 473                193      Ad
                                          218
                                          S                9359.95  S B 473               193     Am
  8356          SB 1115        1161      R&Ad,
                                          218
                                                           9360.6   S B 473               193     Am
                                         S                 9360.7   SB 473                193     Am
 8357           S B 1115       1161      R , S 216                  SB 1034             1582       Am
 8358           SB 1115        1161      R , S 218         9600     SB 383                122     Am
 8359           SB 1115        1161      R , S 218         9619    S B     4           1428       Ad
 8360           S B 1115       1161      R , S 218         9906     S B 1284              606     Am
 8365           SB 1115        1161      Ad, S 219         9906.05 SB 383                 122     Am
 8366           SB 1115        1161      A d , S210        9909     SB 1284              606      Am
 8367           S B 1115       1161      A d , S 218     10335      SCR 17             R224#      S
 8368           SB 1115        1161      Ad, S 318        10525    AB2294                 371      Am
 8369           SB 1115        1161      A d , S 218     11005.3   S B 834              1030      Ad
 8370           S B 1115       1161      R&Ad,           11006     S B 255               355      S*
                                          218
                                         S               11011     S B 777              1024      Am
 8371           SB 1115        1161      R&Ad,
                                          318
                                                         11130     A B 2297               494     Am
                                         S               11528     S B 373                191     Am
 8372           S B 1115       1161      R&Ad,
                                          218
                                                         11550      S B 363             1599      R&Ad
                                         S               11550.5   SB 363              1599       R&Ad
  8380         SB 1115         1161      R , S 218       11551     A B 387                138      Am, S "
 8381          SB 1115         1161      R , S 216                 S B 363              1599      R&Ad
 8382          SB 1115         1161      R , S 216       11552     SB 363              1599       R &210A d
 8383          S B 1115        1161      R , S 218       11552.5   S B 363             1599       Ad , S
  8384         SB 1115         1161      R , S 218       11553     S B 363              1599      R&Ad
 8385          SB 1115         1161      R , S™          11554     S B 363             1599       R&Ad
 8386          SB 1115         1161      R , S 218       11554.1   S B 363             1599       R
 8387          SB 1115         1161      R , S218        11554.9   S B 363             1599       R
 8400          SB 1115         1161      R , S 218       11555     SB 363              1599       R&Ad
 8401          S B 1115        1161      R , S 218       11556     S B 363             1599       R&Ad
 8402          SB 1115         1161      R , S 218       11556.5   SB    363           1599       R
 8403          SB 1115         1161      R , S 218       11557     SB 363              1599       R
 8523          SB 674          1423      Am              11557.5   S B 363             1599       R
 8900          SB 383           122      R               11558     SB 363              1599       R&Ad
 8901          SB 281          1580      Am 1 8 6        11558.2   A B 387               138      Am, S17
 8923          A B 325         1512     R                          S B 363             1599       R
 9112          AB 1946          370     Ad               11558.5   SB 363              1599       R&Ad
 9142          SB 383           122     Am               11559     SB 363              1599       R&Ad
 9350.3        SB 383           122     Am               11559.5   S B 363             1599       R
 9350.55       SB 473           193     Ad               11560     SB 363              1599       R&Ad
 9350.56       SB 473           193     Ad                         SB 408              1601       Am
 9351          SB 473           193     Am               11560.1   S B 363             1599       Ad
 9351.3        SB 473           193     Am               11561     SB 363              1599       R
 9353          SB 383           122     Am               11562     SB 383                122
               SB 473                   Am                                                        R
 9353.6                         193                                S B 363             1599
 8354.1        SB 383           122     Am                         SB 363              1599       R
 9355.45       SB 473           193     Ad               11562.5
                                                                                                  Ad
 9356.15       SB 473           193     Ad               11563     SB 363              1599       R
 9357          S B 473          193     Am               11563.1   S B 363             1599       Ad
 # Resolution chapter.
 * Effective immediately.
 17
 ,2
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
105
    Sections 9359.11 and 9359.12 control over conflicting provisions of section.
134
    Not applicable to persons first elected to Senate or Assembly after December   31, 1969.
asa
    Provisions control over conflicting provisions of Section 9359.1.
210
    Increase in salary of legislators commences at noon January 4, 1971.
      Effective January 1, 1971.
218
      In the event of conflict, provisions of act control over piovisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1968
          or Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969.
                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                             331

                          GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                                        Bill     Chapter
Section           No.'      No.          Effect         Section           No.       No.           Effect

11563.2      SB    363      1599      Ad               12850.4   A B 387             138      Ad, S17
11563.3      SB    363      1599      Ad               12850.6   A B 387             138      Ad, S "
11563.5      SB    363      1599      R&Ad             12851     A B 387             138      Am, S 17
                                                                                                    17
11563.6      SB    363      1599      Ad               12852     A B 387             138      Am, S17
11563.7      SB    363      1599      Ad               12853     A B 387             138      Am, S17
11564        SB    363      1599      Ad               12854     A B 387             138      Am, S
11565        SB    363      1599      Ad               12855     A B 387             138      Ad, S "
11675        SB    363      1599      Ad               13073     S B 688            1013      Ad
11676        SB    363      1599      Ad               13074     S B 688            1013      Ad
11677        SB    363      1599      Ad               13291     S B 719            1016      Am
11678        SB    363      1599      Ad               13293     S B 719            1016      Am
11679        SB    363      1599      Ad               13321     A B 2359           1325      Am
12000        SB    363      1599      Am               Title 2,
12001        SB    362      1581      Am               Div. 3,
12040        AB    387       138      Am, S17"         P t . 3,
12050        AB    387       138      Am, S            Ch. 5.5
12050.2      AB    387       138      Ad, S "          (heading) A B 387             138      Am, S "
12050.4      AB    387       138      Ad, S "17        13480     A B 387             138      Am, S17"
12053        AB    387       138      Am, S            13481     A B 387             138      Am, S
12054        AB    387       138      Am, S17"         13490     A B 387             138      Am, S «
12055        AB    387       138      Am, S            13490.2   A B 387             138      Ad, S17
Title 2,                                               13490.4   AB 387              138      Ad, S17"
Div. 3,                                                13490.6   A B 387             138      Ad, S
Pt.2,                                                  13490.8   A B 387             138      Ad, S "
Ch. 1,                                                 13491     A B 387             138      Am, S17"
Art. 7.5                                               13492     AB 387              138      Am, S 17
(com-                                                  13493     A B 387             138      Am, S
mencing                                                13494     A B 387             138      Am, S "
12080)       ACR 144       R226# S                     13495     A B 387             138      Am, S "
12080.2      SB 674        1423  Am, S "               13498     A B 387             138      Am, S "
12080.5      SB 674        1423  Am88                  Title 2,
12081.2      SB 674        1423   Am                   Div. 3,
12199        A B 1124        322  Am a                 P t . 3.5
12428        AB 986          722  Ad*                  (heading) S B 1115           1161      Am, S213
12500        SB 363        1599   Am 28                13890     S B 1115           1161      Am, S218
             AB 662         1600  Am                   13891     A B 387             138      Am, S "
12505        SB 363        1599   R                              S B 1115           1161      Am (as am
             AB 662        1600   R 28                                                        by Stats.
12520        AB 518         1234  S*                                                          1969, Oh.
12597        AB 1025         490  Ad                                                          1 3 8 ) , S218
12800        AB 387          138  Am, S«               13891.1       SB 1115        1161      R, S216
12801        AB 387          138  Am, S17              13891.2                       138
12802        A B 387         138 •Am, S17                            A B 387                  Ad, S "
                                         17
12803        A B 387         138  Am, S17                            SB 1115        1161      R ( a s ad by
12803.2      AB 387          138  Am, S                                                       Stats. 1969,
12803.3      AB 387          138  Am, S»                                                      Ch. 138)
12803.4      AB 387          138  Am, S17                                                     Am (as ad
12803.7      SB 1389       1472   Ad                                                          by S t a t s .
12804        AB 387          138  Am, S17                                                     1964 1st
12805        AB 387          138  Am,28 S "                                                   E x . Sess.,
             AB 413          482  Am 17                                                       Ch. 101),
12806        AB 387          138  Ad, S17                                                     S a e 218
12807        AB 387          138  Ad, S17              13891.3       S B 1115       1161      Am, S
12808        AB 387          138  Ad, S                13891.4       A B 387         138      Ad, S 17
12809        AB 387          138  Ad, S "                            S B 1115       1161      R (asad
12810        AB 387          138  Ad, S1717                                                   by S t a t s .
12850        AB 387          138  Am, S17                                                     1969, Ch.
12850.2      AB 387          138  Ad, S                                                       1 3 8 ) , S2^
   # Resolution chapter.
    * Effective immediately.
   " S e e Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  »M Operative on July 1, 1969.
   28
      Operative on January 1, 1970.
   88
      Operative January 1, 1971.
 216
      Authority of Governor to transmit reorganization plans effective until December 31, 1971.
      In the event of conflict, provisions of act control ovei provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1968
          or Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969.
332                       SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                          GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                 BUI       Chaptet                                       Bill      Chapter
Section          No.         No.         Effect         Seetlon          No.        No.            Effect
                                             17
13892.5      AB 387          138      Am, S           13979         AB 387           138     Am, S17
             S B 1115       1161      Am (as am       13980         AB 387           138     Am, S "
   ^                                  by Stats.       13981         AB 387           138     Am, S«
                                      1969, Ch.       13982         A B 387          138     Am, S 1 '
                                      138), S216      13983         AB 387           138     Am, S«
Div. 3,                       '                       13985         AB 387           138     Ad, S«
Pt.4,                                                 13986         AB 387           138     Ad, S17
Ch. 5                                                 13987         AB 387           138     Ad, S17
(heading) SB       368      1111      Am              13988         AB 387           138     Ad, S17
          SB       108      1431      Am              13990         AB 974          1404     Ad
Div. 3,                                               13990.1       AB 974          1404     Ad
Pt.4,                                                 13990.2       AB 974          1404     Ad
Oh. 5,                                                13990.3       AB 974          1404     Ad
Art. 1                                                13990.4       AB 974          1404     Ad
(heading) S B      368      1111      Ad              13990.5       AB 974          1404     Ad
          SB       108      1431      Ad              13990.6       AB 974          1404     Ad
13970     SB       368      1111      Ad (by          14000         AB 387           138     Am, S17"
                                      See. 3.5        "14005        AB 387           138     Am, S
                                      of Oh.)         14007         AB 387           138     Am, S "
             S B 108        1431      Ad (by          14012         SB 1238         1327     Ad, S
                                      Sec. 3.5                      AB 1482         1475     Ad
                                      of Oh.)          14257        S B 884         1036     Ad
13971        S B 368        1111      Ad (by           14290        SB 884          1036     R&Ad
                                      Sec. 3.5         14291        SB 884          1036     R&Ad
                                      ofCh.)           14292        SB 884          1036     R
             S B 108        1431      Ad (by           14293        SB 884          1036     R
                                      Sec. 3.5         14378        SB   88         1462     Ad
                                      of Oh.)          14379        SB   88         1462     Ad
13972        S B 368        1111      Ad (by           14380        SB   88         1462     Ad
                                      Sec. 3.5         14402.5      SB 533          1496     Ad
                                      ofCh.)           14404        SB   88         1462     Ad
             S B 108        1431      Ad (by           14601        AB 387           138     Am, S "
                                      Sec. 3.5         14626        AB 2359         1325     Am
                                      of Oh.)          14671.5      AB 679           408     Ad, S*
13973        S B 368        1111      Ad (by           14760        AB 387           138     Am, S "
                                      Sec. 3.5         14790        SB   29         1429     Am
                                      of Ch.)          14808.5      S B 138           39     Am
             S B 108        1431      Ad (by           14877        AB2294           371     Am 1
                                      Sec. 3.5         14980        AB 387           138     Ad, S '
                                      of Ch.)                       SB 1115         1161     R (as ad
13974        S B 368        1111      Ad (by                                                 by Stats,
                                      Sec. 3.5                                               1969, Ch.
                                      of Oh.)                                                138) &Ad,
              S B 108       1431      Ad (by                                                 S21"
                                      Sec. 3.5         14981         AB 387          138     Ad, S "
                                      of Oh.)                        SB 1115        1161     R (as ad
Title 2,                                                                                     by Stats.
Div. 3,                                                                                      1969, Ch.
P t . 4.5                                                                                    138) & Ad,
(heading AB         387       138      Am, S "                                                g 216

Title 2,                                               14982         AB 387          138      Ad, S17
Div. 3,                                                              SB 1115        1161      R (as ad
P t . 4.5,                                                                                    by Stats.
Ch. 1                                                                                         1969, Ch.
(heading] A B       974     1404      A * 17                                                  138) &Ad,
13975      AB       387      138      Am, S 17                                                S 216

13976      AB       387      138      Am, S17          14983         AB 387          138      Ad, S17
13977      AB       387      138      Am, S 17                       SB 1115        1161      R ( a s ad
13978      AB       387      138      Am, S17                                                 by Stats.
13978.2    AB       387      138      Ad, S                                                   1969, Oh.
13978.4    AB       387      138      Ad, S "                                                 138)
                                                                                               216
                                                                                                     &Ad,
13978.6    AB       387      138      Ad, S "                                                  S
   * Effective immediately.
  " S e e Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
 218
     In the event of conflict, provisions of act control over provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1968
          or Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969.
                           SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                                   333

                           GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                                          BUI       Chapter
Section           No.         No.          Effect         Section            No.        No.           Effect
                                                                                                       181
14984        AB 387           138      Ad, S "      16104              A B 193         1526       Ad* 184
             SB 1115         1161      R (as ad     16105              A B 193         1526       Ad* 184
                                       by Stats.    16106              A B 193         1526       Ad* 184
                                       1969, Ch.    16107              A B 193         1526       Ad*184
                                       138)
                                        218
                                            & Ad,   16108              A B 193         1526       Ad* 184
                                       S            16109              A B 193         1526       Ad* 184
14985        AB 387           138      Ad, S»       16110              A B 193         1526       Ad*
             S B 1115        1161      R (as ad     16310              AB1336           868       Am
                                       by Stats.    16351.5            S B 715         1330       Ad
                                       1969, Ch.    16354              SB 255           355       S*
                                       138)
                                         2la
                                              &Ad, 16731               SB 763           740       Am, S217
                                       S            16736              SB 763           740       Am, S217
14986        AB 387           138      Ad, S "      16737              SB 764           741       Ad*
             SB 1115         1161      R (as ad     18021.6            A B 539           32       Ad,28S* "*
                                       by Stats.    18025              AB    66        1521       Am
                                       1969, Ch.    18653              AB2294           371       Am
                                       138)
                                         218
                                              & Ad, 18654.5            A B 1092         853       Ad 3
                                       S            18731              S B 383          122       Am
14987        AB 387           138      Ad, S "      19102              S B 383          122       R
             SB 1115         1161      R (as ad     19140              A B 598          809       Am
                                       by Stats.    19141              A B 598          809       Am
                                       1969, Ch.    19170              A B 598          809       Am
                                       138)
                                         218
                                              &Ad, 19171               AB 598           809       R&Ad
                                       S            19253              A B 598          809       Am
14988        A B 387          138      A d , S17    19364              A B 598          809       R
             SB 1115         1161      R (as ad     19398              A B 598          809       R
                                       by Stats.    19405              A B 1816         912       Am, S
                                       1969, Ch.    19452              S B 1308        1199       Am
                                       138)   & Ad, 19533.2            S B 504          986       Am
                                       S 218        19555              SB 1308         1199       Ad
15480        AB 387           138      R, S "       19556              S B 1308        1199       Ad
15481        AB 387           138      R, S "       19582              AB 180           794       Am
15482        AB 387           138      R, S "       19800              A B 1781        1283       Ad, S107
15483        AB 387           138      R, S17"      19801              AB 1781         1283       Ad, S107
15484        A B 387          138      R, S17       19802              A B 1781        1283       Ad, S107
15485        AB 387           138      R, S         19803              AB 1781         1283       Ad, S™1OT
15606        SB 662          1006      S            19804              AB 1781         1283       Ad, S
             SB 1365         1509      Am, S18S     19805              AB 1781         1283       A d , S1OT
15700        AB 387           138      Am, S17 17
                                                    19806              A B 1781        1283       A d , S 107
15854.5      AB 387           138      Am, S        19807              A B 1781        1283       A d , S1»7
Title 2,                                            19808              A B 1781        1283       A d , S 107
Div. 3,                                             19809              A B 1781        1283       A d , S 107
P t . 12,                                           19810              AB 1781         1283       A d , S 107
Ch. 1                                               20002              A B 387          138       A m , S17
(heading) AB 2338            1323      Am           20017.75           AB 865          1540       Am
15900     A B 2338           1323      Am           20017.76           A B 267         1402       S
15901     AB 2338            1323      Am           20017.8            A B 1587        1516       Am
16000     SB 941             1042      Am           20020.6            S B 233            5       Ad*
16080     S B 941            1042      Am 164       20021.6            A B 1237         477       Am
16100     AB 193             1526      Ad* 184      20024.01           SB 567           991       A m (by
16101     AB 193             1526      Ad* 184                                                    Seel
16102     AB 193             1526      Ad* 1 M                                                    ofCh.)
16103     AB 193             1526      Ad*          20025              AB      201       751      Am48
   *8 Effective immediately.
      Contingent effect.
  " S e e Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  28
  48
       Operative January 1, 1971.
      Operative on first of month following month In which statutes enacted at 1969 Regular Session are effective.
i<"
 184
      Operative  January 1, 1970.
      Operative on and after July 1, 1970.
is» Between effective date of act and February 28, 1971, State Board of Equalization is directed to develop
 215
         rules re possessory interest.
 216
      Certain overtime claims may be filed on or before December 31, 1969.
      In the event of conflict, provisions of act control over provisions of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1968
          or Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969.
 2" If Senate Constitutional Amendment No. 26 of the 1969 Eegular Session is approved by the electors, the
          amendments by this act shall be operative with respect to all bonds, and notes issued in anticipation
          thereof, irrespective of when such bonds may have been authorized.
334                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                             GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                    Bill      Chapter                                         Bill      Chapter
 Section            So.        No.           Effect         Section           No.        No.           Effect

20025.1           AB 201            751      R«               21150      A B 258          1227      R & A d 44 88
20042             SB 666         1007       Ad 46             21151      A B 258          1227      R&Ad48
20124             AB 257          1226       Am               21152      A B 258          1227      R&Ad
20334             AB 258          1227       Am»              21153      A B 258          1227      R & A d 4488
20520             AB 245           752       gu 16            21154      A B 258          1227      R & Ad4 0
20601.6           AB 1883        1558        Ad 9              21155     A B 258          1227      R48 &Ad
20602             A B 245          752       Am*              21156      A B 258          1227      R48
                  A B 287          753       Am»               21156.1   AB 258           1227      R 48
20609             AB 245            752      R " 46            21157     A B 258          1227      R 48
20612             A B 245           752      Am16              21158     A B 258          1227      R
                  AB 287           753       Am               21160      A B 258          1227      R 48«
20656             AB 245           752       Am"              21161      A B 258          1227      R 48
20750.35 A B 1 8 8 3             1558        Ad"              21162      A B 258          1227      R
20801.5           AB 257         1226       R 18              21200.1    A B 1174         1546      S
20804.5           AB 257         1226        R 48             21200.2    A B   1174       1546      Ad48
20804.51 AB 257                  1226        R 4a             21221.5    A B 245           752      Ad 48
20804.52 A B 257                 1226        R«                21226     AB 245            752      Am
20804.6           AB 257         1226       R 48              21251.141 A B 1883          1558      Ad48
20804.T           AB 257         1226        R48              21251.4    AB 245            752      R 48«
20804.8           AB1563         1554       Ad 48
                                                              21251.5    A B 245           752      R 48
20805.5           A B 257        1226        R                21251.6    AB 245            752      R
20810.5           A B 257        1226        R«               21252.001 AB 171             793      Am4550 48 a
20810.6           AB 257         1226        R 48
                                               «              21252.01 AB 287              753      Am, 48      S '
20811             A B 257        1226        R46               21252.1   A B 245           752      Am, S48
20812             A B 257        1226        R 48                        A B 287           753      Am, S4 8
20813             A B 257        1226        R                 21252.10 A B 245            752      Am.S 48
20814.5           AB 257         1226        R 48             21252.2    A B 245           752      Am, S 48
20815             AB 257         1226        R«               21252.45 A B 287             753      Am, S ' »
20816             AB 257         1226        R48              21252.5    AB     287        753      g 4 6 , 50, 238
20817             AB 257         1226        R 48
                                               48
                                                              21252.6    AB     245        752      Am     48

20818             A B 257        1226        R48                         A B 287           753      R48 48
20820             A B 257        1226       R 48              21252.8    A B 245           752      Am
20835             A B 201          751       Am48                        A B 287           753      R 4848
20860             A B 257        1226       Am48              21252.9    A B 245           752      Ad
20860.5          A B 257         1226       Am48
                                                              21253.1    A B 257          1226      R 48
20896             A B 257        1226       R                 21253.15 A B 257            1226      R*> 48 146
20897             A B 257        1226       R 48
                                              48
                                                              21264      A B 258          1227      Am '
20897.1           A B 257        1226       R 48              21264.6    A B 96            153      Ad*
20920             A B 257        1226       R 48              21293.6    AB 1883          1558      Ad48
20921             A B 257        1226       R                 21301      A B 1325         1268      Ad
20921.1           A B 257        1226       R*>
                                              48
                                                              21364.7    AB 1883          1558      S4848
20921.2          AB 257          1226       R 8               21364.8    A B 1883         1558      Ad
20922             AB 257         1226       R*                21367.5    A B 201           751      R48 48
20923             A B 257        1226       R 48      48
                                                              21367.51 A B 201             751      Am
20930             AB 257         1226       R48& Ad           21382.5    A B 284          1381      Ad
20930.5           A B 257        1226       R48               21384      AB1883           1558      S48
20930.6          A B 257         1226       R 48              21385      A B 1826         1287      S48
20930.7          A B 257         1226       R                            AB 1883          1558      S
20931             A B 257        1226       R & A d 44 88     21385.1    AB 1826          1287      Ad48
20932             AB 257         1226       R&Ad              21385.6    A B 1883         1558     Ad 49
20933            A B 257         1226       R 48& Ad48        22014      AB 1883          1558     Am46
20933.4          A B 257         1226       R                 22825      SB 418           1376     Am
20933.5          A B 257         1226       R«                23010      SB 434            340     Am*
20934            A B 257         1226       R &48A d 4 8      23700      AB1094           1264     Ad 38
20935            A B 257         1226       Ad 48             23701      A B 1094         1264     Ad 8
20950.7          A B 258         1227       Am                23702      AB1094           1264     Ad 3
21103             SB 1324          786      Ad*               23703      A B 1094         1264      Ad
   *8 Effective immediately.
  46 Contingent effect.
      Section applicable only to contracting agencies which were subject to it on effective date of amendment to
  48     this section at 1969 Regular Session.
  80 Operative on first of month following month In which statutes enacted at 1969 Regular Session are effective.
     Section 21252.01 supersedes section 21252.1, 21252.45, or 21252.5, whichever is then applicable, with
          respect to patrol and local safety members who retire after date section 21252.01 becomes applicable
  81     to their respective employers.
149 Supersedes section 21252.5 with respect to contracting agencies electing to be subject thereto.
      Not applicable to any contracting agency nor employees of any contracting agency unless and until agency
 238     elects to be subject to the provisions of this section.
      Superseded by Section 21252.01 with respect to contracting agencies electing to be subject thereto.
                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                              335

                          GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                            Bill    Chapter
 Section          No.        No.        Effect   Section      No.       No.      Effect
                                        8
23704           AB1094        1264    Ad         27503     A B 158    1220      Am
23705           AB1094        1264    Ad 3a      27504     A B 158    1220      Am
23706           AB 1094       1264    Ad         27504.1   A B 158    1220      Ad
23707           AB 1094       1264    Ad a3      27505     A B 158    1220      R
23708           AB1094        1264    Ad8        27506     AB 158     1220      R
23709           AB1094        1264    Ad 3       27507     A B 158    1220      R
23710           AB 1094       1264    Ad 8       27508     A B 158    1220      R
23711           AB 1094       1264    Ad 8       27509     AB 158     1220      R
23712           AB 1094       1264    Ad 3       27510     A B 158    1220      R
23713           A B 1094      1264    Ad         27513     A B 158    1220      R
23720           A B 1094      1264    Ad 88      27540     A B 158    1220      R
23721           AB1094        1264    Ad 8       27541     A B 158    1220      R
23722           AB 1094       1264    Ad 8       27542     A B 158    1220      R
23723           AB1094        1264    Ad         27543     A B 158    1220      R
23724           AB 1094       1264    Ad 33      27544     A B 158    1220      R
23730           AB 1094       1264    Ad8        27545     AB 158     1220      R
23731           AB1094        1264    Ad 8       27546     AB 158     1220      R
23732           AB1094        1264    Ad         27707     S B 193     957      Ad
24000           SB 646         638    Am         28103     SB 367      190      Am
24001           SB 606           60   Am*        28105     AB 2076    1410      Am
24010           A B 1828      1398    Ad         28106     AB 2076    1410      Am
24300           SB 383         122    Am         28107     A B 2076   1410      Am
                SB 488         343    Am                   AB 2076    1410      Am
24300.5         SB 646         638    Ad         28111
                SB    383      122               28112     AB 2076    1410      Am
24304                                 Am                   AB 2076    1410      Am
                SB 4»s         343    Am         28113
25210.4         SB 231         188    Am*        28114     A B 2076   1410      Am
25210.65 A B 2 0 5 3          1300    Am         28115     A B 2076   1410      Am
25353           AB2003         929    Am         28117     A B 2076   1410      Am
25374           AB 1692       1090    Ad         28118     AB2076     1410      Am
25375           AB 1692       1090    Ad         28119     A B 2076   1410      Am
25457.1         AB 472         499    Ad         28120     AB 2076    1410      Am
25458           AB 900         101    Am*        28121     AB 2076    1410      Am
25504.5         AB 983         463    Ad         28123     AB 2076    1410      Am
25509           AB 1279        505    Am         28124     AB 2076    1410      Am
25539           AB 1740        897    Ad         28125     A B 2076   1410      Am
25940           SB 383         122    B          28127     A B 2076   1410      Am
26155           AB 643        1385    Am         28130     A B 2076   1410      Am
26207           AB 801         412    Am         28131     AB 2076    1410      Am
26614.5         SB 1302        589    Ad         28132     AB 2076    1410      Am
26616            SB   806      457    Am         28133     A B 2076   1410      Am
26646            SB 998        279    Ad         28134     AB 2076    1410      Am
26724           AB 1813        514    Am         28138     AB 2076    1410      Am
26726           S B 644        595    Am         28139     A B 2076   1410      Am
26734           AB 1813        514    Am         28141     A B 2076   1410      Am
26735           AB 1813        514    Am         28145     A B 83     1216      Am
26743           AB 1813        514    Am         28147     AB 2076    1410      Am
26822.3          SB 836       1499    Ad         28149     A B 2076   1410      Am
26837           AB 700         178    Am         28151     AB 2076    1410      Am
26859            SB 252       1608    Am, S*     28153     A B 2076   1410      Am
26980            SB 646        638    Ad                   SB 679     1411      Am
26981            SB 646        638    Ad         28155     AB2076     1410      Am
26982            SB 646        638    Ad         28157     AB 2076    1410      Am
26983            SB 646        638    Ad         28158     AB 2076    1410      Am
27200           AB2294         371    R          29040     A B 2305   1322      Am
27206           AB2294          371   Am         29100.5   AB 778       283     Am*
27288.1          SB 22         592    Ad                   AB 193      1526     Am*
27361.2          SB     54       36   Ad         29123     SB 741       739     Am
27442            AB1048         319   Am         29141     AB 640       309     Am
27491.6          AB 158       1220    Am         29141.1   AB 640       309     Am
27491.7          AB 158       1220    Ad         29430     AB 1560      566     R&Ad
27499.1         AB 158        1220    Ad         29431     A B 1560     566     R
27502.2         AB 158        1220    Ad         29432     A B 1560     566     R
  *8 Effective immediately.
 83 Contingent effect.
     Operative on January 1, 1970.
336                       SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                           GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                                         Bill      Chapter
Section           No.        No.          Effect         Section           No.        No.           Effect

29433        A B 1560        566       B                Title 4,
29802        A B 154         107       Am12             Div. 1,
29851        A B 154         107       Am               Ch. 3
29916        A B 2056        600       Am*              (heading) A B        387        138     Am, S*7
31000.2      A B 514         219       Ad*              34200     AB         387        138     Am, S "
31000.3      SB 1318         354       Ad               34202.5   AB         387        138     Ad, S "
31462        A B 836         416       Am               34205     AB         387        138     Am, S "
31469.4      SB 737         1463       Ad92             34207     AB         387        138     Ad, S "
31503.9      AB 1677         439       B                34208     AB         387        138     Ad, S "
31504        A B 1677        439       B                34209     AB         387        138     Ad, S "
31504.9      AB 1677         439       B                34209.2   AB         387        138     Ad, S "
31532        AB 835          239       Am               34211     AB         387        138     Am & B N ,
31558.1      AB 776         1247       Am                                                       Ad, S "
31564        AB 902          317       Am*               34212         AB 387           138     Am&BN,
31567        A B 776        1247       Am                                                       Ad ( B N ) ,
31639.2      A B 1677        439       B                                                         gX7
31639.5      A B 1677        439       B                 34213         A B 387          138      Ad ( B N ) ,
31641.7      AB 710          501       Ad                                                        S"
31641.95     S B 415         978       Am                34214         A B 387          138      Ad ( B N ) ,
31653        SB 415          978       Am                                                        S1'
31663.2      A B 1677        439       B                 34215         AB 387           138      Ad, S17"
31664        SB 383          122       B & Ad            34216         AB 387           138      Ad, S
                                        (UN)             34217         AB 387           138      Ad(BN),
             A B 1677         439      B                                                         S"
31664.01     SB 383           122      Am&BN             34217.1       AB 387           138      Ad, S "
31664.1      AB 1677          439      B                 34218         AB 387           138      Ad ( E N ) ,
31664.2      AB 1677          439      B                                                         g 17

31664.6      AB 1677          439      B                 34219         AB 387           138      Ad (BN),-
31664.65     SB 383           122      B (as ad                                                  S1'
                                       by Stats          34306         AB 1182          324      Am
                                       1967, Ch          34315         AB2065          1301      Am
                                       550)              34450         AB 1094         1264      B & A d 88
31671    AB 338                83      S* 1 0            34451         AB1094          1264      B&Ad
31671.5  A B 1677             439      B 9 10            34452         AB 1094         1264      B & A d 33
31671.7  AB 338                83      Ad* >             34453         AB 1094         1264      R&Ad 3
31676.2  AB 1677              439      B                 34454         AB1094          1264      R &8 A d
31676.4  AB 1677              439      B                 34455         AB1094          1264      Ad 3
31676.5  AB 1677              439      B                 34456         AB1094          1264      Ad
31676.55 AB 1677              439      B                 34457         AB 1094         1264      Ad 3
31676.7  A B 1677             439      B                 34458         AB1094          1264      Ad 3
31676.8  AB 1677              439      B                 34459         AB 1094         1264      Ad 83
31679.2  AB 1677              439      B                 34460         AB1094          1264      Ad
31691    AB 1444             1271      Am
                                                         34461         AB 1094         1264      Ad 33
                                                         34462         AB 1094         1264      Ad3
31695.2  A B 1439             767      Am*               34463                         1264
                                                                       AB 1094                   Ad
31703    AB 1439              767      Am*               34900         AB 1154          504      Am
31726.5  AB1881               922      Am                34901         AB 1154          504      Am
31781.3  AB 1273              621      Ad                34902         AB 1154          504      Am
31800.5  SB 657              1329      Ad                35121.6       AB2065          1301      Am
31808.6  AB 1439              767      Ad*               35130         AB 2226          780      Am
31812    A B 1439             767      Am*               35251.5       SB 1300          598      Ad
31815    AB1439               767      Am*               35271.5       SB 1300          598      Ad
31831    SB 383               122      Am                35313.6       AB2065          1301      Am
                                                         35561.4       AB2063           452      Am
31831.2  S B 1101            1157      Ad                35701         AB 989           228      Am*
31840.2  SB 666              1007      Ad                35801         AB 989           228      Am*
31873    A B 1272             548      Am                36935         AB 1855          775      Am
31874.1  AB 1272              548      Ad 29             37101         SB 310           969      S
  * Effective immediately.
  8
  9
    Contingent effect.
 10
    Not effective until board of supervisors of county make provisions of section applicable by resolution.
 12
    Inoperative  after December 31, 1972.
 17
    Effective on July 1, 1970.
 29
    See  Sec. 311.5   of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
 92
    Not operative until adopted by majority vote of board of supervisors.
    Not applicable in any county until board of supeivisors by resolution make the provisions applicable.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                        337

                            GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                 Bill       Chapter                                   Bill     Chapter
Section          No.          No.       Effect       Section          No.       No.          Effect

37101.5     SB 310            969     Ad            51231          AB 1178      1372      Ad
37902       SB 515            594     Am            51232          A B 1178     1372      Ad
38780       AB 1702           894     Ad            51233          A B 1178     1372      Ad
38781       AB 1702           894     Ad            51234          A B 1178     1372      Ad
38782       AB 1702           894     Ad            51235          AB 1178      1372      Ad
38783       AB 1702           894     Ad            51236          AB 1178      1372      Ad,
38784       AB 1702            894    Ad            51237          AB 1178      1372      Ad
38785       AB 1702           894     Ad            51238          A B 1178     1372      Ad
38793       AB 1326           492     Ad            51239          AB 1178      1372      Ad
43015       SB 257              20    Ad*           51240          AB 1178      1372      Am
            AB 285             129    Am, S*        51241          AB 1178      1372      Am
43068       A B 2305         1322     Am.,          51242          AB 1178      1372      Am
43072       AB 184               4    Am*           51243          AB 1178      1372      Am
43610       AB 2056            600    Am*           51243.5        AB 1178      1372      Am
45310.5     SB 666           1007     Ad            51244          AB 1178      1372      Am, S
50023       SB 1214          1182     Am            51244.5        AB 1178      1372      Ad
50050       AB1383             655    Am            51245          A B 1178     1372      Am
50362       SB 383            122     Am            51246          A B 1178     1372      Am
50363       SB 383             122    Am            51247          AB 1178      1372      R&Ad
50842       AB2294             371    Am                                                   (RN)
50925       A B 439            142    Ad            51248          A B 1178     1372      R&Ad
50926       AB 439             142    Ad                                                  (RN)
50927       AB 439             142    Ad            51249          A B 1178     1372      Am & RN,
51050       AB 1176            762    Ad                                                  Ad
51051       AB 1176            762    Ad            51250          A B 1178     1372      Am & RN,,
51052       AB 1176            762    Ad                                                  Ad
51053       AB 1176            762    Ad            51251          AB 1178      1372      R&Ad
51054       AB 1176            762    Ad                                                   (RN)
51055       AB 1176            762    Ad            51252          A B 1178     1372      Am & R N ,
51056       AB 1176            762    Ad                       ,                          Ad
51057       AB 1176            762    Ad            51253      AB 1178          1372      R&Ad
51058       AB 1176            762    Ad            51254      A B 1186         1473      Ad
51059       AB 1176            762    Ad            Title 5,
51060       AB 1176            762    Ad            Div. 1,
51061       A B 1176           762    Ad            P t . 1,
51062       AB 1176            762    Ad            Ch. 7,
51063       A B 1176           762    Ad            Art. 3.5,
51064       AB 1176            762    Ad            (heading ) A B 1186          1473     R
51065       AB 1176            762    Ad            51255      A B 1178          1372     R
51201       AB 1178           1372    Am            51256      A B 1178          1372     R
            A B 1186          1473     Am (by       51260      AB 1178           1372     R
                                       Sec. 1 of    51260.1    AB 1178           1372     R
                                       Ch.)         51261      AB 1178           1372     R.
51201.1                                             51261.1    AB 1178           1372     R
             AB 1178          1372     R            51261.2    A B 1178          1372
51202        A B 1178         1372     R&Ad                                               R
                                                    51261.3    A B 1178          1372     R
                                       (BN)         51262      AB 1178           1372     R
51203        AB 2305          1322     Ad ( R N )   51263      A B 1178          1372     R
             AB 1178          1372     Am & R N ,   51281      A B 1178          1372     Am
                                       Ad ( R N )   51282      A B 1178          1372     R&Ad
51204        A B 2305         1322     Am & RN,     51283      AB 1178           1372     R&Ad
                                       Ad           51283.3    A B 1178          1372     R&Ad
              AB 1178         1372     Am&RN        51285      AB 1178           1372     Am
51205         AB 1186         1473     Ad N         51286      A B 1178          1372     R
51220         AB 1186         1473     Am           51292      AB 1178           1372     Am
51222          AB 1178        1372     R            51293      AB 1178           1372     Am
51223         AB 1178         1372     R            51295      A B 1178          1372     Am
51230         A B 1178        1372     Ad 2 "       51334      A B 184              4     Am*
 * Effective immediately.
 11
    Beginning January 1, 1971, any county or city having a general plan, and until December 31, 1970, any
       county or city, by resolution, and after public hearing may establish an agricultural preserve.
en en en en en en en en en 01 en enen ot en en en en en en en enen
                                                                 en     encnen en en encnen                                                                                                         co
COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO                  co      Co to CO co co Co co co                                                                                                     CO
COCDCOCOCOCOCOOOOOOOOO-105C5C505050505C50505C5                  05      0505 05 05                                                                                                                  00
^>^rf!>*.^©oc©coen©©-a-3—i—i—i-i^]-a-JC5C5                      05      C505 05 C5              en en                               enenenencn^eoi^rf^coeocoMOCsoscstocpc
enrf^tOMOMCtotoi^OCOco-ien^cocoiOMCOo-^                         05      OIM^CO - -              -j05                               en 4^co to M CO o M © to M © os en 55 - i t o o *• 10
                   co                     en
h*h>t»-h»h>-mmmmie-mii>mwmmmmwmmmm                              w mmm m m mmm mm     mmmmmmmi»-^\>\»-^-mmii>-mmmti>-^-
WWWWWWWWWwWwWWWWWWWWWWW                                         td WWW td td WWW WW WWWWWWWwWWWWWWwWWWwW
tototototoMM                 M                                                                                                                _       tototototo,
tO tO tO tO i               --..--—-                               -- -                    —       —               —       ..         ..


|_i |_i |_i (
            _i |_i M M   H M H h i p K M K M P H P  H" M K M        M  M       K M M     MM   M M M M M M M               M H H M
                                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
cnenenenenMMtotocoMO^^^*-^^^^^^^
XJ^^y:3-j-jMM©toc50ocooooooooooooooooooo
                                                 #• * . ^ > 4 ^ rf^ M # • * ; * •
                                                 00 aoooco       00 00 005050
                                                                                   sfe*-
                                                                                   00CO
                                                                                                       fe&&£&&!feci®e»«e»©©eojfi_,„I
                                                                                          OOOOGCroGSOCGCOOOOO^tOtOCOCnCn                                                                      0    1—1
lototototo©©*^^—jto—icococococococococococo      CO c o c o c o CO CO c o c o c o  coco    cocococoCococo©©©©©coco^co©©ri^Hi.
                                                                                                                                                                                              <
                                                                                                                                                                                              m
                                                                                                                                                                                              90
                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                                                                                                                                                   '•A
                                                                                                                                                                                                   00
                                                                                                                                                                                              Z
ftftftftftft*ftBBB*Sl.sjW».s.g.g.gft.ft. & ».*.*. g. * ^ f t , »<| * X 1 ^ B . W * • * *                                                                             B aB B B B B
                                                                                                                                                                       .      . . . .         2
                                 '   mmmmmmmm"                                                                                                                                                m    *1
                                                               > ft >i
                                                               ft                      ft %            ft" 32 5°       ft>             wrj2mmm                                                7;   fet
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Q
                                                                8   8                                                                                                                         -4
                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                              O    «
ctenenenenenencnenenenenenencnenenenenentenenenen                  en en en en en en en en en                    en         en en,— OhJHtJenenenenenenoicncnencnencnen
                                                                                                                                    yrfsS^t^ii-^^^^^f'^^-i^eoco                               O    W
C^C^©C^C^0505C^C^C^O505C5050505O5O5O5050505a5hfe'                  ^ *_ j _ ^ r t . 4 - ^ ^ J-                  4_         4- © o • • < m m - i ~ i * - » ^ K K P « o                         O    Kj
                                                                                                                                    * M ' STcD©coco-i-J©ooa5enoieni^i£                        m
eo©ccooooooooco-q-]-q-i-qcnencn©C5Cneoto©©35                       cp co co co cb co co © ©                      co         co     i30- to ^ co-5-i-5 ©05 to to©-i-i en <t 05                      M
oo-j©enrf^coto©en^cotoo-J05Cnoooco?ooococo©
                                                                                                                                  Sg                                                               \o
                                                                   COCOCOCOCOCOCOMM
                                                                   - 4 05 tO tO M M p CO CO
                                                                           tO M © M tO tO i->
                                                                                                               ©
                                                                                                               CO
                                                                                                                           ©
                                                                                                                           tO
                                                                                                                                        - - Mco'tof-'bof-'      i->
                                                                                                                                                                                              1 vnas
                                                                                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                              O    0
                                                                                                                                                                                              3    HI
WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWtdWtd WWWWtdWWWWWWWWWWWW W                                                                                                   wwwwwwwWuwwwww
tstotototototototoiotototoiotototototoMi-itoMto                                                                                                   tototototototo,                 to to       3    >-
                                                                                                                                                                                                   T1
                                                               0toCO^Mttx-qlot-OGOOO
                                                                 0 - j c p r f i . c i c o G o a o t o t oCD
                                                                                                           ^ iCO-)
                                                                                                              o c o -C
                                                                                                                     iD
                                                                                                                      p cCo
                                                                                                                          o o-ao ct on rf*.       ©©©©©©©2!                        toto
                                                                                                                                                  C505©O5O505Cn©-1-1-J-J*.*.                  e
                                                                                                                                                                                              0    a
                                                               00 co © t o to 00 00 00 co co coil'.ooeott'Ooooto                                  en en en en en en 051-» cs C5 05 05 en en
                                                                                                                                                                                              a.   a
                                                                                                                                                                                                   w
MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMI-'
COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOMMCOMrf^ ^ b i M M H M l l i ^ tOtOMtOtOh-^M                                                                co co co co co co 05 M enoi
©©©©©©©©©0©©©©©©©©©^^©^©MOOCn-ah(^COMMCOCOGO*.Coa3*-COMhfc.                                                                                       ©©©©©©©cpcnencnen-a-l
HMHKKHMpHMMHKHHMMMH-l-lM-aSoiWOOHOtlsOIOlOOOlK-J&H-lOIIX)                                                                                         MMMMMMpl^lOtOtOtOtOtO


B   gBBBBBBBBBgggSB                           BB3B3B ^ a a a a a a i i • * * * * * * *                                                            g &ftg ft&g g *O-B * f t f t
                                                                                                                                                             * * *-
                                                                                                                                                                             50
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                          339
                             GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                     Bill     Chapter                                     Bill      Chapter
Section              Vo.        No.       Effect         Section          No.         No.          Effect

56211        A B 2065          1301     Am             66632.2       AB2057           713       Ad
56212        AB2065            1301     Am             66632.3       AB2057           713       Ad
56260        AB2065            1301     Am             66632.4       A B 2057         713       Ad
56262        AB2065            1301     Am             66633         A B 2057         713       Am
56263        AB2065            1301     Am             66635         A B 2057         713       Am
56263.1      AB2065            1301     Am             66650         A B 2057         713       R&Ad
56315        AB2065            1301     Am             66651         A B 2057         713       R&Ad
61452        SB 383             122     Am             66652         AB2057           713       R&Ad
61623.4      S B 241            629     Ad             66653         A B 2057         713       R&Ad
61770        A B 471            538     Ad             66654         A B 2057         713       Ad
61770.5      A B 471            538     Ad             66655         A B 2057         713       Ad
61771        A B 471            538     Ad             66656         A B 2057         713       Ad
61772        A B 471            538     Ad             66657         A B 2057         713       Ad
61773        A B 471            538     Ad             66658         A B 2057         713       Ad
61774        A B 471            538     Ad             66659         A B 2057         713       Ad
61775        A B 471            538     Ad             66660         A B 2057         713       Ad
61776        A B 471            538     Ad             66660.1       A B 2057         713       Ad
61777        A B 471            538     Ad             66661         A B 2057         713       Ad 2 3 9
61778        A B 471            538     Ad             67410         AB1298          1547       Ad
61779        A B 471            538     Ad             67411         A B 1298        1547       Ad
61780        A B 471            538     Ad             67412         A B 1298        1547       Ad
65012.1      A B 387            138     Am, S "        67413         A B 1298        1547       Ad
65013.2      A B 387            138     Am, S "        67414         AB1298          1547       Ad
65017.1      A B 387            138     Am & RN,       67415         A B 1298        1547       Ad
                                        gl7            67416         A B 1298        1547       Ad
65017.2      AB                                        67417         A B 1298        1547       Ad
                       387      138     Am & RN,
                                                       67418         A B 1298        1547       Ad
                                        g!7            67419         A B 1298        1547       Ad
65017.3      AB        387      138     Am & RN,       67420         A B 1?98        1547       Ad
                                        S"             67421         A B 1298        1547       Ad
65018.1      AB        387      138     R, S »         67422         A B 1298        1547       Ad 17B
65018.2      AB        387      138     R, S »                       AB1298                     Ad1M
                                                       67423                         1547
65018.3      AB        387      138     R, S »                       S B 445                    Am
                                                       68097.1                        172
65019.3      AB        387      138     Am & RN,       68097.2       S B 445          172       Am
                                        g!7                          S B 466          342       Am (by
65020.4      A B 387            138     A m , S17                                               Sec 2
65302        A B 2028           932     Am                                                      of C h . )
65303        SB 383             122     Am                            S B 1265       1187       Am (by
66503        A B 387            138     Am, S "                                                 Sec. 2
66601        A B 2057           713     Am                                                      of C h . )
66602        AB2057             713     Ad              68203         S B 1123       1507       Am
66602.1      A B 2057           713     Ad              68204         S B 363        1599       Am
66603        A B 2057           713     Am                            A B 662        1600       Am28
66604        A B 2057           713     Am              68500.5       A B 1300       1449       Am
66605        AB2057             713     Ad              68512         AB1300         1449       Ad
66605.1      A B 2057           713     Ad              68808         S B 136          38       R
66606        AB2057             713     Ad              68841         AB1300         1449       Am
66606.5      AB2057             713     Ad              68901         A B 1300       1449       Am
66606.6      A B 2057           713     Ad              69104         A B 1031       1487       Am
66607        A B 2057           713     Ad              69109         S B 136          38       R
66610        AB2057             713     Am              69140         AB1300         1449       Am
66611        AB2057             713     Ad              69580         A B 739        1486       Am
66620        AB2057             713     R&Ad            69582         A B 1799       1491       Am
66622        A B 2057           713     Am              69591         S B 1420       1485       Am
66630        A B 2057           713     Am              69595         A B 1194       1490       Am
66630.1      AB2057             713     Ad 4 9          69599.5       S B 484        1480       Am20
66631        A B 2057           713     Am              69600         S B 766        1482       Am
66632        A B 2057           713     Am              69846.5       S B 503        1610       A d , S18
 17
 18
    See Sec. 311.5   of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
     Operative on July 1, 1970.
 »28 Operative July 1, 1970.
  48
     Operative January 1, 1971.
JT
     Report to Governor and Legislature by fifth legislative day of each Regular Session commencing in 1971.
   * Commission shall terminate on 91st day after final adjournment of 1972 Regular Session.
175 progress report to Governor and Legislature not later than fifth legislative day of 1971 Regular Session and
        final report not later than fifth legislative day of 1972 Regular Session re Southern California trans-
        portation study.
s
 38 Report to Governor and Legislature by flfth legislative day of each regular session commencing not later
        than 1971 Regular Session.
                                                                                                                                              —a*3—1         «-^—5<|<| 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 SB 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05
KltS       tOtOIO                                   M » H N I M K I - 1 M H H © 0 0 0 0 © 0 0 0 0                                             © © ©            © © © © o ? © © © C O C O © © © C O C 0 © © © © ©
                                                    O 5 © © © 0 5 O J © M M M M M M M I - i M © © © ©                                         © © ©           ©©OOCDCOCDCOCDCOCOCOCCCOOCPCOODQCOD
                                                    © U t G t C t - 3 © M G 0 ^ ^ £ > . h £J . > £ . ^ C O © O t O t O \ O *                  0*C7*>&         ^>£>jL£3:£:O©CDCPC0©©©©CP©©©©©
                                                    M » K I - ' O I C t e o p O O [ l - ' h i M C 5 n O H « 0                                 ©©00            —I©ppOlt*-**'Srfk[^*'h&^*-03©CIhl^[-'
                                                       MOI             osotcoi-»        M M - I C S                       bo                  ^•qbi             I O M      ioGo^iosbikcoioM                     M M
                                                                                        M ©

5eb*h*50 5otH                               50b*IK50503enC5050b*b*b*b*b»b*b*h»b>a2b*b>!7!                                                     sob*b*b*b»>b*5Eb»b*b*b*b»b»b*b*b*b*j>a3b>.b*>.b»
WtdtdWMW                                    W w W W W W W W W M W W t d W W t d W W M W W t d                                                 W W W W W W W W W W t d W W W W W t d W t d t d W W W W
  to to                                        M                      tO        tO lO tO tO t o tO tO M                                          tOtOMtOtO        t o tO tO tO IO tO tO tO tO tO tO M t o tO tO
Ce©©00-«O                                   ^ M t o o o g c o M t 0 2 t o t o ^ © 5 © © © © c o © - 5 c o                                     c o o © - j © © © s ; © © © © © © © © © © © t o © © © M
©05 05©Ol*-                                 Ot CO *• CO © CO tO tO © tO - t tO 05 05 05 5 05 05 © © © GO                                      CO©©CDO5©00©©O5©Q5O5©O5O5O505©tO©©C5©
M05PMM05                                    Mh£-CO©COCO-1-qCOC5~l©05050535©©M©©CO                                                             CO0505©0505CDM©C5©0505C50505050505M05O505©

    M M        M M                          M M M M M                                                                                             |_i |_i |_i h-i |_i         |_ihj|_i|_i^a^a^|_i|_i|_it_i|-i|_iMMM
- 3 CO CO - 3 © >**•                        C 5 h_£ -,^„* *, 0- 5, M
                                                                   „ , , 0 5 ~ 1 CO CO CO CO CO CO CO 05 CO lf>. M                            MC0CO^C0C0tO05COC0COC0COCOC0COC0C0C0MCOCOCOtO
© © © © © - J                               ge-3gMta-q-jMooteo!i©©©©©©*.©cots                                                                 tO©©©©©CO*^©©©©©©©©©©©5C©©©M
- i to t o - 5 t o - a                      to©-]«o©too©©©-a©tototototototofiMto                                                              tototOMtoto-^totototototototototototo^toioto-}


b* b* 50 > • > • i s - O S O b a - M M o ' 50 h * 50 b* > • > • b > b * b » b * b » b * b > . b » b » b » b * b » b > b * b » b > c O M a 2 ^ . b»b*b>.b*b*b>.b>. b» b * b * b * b » b » b » b * > - ! > • > . « & * > • ! > > • ! > > -
B *        B
           3 %sB Sp F
                    - g o3 B
                           S g
                             S lgc ^- 3
                                      B                ft ft
                                                        . B        B 3 P B B 3           &
                                                                                             B 3 B 3 B B B 3               &
                                                                                                                               ^ S ? i        B B B 3 3 3 B B B                0.0.0.0.       a. o.a.o.a^B               g B g g
                                                                          50

                          a^ p*? B
COCOC0COCOCOCOCOCOCOWCOCOC003C0C0C0COCOCOCOC0COCOC0C0C0C0COCOCOC0COCOCO

C5CT*.C0tOl*"-GCCOC0C0IOM                        M^tOMaCCO^M©©©GO^©CnC1CTC^OTOl^^^h^tfc-©CI<COl4^COtOMMMtOM©«50X*.*.COtOtOM-J©Ot©
              M<tOt     M                                  OIM       ©Ot*.C0tOMOI*.C0tOM  ©       OtM


b*b*b*b»b*b*b»b»b*b>b>b»b*b*b>b*b*b*b»b*b»b*b»!>b*b^
wwwwBwwwwwwMwawwwwwwwwBaawwwwww
^^^tOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOMMMMMMMMMtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOM




M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M                   M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M M
COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO^ ^^h^^GOaOOOGOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO^                      -3-1-3 ~1-fl-]-3
© © © © © © © © © © © © © e O C p © ^ > ^ * - 4 * . © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © t p * - © © © © Q © ©    © © © © © © © © © © © © © ©
JOIOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOMMMMMtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtoKtOtOtOtON5tOtObO©©^-<l-l-J^--l-5 ^ H H H H - t - t * J ^ H H ^ H " t


b * b * b * b * b » b » b » J i j b * M : M , b > b * b * b * b * b > b * b * b » b » b * b * b * ! > p* b» b* b» b» j > b* b> b» b* b» b»b»b» b> b» b» b» b>- b » b * b > - b > b * b * b » b * i > - b » b > - b .b»b»b»b*b»
B 3 B 3 B 3 ° > B s^goB                          B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B S B ^ B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B B E BBBBB
                           a-
CO
                                 5                                                                                                                                                         a
                   H                                                                                                                                       H
             a a a a a a * "a a a a l a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a s a ' a a a a a a a a%%%>%%%%%%% a a a a a a a                                                                                                          is G a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %°&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t* ^   <n


            <N««lN£»N2!^WeQlN^NlNMCSt-CMMlNb-b-b-t-b-b-
            OQOOOOOOOOQ      © ©$©0© 0
                                     © ©0• «0^ *
                                               © "0
                                                  ©C0i c o c o c o c o e o c o
            co co co co co co co co co co COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOINCMIN<N<NCNI
                                             —        '
            t-( r-l rH r-i rH r-l rH r ' ' '                                                                                                                                                                                           -««
w
P3          CO CO CO CO CO
W      V
       3
cu          IN £5 IN O CM IN <N CM CM IN C\ CM (M CM CM CM             CMCMCM                "                 " CM N CM CM CM IN CM IN <N IN CM CM IN CM N IN IN IN IN CM IN IN IN CM CM CM CM IN CM CM
      #C

<!          ttfflP3fflMfflra«««M«mm«Mffl«MM«fflM^
       e                                                                                                                                                                                                                            «8 « Sc 6c S«
o     o
 ON   u               •JCM                                                                                                                                                                                                          ^ C " ^ ^
NO                                                                                                                    IN
C\          l. N
               , O T C C C 0. ' ^ O l N b -.Hf-tflOSTtH
                                              ^05r^»iNC03l^
                                                          0O5 fS<Nl T t i<TTt |fiOOrrHHl lNNCCO0^- l*O
                                                                                                     1O0®
                                                                                                        CCO 0^ ^
                                                                                                               CCO0M l N C O i N C O l N CI O
                                                                                                                                            CO- S^llO
                                                                                                                                                    OOCOb-OOlOCOb-OOCSOiHCMCO^TfHlOcpb-'tflOCp
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P s. oS rt 3
l-H         Tf^-^^-^lOlQlQCOCDCOt-b-©© ©rH^^TPcoco<»cOco©cob-b-C505©©cMiN©©                                                                 ~ © © < ^: © o o r - i r - f i - i T - i i H W i N o i e a i N ^ T j ^ T t K i Q S
            COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOlOW lOOCOCOCOCDCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCOCDCDb-b-b-t-aOOOOOOOO                                   . .. _                    lOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCJCSC»
PQ    o      TP ^P ^ ^ Ttl Tt* ^ "^ ^ ^ T}* ^ Tt* ^ ^ ^T TH ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^f "^f ^ ^ ^ ^ f ^ ^t* ^t* TH Tt* ^t* ^ ^fl ^ "^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^P ^f ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^t* ^t* ^ ^ ^ ^f Tt* Tt*
            b-b-!>-b-l>-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-t-b-b-b-t-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-t-b-l>b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b^
a     O
K
      u                                                                                                                                                                                                                             *- O            ei-.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    °OJHO °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -*J _ , 'S3 CO + j
w                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   §3—— a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g s c c p
ft                                                     ssaassaaaa'saaa*®**                                            aasasaaaaaaaaassasaaaaaaaasaa
•«1   s      3 !L assess                                                                                                                                                                                                            ^i? ^ ^ 3

V,    ztt
      Ul
r>
f—i         CMCMCMcMCMCMCMcNlCM                                                                                                                                                                                                      - a> u o tc!
      >
o     0     COCOCOCMCMOOCOCMlN
            iHT-lr-lrHrti-lr-tr-lrH                   THiHrHrHiHrHrHrHiHr-liHr-ll-lTHiHiHTHT-lrHTHrHrHrHT^rHrHrHT-IHr-lT-lrHr^r-lr
02    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rt a « *         &
            COCO CO • * * * CD CO Tt< Tf<            «O
                                                     COCOCDCOOCOCOCOCOCDCDCDCOCOCOCOCO
                                                             3              3
                                                                                                                                            sco^cocococococpcoc                    JCO^COCOCOCOCOCOCOTH-*
            CO 3? ¥ IN IN g? CO I N I N              —
                                                      _o©*S8SSS8SSiiS88f§8S8SSS8SSSSgSSSgSSS8gg8SiS5J^
                                                      g?CO —

                                                      CMlNlNiNlNCMCMCMlNCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMCMlNCMlNlNCMeMlNTHCMeMiNCMCMCMCMCMINCMTHCM
            MW«P3eq«Wfflpq
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * c ^ c3 ce s


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ^ CP « eC (5 "g
            I^OO©NeOiNeOCMe0^2*liCMeOoOC»THCOb-iNe0^lNCOWCMeO^>OiHlNTt<infMeOoOC»rHCMCO                                                                         'iNTtHOCOb-OOOlrHINCO-.                       I N COIN CO         fi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O ^s£ tQJ. t^
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             eu "£ »S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a> S3
            O O O O O T I N C M C O C O © © * " . g ^ ^ ^ ^ b - b - b - a 0 C p & b - b - 0 0 C M C M C M C M i - f r - l r - f T - i l O l f l l O I O © © © _ >C0COC0COCOC0C00iC5©C                         iNiNOO
            •fl-f^lOlQlOlQCOCOB              • * ; g C O C O C O C O C O C O C D C O S c O b - b - b - 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 C » 0 5 C » t J i 0 3 0 5 0 5 0 0 0 0 r-l M i-( r-l i H ^ rH i-l i H i-l W r-l i-l CM i N CO CO
            COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO'^^ < , j ^COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO^TtH^i^ ' ^ • ^ T t l ^ ^ T j H T t H T t H ^ T ^ ^ ^ t l T P ^ T t l ' ^ ' ^                                                            J3 g 5 S8 3
            b-b-l>b-b-b-^-b-b-C^Q' ; ^^b-b-b-b-b-b-b-t-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-                                                                  b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-b-
342                       SECTIONS AFFECTED BY ^ 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                           GOVERNMENT CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                                        Bill      Chapter
Section           No.       No.           Eifect         Section          No.        No.           Effect

74907        AB2066         1302       Am              74939         AB2066          1302      Ad
74908        AB2066         1302       Am              74940         AB2066          1302      Ad
74912        AB2066         1302       Am              74941         AB2066          1302      Ad
74922        AB2066         1302       Am              74942         AB2066          1302      Ad
74923        AB2066         1302       Am              74943         AB2066          1302      Ad
74924        AB2066         1302       Am              74944         AB2066          1302      Ad
74925        AB2066         1302       Am              74945         AB2066          1302      Ad
74934        AB2066         1302       Ad                                             964
74935        AB2066         1302       Ad              75060.2       SB 256                    Ad
74936        AB2066         1302       Ad              75090.2       AB 208           166      Ad
74937        AB2066         1302       Ad              75104         AB 448           470      Am
74938        AB2066         1302       Ad              75106.5       AB 191           281      Am




                         HARBORS AND NAVIGATION CODE
                  Bill     Chapter                                        Bill      Chapter
Section           No.       No.           Effect         Section          No.        No.           Effect

   63.6      AB 387          138       Am, S "            681.8      A B 759          824      Am
   76.1      AB 816         1249       Am, S              681.10     AB 758           578      Ad
   77.3      AB 816         1249       Am                 682        AB2294           371      R
   78.3      AB 816         1249       Am, S              682.2      AB 1827         1354      Am 1 »
   78.6      A B 816        1249       Am
  652        AB 504          146       Am140              682.8      AB 1827         1354      Am 1 »
  663.7      AB 1827        1354       Ad                 683        A B 1246         764      Am
  673        AB 503          145       Ad                 722        AB 1072          758      Ad
  674        A B 503         145       Ad                 723        AB1072           758      Ad
  680.1      A B 701         818       Am1               6080        A B 1471         768      Am
  681        AB 1827        1354       Am140
                                           »             6084        AB 1471          768      Am
  681.4      A B 1827       1354       Am                6350.4      SB 1307          280      Am*

  * Effective immediately.
 17
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
"° Eeport of results of study re certain patrolling of waterways to Legislature on or before February 1, 1970.
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                            343

                                 HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
                   Bill       Chapter                                       Bill      Chapter
Section            No.         No.          Effect        Section           No.        No.           Effect

    100     A B 387             138     Am, S "              427.11 S B 338             290      R*a
    209     S B 401             266     Am                   427.12 S B 338             290      R*ia
    210     AB2204             1618     Am                   427.13 S B 338             290      R*a
    217     AB1894              572     Am               Divl,
    253.5   A B 229            1527     Ad20             P t . 1,
    270     A B 931             330     Ad*a             Ch. 2,
    280     AB    11             73     S                Art. 13
    281     AB    11             73     B                (heading) S B 138               39      Ad
    290     A B 2026           1563     Ad                   429.30 S B 1397           1380      A*
    291     A B 2026           1563     Ad                   429.31 SB 1397            1380      Ad
    292     A B 2026           1563     Ad                   431.6   A B 1456           326      R
    293     A B 2026           1563     Ad                   431.7   A B 1456           326      R
    304     A B 2026           1563     Ad                   431.8   A B 1456           326      R
    305     A B 2026           1563     Ad161                431.9   A B 1456           326      R
    388     AB1087             1059     Am                   432.5   A B 293            498      Am
Div. 1,                                                      436     S B 334            970      Ad
P t . 1,                                                     436.1   S B 334            970      Ad
Oh. 2,                                                       436.2   SB 334             970      Ad
Art. 7.5 ( commencing                                        436.3   S B 334            970      Ad
415)        A B 148            1476     S                    436.4   S B 334            970      Ad
Div. 1,                                                      436.45 S B 334             970      Ad
P t . 1,                                                     436.5   S B 334            970      Ad
Oh. 2,                                                       436.6   S B 334            970      Ad
Art. 7.5                                                     436.7   S B 334            970      Ad
(heading A B 225               1594     Am                   436.8   S B 334            970      Ad
    415     A B 225            1594     R                    436.9   S B 334            970      Ad
    415.1   A B 225            1594     R                    436.10 S B 334             970      Ad
    415.2   A B 225            1594     R                    436.11 S B 334             970      Adiu
    415.3   A B 225            1594     R                    436.12 S B 834             970      Ad
    415.4   A B 225            1594     R                    436.13 S B 334             970      Ad
    415.5   A B 225            1594     R                    436.14 S B 334             970      Ad
    415.6   A B 225            1594-    R                    436.15 S B 334             970      Ad
    416.2   A B 225            1594     R                    436.16 SB 334              970      Ad
    416.3   A B 225            1594     R                    436.17 S B 334             970      Ad
    416.4   A B 225            1594     R                     436.18 SB 334             970      Ad
    416.24 A B 225             1594     R                    436.19 S B 334             970      Ad
    427     S B 338             290     R* 2 *                436.20 S B 334            970      Ad
    427.1    SB 338             290     R*21                  436.21 S B 334            970      Ad
    427.2   S B 338             290     R*a                   436.22 S B 334            970      Ad
    427.3    S B 338            290     R* a                  436.23 S B 334            970      Ad
    427.4    S B 338            290     R* a             > 436.24 S B 334               970      Ad
    427.5    SB 338             290     R*»                   436.25 S B 334            970      Ad
     427.6   S B 338            290     R*21                  436.26 S B 334            970      Ad
     427.7   S B 338            290     R* 2 *                436.27 S B 334            970      Ad
     427.8   SB 338             290     R*21                  436.28 S B 334            970      Ad 8 "' 110
    427.9    S B 338            290     R*>a                  436.50 A B 789           1421      Ad, S218' m
     427.10 SB 338              290     R*a                   436.51 A B 789           1421      Ad, S220' m
  * Effective immediately.
  2
 17
    Operative July 1,1969.
     See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
  «Operative
  21
                July 1 1970.
  88
     Operative  on July 1, 1969.
     Report to Legislature re health facility construction loan insurance by fifth legislative day of 1974 Regular
 110
        Session.
     Beginning July 1, 1974, no limit on authorization of department of public health to insure health facility
 U1
         construction loans.
     Department of public health may, for five years after the effective date of chapter, accept and approve
         applications for insurance of health facility construction loans executed during the period from and
 191
        including November 5, 1968, to the effective date of this chapter.
     Report on number of cases of rhesus (Rh) isoimmunization hemolytic disease to Legislature on fifth
 219
        legislative day of 1971 Regular Session.
     On or before July 1, 1970, state board of public health shall adopt rules and regulations re certain
 220
         operation of laboratories.
 221
     On and after Januaiy 1, 1971 certain blood alcohol tests to be performed only by approved laboratories.
     On and after January 1, 1971, State Department of Public Health shall enforce provisions of chapter, and
        rules and regulations of board.
344                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                      HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE—Continued
                   Bill      Chapter                                          Bill     Chapter
Section            No.        No.              Effect        Section          No.       No.            Effect
                                                   221
 436.52      AB 789           1421         Ad, S             1709     SB 660            1005       S
 436.53      A B 789          1421         Ad, S221          1710     SB 660            1005       S
 436.54      AB 789           1421         Ad, S221          1711     SB 660            1005       S
 436.55      AB 789           1421         Ad, S221
                                                 221
                                                     -222    1711.1   S B 660           1005       S
 436.56      AB 789           1421         Ad, S221          1712     SB 660            1005       S
 436.57      AB 789           1421         Ad, S221          1713     S B 660           1005       S
 436.58      AB 789           1421         Ad, S             1714     SB 660            1005       S
 436.59      A B 789          1421         Ad, S221
                                                 2al
                                                             1715     SB 660            1005       S
 436.60      AB 789           1421         Ad, S221          1716     SB 660            1005       S
 436.61      AB 789           1421         Ad, S221          1717     SB 660            1005       S
 436.62      AB 789           1421         Ad, S221          1718     S B 660           1005       S
 436.63      AB 789           1421         Ad, S             1719     S B 660           1005       s
 437         AB1404           1550         Am                1720     SB 660            1005       s
 437.1       AB 1404          1550         Am                1721     SB 660            1005       s
 437.2       AB 2294           371         Am                1722     SB 660            1005       R
             AB 1404          1550         Am               Div. 2,
  437.4      AB1404           1550         Am               Ch. 9
  437.5      A B 1775         1457         Am               (heading) AB 1596           1084       Am
  437.7      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S218          1756     AB 470             306       Am1 2 1
  437.8      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S             1760     AB1596            1084       Ad
  437.9      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S             1761     AB1596            1084       Ad 12 ». ™
  438        AB1340           1451         Ad, S             1762     AB1596            1084       Ad 1 2 1
  438.1      A B 1340         1451         Ad, S             2104     SB 138              39       Am
  438.2      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S             2248     A B 121             42       Am
  438.3      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S             2283.5   SB 126             288       Ad
  438.4      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S            Div. 4,
  438.5      A B 1340         1451         Ad, S            Ch. 5
  460        SB 540            269         Am               (com-
  543        SB 402            267         Ad               mencing
                                                                                                    glS
  704        AB 538            406         Am                3279)    A B 632             811
 1110        AB 997           1263         Am                3279.1   AB 632              811      Ad 1 8
 1402.1      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S             4179.3   SB 206               69      Am 8
 1402.2      AB 1340          1451         Ad, S             4430     S B 199              79      Ad
 1416        AB2294            371         R                 4431     SB 199               79      Ad
 1426        SB 709            573         Ad                4432     S B 199              79      Ad
 1457        SB 183            677         Am                4433     SB 199               79      Ad
 1661        SB 138             39         Am                4458     A B 413             482      R&Ad2"
 1700        SB 660           1005         S                 4618     AB 2056             600      Am*
 1701        SB 660           1005         S                 4650     AB2065             1301      Ad
 1702        SB 660           1005         s                 4746.2   AB 942              419      Ad*
 1703        SB 660           1005         s                 4746.3   AB 942              419      Ad*
 1704        SB 660           1005         s                 4746.4   AB 942              419      Ad*
 1705        SB 660           1005         s                 4766     SB 138               39      Am
 1706        SB 660           1005         s                 4786.6   SB 138               39      R
 1707        SB 660           1005         s                 4794.1   SB 138               39      R
 1707.1      S B 660          1005         s                 4794.2   SB 138               39      R
 1707.2      SB 660           1005         s                 4794.5   SB 138               39      R
 1707.3      SB 660           1005         s                 4806.5   A B 1473            881      Ad
 1707.4      SB 660           1005         s                 4808.5   A B 1473            881      Ad
 1707.5      SB 660           1005         s                 4891     A B 2231            782      Am
 1708        SB 660           1005         s                 4894     A B 2231            782      Am
 1708.1      SB 660           1005         s                 4894.1   AB 2231             782      Ad
 * Effective immediately.
  8
 18
    Effective until 91st day after   final adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
 26
    Operative on July 1, 1970.
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
120
    Report to Legislatuie by January 1, 1973, on the Emergency Medical Services Program and report every
121
        odd-numbered year thereafter.
318
    Article  shall terminate if federal funds for the program become unavailable.
    Health Planning Council shall adopt certain guidelines within 90 days of effective date of act; voluntary
        area health planning agencies shall adopt certain guidelines by July 1, 1970.
m
    On and after January 1, 1971, State Department of Public Health shall enforce provisions of chapter, and
        rules and regulations of board.
w
    On or after January 1, 1971, Department of Public Health shall annually publish a list of approved and licensed
        laboratories.
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                            345
                    HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE—Continued
                 Bill         Chapter                                         Bill    Chapter
Section          No.           No.            Effect         Section          No.      No.           Effect
                                               28
 5410     A B 413              482          Am              11925.3       AB1698       1091      Ad
 5463     SB 316              1362          Am28, S1M       11925.4       AB1698       1091      Ad
 5465     A B 2083            1564          Ad89            12020         A B 1713      568      Am
 5473.9   A B 929              318          Am              12091         S B 138        39      Am
 5474.21 SB 722                349          Am                            AB 1713       568      Am
 5474.30 SB 721               1017          Am              12101         AB 1713       568      Am
 6241.1   A B 814              413          Ad              12103         A B 1713      568      Am
 6491.2   SB 138                39          Am              12150.5       AB 1713       568      Am
 6580.1   S B 1223             719          Am              12503         S B 138        39      Am
 6646     S B 501              194          Am*             12761         AB 854        756      Am
 6649     SB 501               194          Am*             13025.5       SB 138         39      R
 7100     SB 633               999          Am              13100         AB 387        138      Am, S "
 7113     SB 938              1132          Am              13110         AB 387        138      Am, S "
 7114     SB 938              1132          Am              13113         S B 303       661      Am
 7153     S B 526              268          Am              13114         A B 307       798      Am
 7154     SB 526               268          Am              13143.1       A B 1873      919      Ad"
Div. 7,                                                 '   13144.1       AB 307        798      Am
P t . 2,                                ,                   13144.2       A B 307       798      Am
Ch.2                                                        Div. 12,                            _^
(heading) S B 138                39 R                       P t . 2,
 8560.1   SB 138                 39 R                       Ch. 1,
 8738     SB 460                983 Am                      Art. 3
 9507     SB 628                737 Am                       (heading) SB 138            39      Ad ( R N )
 9508     SB 628                737 Am                      13150      SB 138            39      Ad ( R N )
 9509     S B 628               737 Am                      13151      S B 138           39      Ad ( R N )
10360     SB 252               1608 Am, S26                 13152      SB 138            39      Ad ( R N ) -
10361     SB 252               1608 Am, S2283               13153      S B 138           39      Ad ( R N )
10362     SB 252               1608 Am.S 28                 Div. 12,
10363     SB 252               1608 Am, S 28                P t . 2,
10364     S B 252              1608 Am, 26S                 Ch. 1,
10365     SB 252               1608 R, S 28                 Art. 4
10366     SB 252               1608 Am, S                    (heading) S B 138            39     Ad&RN
                                            26
10368      SB 252              1608 Am, S28                 13180      S B 138            39     Am&RN
10369      S B 252             1608 Am, 28
                                         S                                                       (as ad by
10370      S B 252             1608 R, S                                                         Stats. 1967,
10371      SB 252              1608 Am, S26                                                      Ch. 1127)
10433     A B 714               485  Am                      13181         S B 138        39     Am&RN
10433.2   A B 714               485  Ad                                                          (as ad by
10433.3 A B 714                 485 Ad                                                           Stats. 1967,
10614      A B 714               485 Ad                                                          Ch. 1127)
11333      AB1264                429 Am*                     13182         S B 138        39     Am&RN
11653      A B 1698            1091  Am                                                          (as ad by
11655.5    AB1264                429 Am*                                                         Stats. 1967,
          A B 1958             1297  Am (by                                                      Ch. 1127)
                                     Sec. 2 of               13183         S B 138        39     Am&RN
                                     Ch.)                                                         (as ad by
11657        AB1698            1091  Am                                                          Stats. 1967,
11904        A B 1698          1091  Ad                                                          Ch.1127)
11911        A B 189            403  Am                      13833         AB 146        232     Am
11912        A B 189            403  Am                      13834         AB 146        232     Ad
11913        A B 189            403  Am                      13844         A B 585       206     Am, S 8
11920        A B 1339           869  Ad                      13866         AB2294        371     Am
11921        A B 1339           869  Ad                      13948         AB2064        466     Am
11922        AB 1339            869  Ad                                    AB2065       1301     Am
11923        A B 1339           869  Ad                      13952         AB2064        466     Am
11925        A B 1698          1091  Ad                      13953         AB2064        466     Am
11925.1      AB 1698           1091  Ad                      17911         A B 1971     1422     Am
11925.2      AB1698            1091  Ad                      17922         AB 715        820     An\
  * Effective immediately.
  8
 17
    Effective until 91st day after final adjournment    of 1971 Regular Session.
 29
    See Sec. 311 5 of Ch re conflicting provisions.
 28
    Operative  on January 1, 1970.
     Operative January 1, 1971.
  <" Effective until 91st day after final adjournment of 1973 Regular Session.
  s« Effective until December 31, 1973.
 148
     See Sec. 12 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
346                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                     HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE—Continued
                  Bill       Chapter                                           Bill      Chapter
Section           No.         No.           Effect          Section            No.        No.              Effect
                                                                                                          106
18008        AB 309             799      Am                25672          SB 1056         1504       Ad
18012        AB 309             799      Am                25673          SB 1056         1504       Ad 106
18211        AB 309             799      Am                25674          SB 1056         1504       Ad l o e
18213.5      SB 1125          1165       Ad                25675          S B 1056        1504       Ad 106
18214        SB 1125          1165       Am                25676          S B 1056        1504       Ad™
18218        AB 309             799      Am 1              25677          SB 1056         1504       Ad 106
18502        AB 1546          1553       Am "              25678          S B 1056        1504       Ad 106
19124        AB 1547          1394       Am                25679          SB 1056         1504       Ad 100
19132.3      AB 1547          1394       Am                25680          SB 1056         1504       Ad 1 0 8
19150        AB1547           1394       Am18              25681          S B 1056        1504       Ad™
                                                                                                       106
19955        AB 1929          1560       Ad                25682          SB 1056         1504       Ad
19956        AB 1929          1560       Ad18              25683          S B 1056        1504       A( J109, 228

19957        AB 1929          1560       Ad18              25684          SB 1056         1504       A d ™ ' 220
19958        AB 1929          1560       Ad M              25685          SB 1056         1504       A d ™ ' 229
19960        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25686          SB 1056         1504       Ad 106
19961        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25687          SB 1056         1504       Ad 109
19965        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25688          S B 1056        1504       Ad 109
19966        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25689          S B 1056        1504       Ad™
19967        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25690          SB 1056         1504       Ad 100
19968        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25691          S B 1056        1504       Ad 100
19969        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25692          SB 1056         1504       Ad 106
19970        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25694          S B 1056        1504       Ad 106
19971        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25695          SB 1056         1504       Ad™
                                                                                                       106
19972        AB 1971           1422      Ad                25696          SB 1056         1504        Ad
19973        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25697          SB 1056         1504        Ad 106
19974        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25698          SB 1056         1504        Ad 106
19975        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25699          SB 1056         1504        A d ™ ' 230
19976        A B 1971          1422      Ad                25699.1        S B 1056        1504        Ad™
19977        A B 1971          1422      Ad                25699.2        S B 1056        1504        Ad™ 17
19980        AB 1971           1422      Ad                25730          AB 387            138       Am, S17
19981        AB 1971           1422      Ad                25730.2        A B 387           138       Ad, S 17
19982        AB 1971          1422       Ad                25730.4        AB 387            138       Ad, S
19983        AB 1971           1422      Ad                25730.6        AB 387            138       Ad, S17"
19984        AB 1971           1422      Ad                25730.8        A B 387           138       Ad, S 17
19990        AB 1971           1422      Ad                25731          A B 387           138       Am, S17
19991        AB 1971           1422      Ad                25732          A B 387           138       Am, S17
19992        AB 1971           1422      Ad                 25733         AB 387            138       Am, S 17
19993        AB 1971           1422      Ad                 25734         AB 387            138       Am, S17
 19994       AB 1971           1422       Ad                25735         A B 387           138       Am, S 17
 19995       AB 1971           1422       Ad                25736         AB 387            138       Am, S17
 19996       AB 1971           1422      Ad                 25738         A B 387           138       Am, S17
 19997       AB 1971           1422      Ad                 25739         AB 387            138       Am, S17
20111         SB 984           1048      Am*                25750         AB 387            138       Am, S17
24225        AB 1874             920     Am                 25760         A B 387           138       Am, S17
24242.5      AB 988              530     Ad28               25771         AB 387            138       Am, S17
24352.5      AB 447             303      Am                 25805         AB 387            138       Am, S17
25651,       SB 404             601      Am                 25812         AB 387            138       Am, S
25660        SB 1056          1504       Ad 1 0 8           25815         AB2294            371       Am
25661        SB 1056          1504       Ad 10 »            25845         SB 138             39       Am
25663        SB 1056          1504       Ad™                25861         SB 555            666       R&Ad
25664        S B 1056         1504       Ad 109             25862          S B 555          666       Ad
25665        SB 1056           1504      Ad 106             25862.1        SB 555           666       Ad
25668        SB 1056           1504      Ad 100             25862.3        SB 555           666       Ad
25669        SB 1056           1504      Ad l o a           25862.4        SB 555           666       Ad
25670        SB 1056          1504       Adioe              25863          S B 555          666       Ad
25671        SB 1056           1504      A d ™ ' 238        25863.1        S B 555          666       Ad
 * Effective immediately.
 17
 18
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
 28
    Operative on July 1, 1970.
106
    Operative   January 1, 1971.
177
    Operative only until 61st day after final adjournment of 1975 Regular Session.
228
    Amendment     effective until 91st day after final adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
028
    Use, etc., by uncertified persons of diagnostic or therapeutic X-ray on human beings unlawful after   July 1, 1971.
230
    Certification of certain personnel qualified prior to January 1, 1971.
   Use, etc., by certain licentiates of diagnostic or therapeutic X-ray on liuman beings unlawful after January
      1, 1972.
                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                             347

                    HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE—Continued
                  Bill     Chapter                                      Bill     Chapter
 Section          Vo.       No.          Effect        Section          Ho.       No.          Effect

25880          S B 618         271    Ad              28006        A B 665         815      R*
25881          S B 618         271    Ad             28007         A B 665         815      R*
25970          AB 2323       1361      Ad            28008         A B 665         815      R*
               AB 1394       1393      Ad             28009        A B 665         815      R*
25971          AB1394        1393      Ad             28010        A B 665         815      R*
25972          AB1394        1393      Ad             28011        A B 665         815      R*
25973          AB1394        1393      Ad             28012^       A B 665         815      R*
25974          AB 1394       1393      Ad             28013        A B 665         815      R*
25975          AB1394        1393      Ad             28014        A B 665         815      R*
25976          AB 1394       1393      Ad             28015        A B 665         815      R*
25980          AB1394        1393      Ad             28360        S B 841       1031       g* M
25981          AB1394        1393      Ad             28361        S B 841       1031       S*M
25984          AB1394        1393      Ad             28362        SB 841        1031       g * 94
25984.1        AB1394        1393      Ad             28363        S B 841       1031       g * 94
25984.2        AB1394        1393      Ad             28364        S B 841       1031       g * 94
25987          AB1394        1393      Ad             28365        SB 841        1031       g* «4
25990          SB 395          975    Ad, S           28366        S B 841       1031       g * 04
25990.1        SB 395          975    Ad, s           28380        S B 841       1031       g * 94
25990.2         S B 395        975     Ad, s          28381        SB 841        1031       g * 94
25990.3         SB 395         975     Ad, s          28382        S B 841       1031       g»94
25990.5         SB 395         975     Ad, s          28383        S B 841       1031       g * 94
25990.7         SB 395         975     Ad, s          28384        S B 841       1031       g * 94
25992           SB 395         975    Ad, s          28385         S B 841       1031       g * 94
25992.3        SB 395          975    Ad, s          28386         S B 841       1031       g * 94
25992.5        SB 395          975    Ad, s          28387         S B 841       1031       g * 94
25992.7        SB 395          975    Ad. s          28388         S B 841       1031       g*«4
25992.8         SB 395         975    Ad, s           28400        SB 841        1031       g*94
25994           SB 395         975    Ad,            28401         S B  841      1031       g « 94
25994.3         SB 395         975    Ad, ss          28402        S B 841       1031       g * 94
25994.5        SB 395          975    Ad, s          28403         S B 841       1031       g* »4
25994.7        SB 395          975    Ad, s           28410        S B 841       1031       g * 94
25994.8        SB 395          975    Ad, s          28411         S B 841       1031       g*94
26243          A B 69        1522      Am IS          28411.5      S B 841       1031       g*94
                                                      28412        S B 841       1031       g® 9*
27000          AB 666        1241      Ad
27001          AB 666        1241      Ad             28413        S B 841       1031       g* M94,
27002          AB 666        1241      Ad             28414        S B 841       1031       S*
27003          AB 666        1241      Ad             28415        S B  841      1031       g * 94
27004          A B 666       1241      Ad             28416        S B  841      1031       g * 94
27005          AB 666        1241      Ad             28417        S B 841       1031       g*94
27006          AB 666        1241      Ad             28418        S B 841       1031       g * 94
27010          A B 666       1241      Ad             28430        S B 841       1031       g * 94
27011          A B 666                                28431        S B   841     1031       g * 94
                             1241      Ad             28432        S B 841       1031       g*94
27012          AB 666        1241      Ad             28433        S B 841       1031       g*94
27020          AB 666        1241      Ad             28434        S B 841       1031       g*94
27021          AB 666        1241      Ad             28440        S B 841       1031       g*94
27022          AB 666        1241      Ad             28441        S B 841       1031       g * »4
27030          AB 666        1241      Ad             28442        S B 841       1031       g * 94
27031          AB 666        1241      Ad             28443        S B 841       1031       g * 94
27032          AB 666        1241      Ad             28451        SB 841        1031       g® 94
27033          AB 666        1241      Ad             28452        S B 841       1031       g*94
27034          AB 666        1241      Ad             28455        S B 841       1031       g* »4
27040          AB 666        1241      Ad             28476        AB2067          659      Am
27041          AB 666        1241      Ad             28480        AB2067          659      Am
28000          AB 665          815     R*             32002        AB2065        1301       Am
28000J         AB 665          815     R*             32100.1      A B 2285        943      Am
28001          AB 665          815     R*             32127.2      S B 334        970       Ad, S8 3
28002          AB 665          815     R*             32132        S B 300       1478       Am*
28003          A B 665         815     R*             32135        S B 138          39      R
28004          AB 665          815     R*             32305        A B 2056        600      Am*
28005          A B 665         815     R*             33131        A B 1973      1561       Am
  * Effective immediately.
 18
 83 Operative on July 1, 1970.
    Applicable in the computation of taxes on or measured by net income ot calendar or fiscal years ending
 81
       after December 31, 1968.
    Operative at same time Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969 becomes effective.
348                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                     HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE—Continued
                  Bill       Chapter                                          Bill      Chapter
Section           No.          No.          Effect          Section           No.        No.            Effect

33142         AB 1973         1561      Ad                38058          AB 225          1594       Ad
33334         A B 1973        1561      Am                38059          AB 225          1594       Ad
33385         SB 146           955      Ad                38060          AB 225          1594       Ad
33386         SB 146           955      Ad                38061          AB 225          1594       Ad
33387         SB 146           955      Ad                38062          A B 225         1594       Ad
33388         SB 146           955      Ad                38063          AB 225          1594       Ad
33396         AB 1973         1561      Am                38100          AB 387           138       Am, S 1 '
33402         SB 146           955      Am                               SB 1286         1471       Am (as en-
33411.1       SB 146           955      Ad                                                          acted by
33411.3       SB 146           955      Ad                                                          Stats. 1969,
33411.4       SB 146           955      Ad                                                          Ch. 138)
33415         AB 1191         1489      Am*                              AB 225          1594       R&Ad
33416         A B 1973        1561      Am                38101          AB 225          1594       R&Ad
33422         SB 146           955      Am                38102          AB 387           138       Am, S "
33432         SB 146           955      Am                               AB 225          1594       R&Ad
33440         SB 146           955      Am                38103          AB 225          1594       R&Ad
33445         AB    92          95      Am*               38104          AB 225          1594       R&Ad
33646         AB 2056          600      Am*               38105          AB 225          1594       Ad
34283         AB2294           371      Am                38106          AB 225          1594       Ad
34290         AB1104           321      Am*               38107          AB 225          1594       Ad233
35102         A B 387          138      Am, S "           38150          AB 225          1594       Ad
36070         AB1008           420      Ad*               38200          AB 387           138       Am, S17
37040         A B 715          820      Ad64                             SB 1286         1471       Am (as en-
37050         AB 387           138      Am, S "                                                     acted by
37100         AB 387           138       A m , S17 •                                                Stats. 1969,
37111         AB 1977         1562       gi»
                                                                                                    Ch. 138)
37500         A B 1977        1562       Ad1»                                                       R&Ad
37501         A B 1977        1562       Ad1"                            AB 225           1594
                                                           38201         A B 387           138      Am, S "
37502         AB 1977         1562       Ad 149
37503         AB 1977         1562       Ad 149                          SB 128«          1471      Am (as en-
37504         AB 1977         1562       Ad 146                              >                       acted by
37510         AB 1977         1562       Ad 1 4 8                                                   Stats. 1969,
37511         A B 1977        1562       Ad 1 4 8                                                   Ch. 138)
37512         A B 1977        1562       Ad 149                          AB 225           1594      R&Ad
37513         AB 1977         1562       Ad 140            38202         AB 387            138      Am, S "
37514         AB 1977         1562       Ad 1 4 8                        SB 1286          1471      Am (as en-
37515         A B 1977        1562       Ad 1 4 8                                                    acted by
37516         AB 1977         1562       Ad 1 4 8                                                   Stats. 1969,
37517         AB 1977         1562       Ad 14B                                                     Ch. 138)
38000         AB 225          1594       B&Ad                            AB      225      1594      R&Ad
38001         A B 225         1594       Ad                38203         AB      225      1594      Ad
38002         AB 225          1594       Ad                38204         AB      225      1594      Ad
38003         AB 225          1594       Ad                38205         AB      225      1594      Ad2 3 1
38004         AB 225          1594       Ad                38250         AB      225      1594       Ad
38050         AB 387           138       Am, S17           38251         AB      225      1594      Ad
              AB 225          1594       R&Ad 2 2 4        38252         AB      225      1594      Ad
38051         AB 225          1594       R&Ad              38253         AB      225      1594      Ad
38052         AB 225          1594       R&Ad              38254         AB      225      1594      Ad2 3 1
38053         AB 225          1594       R&Ad              38255         AB      225      1594       Ad
38054         AB 225          1594       R&Ad              38256         AB      225      1594       Ad
38054.1       AB 225          1594       Ad                38257         AB      225      1594      Ad 2 3 2
38054.2       AB 225          1594       Ad                38258         AB      225      1594       Ad
38055         A B 225         1594       Ad                38259         AB      225      1594       Ad
38056         AB 225          1594       Ad                38260         AB      225      1594       Ad
38057         AB 225          1594       Ad                38261         AB      225      1594       Ad
 * Effective immediately.
 17
 64
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
148
    Certain painting standards to be adopted by commission by January     1, 1971.
224
    Terminates on June 30, 1972.
    By January 1, 1970, the secretary shall divide the state into areas for the purpose of planning and coordinating
       services for the mentally retarded.
281
282
    Certain financial provisions re services for the mentally retarded applicable prior to July 1, 1971.
233
    Certain   financial provisions re services for the mentally retarded applicable after July 1, 1971.
    Department of Mental Hygiene shall not be appointed as guardian of any mentally retarded person after July
       1,1971.
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                         349
                     HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE—Continued
                   Bill       Chapter                                       Bill      Chapter
Section            No.         No.         Effect         Section           No.        No.        Effect

38300        AB 387            138      Am, S "         Div. 26,
             SB 1286          1471      Am (as en-      Pt.l,
                                        acted by        Ch.4
                                        Stats. 1969,    (Sees.
                                        Oh. 138)        39080 to
             A B 225          1594      R & A 1d        39205)         AJR 8           R50#     S
38310        AB 387            138      Ad, S '         39090          SB 1298         1196     Am
             SB 1286          1471      R (as ad by     39100.3        AB 1985         1298     Ad
                                        Stats. 1969,    39107          A B 1056         847     Am
                                        Ch. 138)        39110          A B 896         1253     Ad*
38311        AB 387            138      Ad, S "         39111          A B 896         1253     Ad*
             SB 1286          1471      R (as ad by     39112          A B 1274         622     Ad*
                                        Stats. 1969,    39127          A B 1058         848     Am
                                        Ch. 138)        39129          A B 67            11     Am*
38312        A B 387           138      Ad, S17         39155          A B 1985        1298     Ad
             S B 1286         1471      R (as ad by     39175          A B 1058         848     Am
                                        Stats. 1969,    39178          AB1058           848     Am
                                        Ch. 138)        39200          S B 138           39     Am&RN
38313        A B 387           138      Ad, S "                                                 (as ad by
                              1471      R (as ad by                                             Stats. 1968,
             S B 1286                                                                           Ch. 765)
                                        Stats. 1969,
                                        Ch. 138)        39201          S B 138            39    Am&RN
39020         AB 387            138     Am, S "                                                 ( a s ad by
39052         A B 896          1253     Am (by                                                  Stats. 1968,
                                        Sec. 1 of                                               Ch. 765)
                                                        39202          S B 138           39     Am&RN
                                        Ch.)*, R,       39203          S B 138           39     Am&RN
                                        Am (by          39204          S B 138           39     Am&RN
                                         Sec. 1.5       39205          S B 138           39     Am&RN
                                        of Ch.)         39250          S B 138           39     Ad ( R N )
              AB1985           1298     Am (by          39251          SB 138            39     Ad ( R N )
                                         Sec. 1.5       39252          S B 138           39     Ad ( R N )
                                        of Ch.) 223     39253          S B 138           39     Ad ( R N )
39052.1      A B 466            650     Am*             39254          S B 138           39     Ad ( R N )
39052.2      A B 1056           847     Ad              39255          S B 138           39     Ad ( R N )
39068        AB 1985           1298     Ad              39301         -AB 2036          778     Am

 # Resolution chapter.
  • Effective immediately.
 17
   See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
** State Air Eesources Board to submit certain regulations to Legislature by January 1,1969.
350                           SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                                            INSURANCE CODE
                     Bill      Chapter                                Bill   Chapter
Section              No.         No.           Effect     Section     No.     No.      Effect
                                                     lf
   21           A B 387           138       Am, S         1391      A B 1310  1347    Am*
   44           A B 967           839       Ad            1561      AB1305     867    Ad
  100           A B 1310         1347       Am*           1627      AB 663     220    Am
  119.5         A B 1310         1347       Ad*           1628      A B 663     220   Am
  383.5         S B 479           105       Am            1637      A B 663    220    Am
  460           A B 1135          859       Am            1648      A B 663    220    Am
  484           A B 389           536       Am            1656      AB 663      220   Am
  488           A B 2144         1517   Ad                1658      A B 1718    443   Am
  660           S B 269           104   Am                1661      A B 663     220   Am
  667           A B 858           227   Am                1675      S B 455     981   Am
  704.5         A B 1438          878   Am                1697      A B 663     220   Am
  716           A B 1012          464   Am*               1704,     S B 455     981   Am
  760           A B 1159          244   Am                1712.5    SB 455     981    Am
  776           A B 357           302   Ad                1713      S B 455     981   Am
  779.2         A B 1068          422   Am                1714      S B 455     981   Am
  801           A B 1292          506   R&Ad              1735.5    AB 1071     320   Ad
  802           A B 1292          506   R&Ad              1748      A B 1221  1066    Am
                                        (RN)              1751.3    SB 455      981   Am
  803           A B 1292           506 R & A d            2071      AB1292      506   S
                                         (RN)                       AB1509    1081    S
  804           A B 1292           506  R&Ad               2074.7   AB1509    1081    Ad
                                                           2074.9   AB 1292     506   Ad
                                         (RN)                                     49
  805            A B 1292          506  Am&RN              4019     A B 278           Ad*
                                                          10090     A B 394     649   Am*
  806            A B 1292          506  Am&RN                                  1237
  807            A B 1292          506  R                           A B 558            S
                                                          10091     A B 394     649   Am*
  809            A B 1292          506  Am&RN                                  1237
  904            A B 1292          506  R                           A B 558            S
                                                          10092     A B 558    1237    S
  923.5          S B 587           705  Ad                                       649
  985            A B 692          1243  Am                10093      AB 394            Am*
                                                                     A B 558   1237    S
  986            AB 692           1243  Am                                       649
 1063            AB 1310          1347  Ad*               10094      A B 394           Am*
                                                                     A B 558   1237    S
 1063.1          AB 1310          1347  Ad*                                      649
 1063.2          A B 1310         1347  Ad*               10094.2    A B 394           Ad*
                                                                     A B 558   1237    Ad
 1063.3          AB 1310          1347  Ad*                                    1237
 1063.4          AB 1310          1347  Ad*               10095      A B 558           S
                                                          10096      A B 558   1237    S
 1063.5          AB 1310          1347  Ad*
 1063.6          AB 1310          1347  Ad*               10097      A B  558  1237    s
 1063.7          AB1310           1347   Ad*              10098      AB   558  1237    s
 1063.8          AB 1310          1347   Ad*              10099      A B 558   1237    s
 1063.9          A B 1310         1347   Ad*              10100      A B 558   1237    s
 1063.10         AB 1310          1347   Ad*              10100.1    AB 558    1237
                                                                                 649
                                                                                       s
 1063.11         AB 1310          1347   Ad*              10101      A B 394           R*
                                                                     A B 558   1237    R
 1063.12         A B 1310         1347   Ad*
 1070.6          AB 870           1055   Ad               10113      A B 1179
                                                                     AB1266
                                                                                 323
                                                                                 620
                                                                                       s
 1090            AB 870           1055   Am               10140                  620   Ad
 1215            AB 1700          1275   Ad               10141      AB 1266           Ad
                                                           10163.5   AB  2281   1574   Am
 1215.1          A B 1700         1275 Ad                            A B  111    296
 1215.2          AB 1700          1275   Ad               10176                  296   Am
                                                          10176.1    A B 111           Am
 1215.3          AB 1700          1275   Ad                          SB 579      993
 1215.4          AB 1700          1275   Ad               10203.1                993   Ad
                                                           10203.4   SB 579            Am
 1215.5          AB 1700           1275  Ad                          S B  991    644
 1215.6          A B 1700          1275  Ad                10209.3               323   Ad
                                                           10270     A B 1179          Am
 1215.7          AB 1700           1275  Ad                          AB  1179    323
 1215.8          AB 1700           1275  Ad                10270.2               422   Ad
 1215.9          AB 1700           1275  Ad                10270.505 A B 1068    105   Am
 1215.10         AB 1700           1275  Ad                10291.5   S B 479     105   Am
 1215.11         AB 1700           1275  Ad                10293     SB 479     1569   Am
 1215.12         A B 1700          1275  Ad                          AB 2218    1574   Am
 1215.13          AB 1700          1275  Ad                10489.2   AB 2281     516   Am
 1215.14          A B 1700         1275  Ad                11523.5   AB 2318       49  Ad
 1314             SB 226            103  Ad                11526     A B  278    705   Am*
 1352             S B 433           559  Am*               11556     S B 587           Am
  * Effective immediately.
  17
       See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
                               SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                     351

                                   INSURANCE CODE—Continued
                      Bill       Chapter                                  Bill   Chapter
 Section              No.         No.            Effect    Section        No.     No.        Effect

11557            SB 587            705       Am           Div. 2,
11558            S B 587           705       R&Ad         P t . 5,
11559            SB 587            705       R            Ch.3,
11560            S B 587           705       R            (heading) A B 1133       858     Ad(RN)
11561            SB 587            705       R            Div. 2,
11562            SB 587            705       R            Pt.5,
11563            SB 587            705       R            Ch.4,
11564            SB 587            705       R            (heading) A B 1133       858     Am&RN
11565            SB 587            705       R            12256     A B 1133       858     Ad
11580.1          AB 476            471       Am           Div. 2,
11580.2          SB 479            105       Am           Pt.5,
                 AB 1398           579       Am           Ch.4,
                 SB 643            668       Am           (heading) A B 1133       858     Ad(RN)
                 AB 1751          1353       Am (by       Div. 2,
                                             Sec. 4 of    Pt.5,
                                             Ch.)         Ch. 5,
11580.9         SB 265             965       Ad           (heading) A B 1133       858     Am&RN
11583           AB 984            1261       Am           12280.2   A B 1133       858     Am
11661           AB 1137           1062       Am           12282     A B 1133       858     R
11699           SB 587             705       Am           12283     A B 1133       858     R
11751           SB 433             559       Am,S*        Div. 2,
11751.25        SB 433             559       Ad*          P t . 5,
11751.55        SB 433             559       Am*          Ch. 5,
11770           AB 340             460       Am           (heading) A B 1133       858     Ad(RN)
12144           AB 1133            858       Am           Div. 2,
12153           AB1133             858       R&Ad         Pt.5,
12156           AB1133             858       R&Ad         Ch. 6,
12159           AB 1133            858       Ad           (heading) AB 1133       858      Am&RN
12160           AB 1133            858       Ad           12906     A B 387       138      Am, S "
12161           AB 1133            858       Ad           12922     A B 387       138      Am, S "
12162           A B 1133           858       Ad           12924     A B 707       819      Am
12163           AB 1133            858       Ad           12975     A B 387       138      Am, S "
12164           AB1133             858       Ad           Div. 4
12165           AB1133             858       Ad           (heading) A B 394       649      Am & R N *
12166           AB 1133            858       Ad           13000     A B 394       649      Am & R N .
12167           AB1133             858       Ad                                            Ad*
12168           AB 1133            858       Ad           13001      A B 394       649     Am & R N ,
12169           A B 1133           858       Ad                                            Ad*
12170           AB1133             858       Ad           13002      A B 394      649      Am & R N ,
12190           A B 1133           858       R                                             Ad*
                                                          13003     AB     394     649     Am & R N *
12191           A B 1133           858       R            13050     AB     394     649     Ad*
12192           AB 1133            858       R     -      13051     AB     394     649     Ad*
12193           AB 1133            858       R            13052     AB     394     649     Ad*
12194           AB1133             858       R            13053     AB     394     649     Ad*
12220           AB1133             858       R            13054     AB     394     649     Ad*
12221           A B 1133           858       R            13055     AB     394     649     Ad*
12222           AB1133             858       R            Div. 6
                                                          (heading) A B    394    649      Ad(RN)*
12223           AB1133             858       R            15000     AB     394    649      Ad(RN)*
12224           AB 1133            858       R            15001     AB     394    649      Ad(RN)*
12225           AB 1133            858       R            15002     AB     394    649      Ad(RN)*
12226           AB 1133            858       R            15003     AB     394    649      Ad(RN)*

 * Effective Immediately.
 17
      See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
352                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTEES

                                                LABOR CODE
                   BUI        Chapter                                   Bill    Chapter
Section            No.          No.           Effect   Section          No.      No.          Effect

  25          A B 393           525        Ad          3078          AB 745      313      Am
  50          AB 387            138        Am, S17     3079          A B 745     313      Am
  72          A B 340           460        Am          3080          AB 745      313      Am
  73          AB 122           1218        Am          3081          A B 745     313      Am
  96          A B 271          1529        Am          3082          A B 745     313      Am
 141          AB 340            460        Am          3083          A B 745     313      Am
 146          AB 961           1387        Ad          3084          A B 745     313      Am
 147          AB 961           1387        Ad          3093          AB 2220    1360      Am
 204          AB 1225           599        Am          3096          AB 745      313      Am
 220.2        A B 424          1230        Am          3351          A B 1036    845      Am
 432          S B 273           714        Am          3351.5        SB 1014    1133      Ad
1177          A B 122          1218        Am          3365          S B 197     213      Am
1182          AB 122           12J8        Am                        SB 532     1112      Am*
1185          SB 197            213        Am           4700         A B 1079    850      Am
1299          A B 2212         1589        Am           4702         AB 392       65      Am*
1304          AB 2212          1589        Am           4707         SB 720      639      Am
1413          A B 837          1539        Am           4708         S B 720     639      Am
1420          A B 406           609        Am (by       4709         A B 473    1616      Ad
                                           Seel         4755         SB 255      355      S*
                                           ofCh.)       4800         S B 197     213      Am
1420.5        AB1144           1063        Ad                        A B 267    1402      Am (by
1426          AB 407            526        Am                                             Seel
1684          AB1993           1094        Am                                             of Oh.)
1773.1        SB 925           1502        Am           4801         S B 197      213     Am
1773.4        AB 341            301        Am                        A B 267     1402     Am (by
1777.5        AB 957           1260        Am*                                            Sec. 2
1944          A B 860           473        Am                                             of Oh.)
2262.1        AB 853            615        R            4802         S B 197      213     Am
2262.2        AB 853            615        B                         A B 267     1402     Am (by
2262.3        A B 853           615        R                                              Sec. 3
2262.4        AB 853            615        R                                              ofCh.)
2922          A B 271          1529        Am           4803         S B 197      213     Am
2924          A B 271          1529        Am                        A B 267     1402     Am (by
3000          A B 591          1537        R                                              Sec. 4
3001          A B 591          1537        R                                              of Ch.)
3002          AB 591           1537        R            4850         SB 720       639     Am
3003          AB 591           1537        R            4851         S B 720      639     Am
3004          A B 591          1537        R            4853         SB 720       639     Am
3005          AB 591           1537        R            5908.5       AB 1870      918     Am
3070          AB 745            313        Am           6419         SB 197       213     Am
              A B 340           460        Am (by       6421         SB 539       683     Am* ^*
                                           Sec. 9       7601         SB 302       252     S
                                           of Oh.)      7602         SB 302       252     S
              A B 2220         1360        Am (by       7603         SB 302       252     S
                                           Sec. 5       7604         SB 302       252
                                           ofCh.)       7605         S B 302      252     s
3071          AB 745            313        Am           7606         S B 302      252     s
3073          AB 745            313        Am           7607         SB 302       252     s
3074          A B 2220         1360        Am           7609         SB 302       252     s
3074.5        AB 2220          1360        Am           7610         S B 302      252     s
                                                                                          R
3076          A B 745           313        Am           7611         S B 302      252
                                                                                          s
 * Effective immediately.
 17
218
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
   Certain boomstop standards to be met on and after July 1, 1970.
                           SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                    353

                             MILITARY AND VETERANS CODE
                  Bill       Chapter                                Bill    Chapter
Section           No.           No.          Effect   Section       No.      No.        Effect

  63         A B 387          138         A m , S1'    996.56    AB2294      371      Am
  85         A B 2294         371         Am           996.71    AB2294      371      Am
 163.1       A B 1220        1267         Ad           996.982   A B 886    1252      Ad3
 393         AB1350          1390         Am          1012       S B 1029   1142      Am
 399         S B 1381        1206         R           1035       S B 1026   1139      Am
 897         S B 1386        1484         Ad          1035.05    S B 1026   1139      Ad
 980         S B 988         1049         Am          1035.1     S B 1026   1139      Am
 986.36      A B 463          305         Ad          1035.2     S B 1026   1139      Ad
 987.16      A B 596         1591         Am          1035.3     S B 1026   1139      Ad
 987.16a     A B 596         1591         Ad          1035.4     S B 1026   1139      Ad
 989         ACR 70          R204#        S           1037       S B 1026   1139      Am
 989.1       ACR 70          R204#        S           1038       S B 1026   1139      Am
 991.3       AB2294           371         Am          1038.1     S B 1026   1139      Ad
 994.3       AB2294           371         Am          1039       S B 1026   1139      R
 995.4       AB2294           371         Am          1041       S B 1026   1139      R
 996.11      AB2294           371         Am          1048       S B 1026   1139      Am
 996.36      AB2294           371         Am          1509.7     S B 195     728      Am

#8 Resolution chapter.
17
   Contingent effect.
   See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.




     12—L-2180
354                       SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                                            PENAL CODE
                 Bill      Chapter                                         Bill      Chapter
Section          No.         No.,         Effect         Section           No.         No.          Effect
   17    S B 1032           1144       Am                  830.2       SB 1381        1206       Am
   71    S B 1382           1207       Ad                  830.3       SB 1413        1511       Am
   72    A B 987              545      Am                  830.4       SB 1121        1506       Am
  171c   S B 1413           1511       S                   830.5       SB 1040          645      Am
  171d   S B 1413           1511       S                   830.7       AB 1830        1458       Ad
  171f   A B 261            1528       Ad                  836.5       SB 1378        1205       Ad
  172    A B 919              529      Am                  840         AB 905           528      Am
  172a   A B 502              405      S                   849         A B 939        1259       Am
         AB 697               410      S                   851.6       SB    72       1117       Ad
  172f   S B 1063           1152       Am                  853.6       A B 939        1259       Am
  1721   A B 502              405      Ad                  853.9       AB 144            43      Am
  172.7  A B 697              410      Ad                  869.5       SB 248           118      Ad
  189    A B 1885             923      Am                  899         AB 290            64      Am
  194    SB     27            593      Am                  933.5       A B 2027         931      Am
  266h   A B 818              542      Am                  987b        A B 760        1514       Am
  266i   AB 818               542      Am                 1103a        AB 831           831      Am
  270h   SB 1342            1202       Ad                 1121         AB 465           520      Am 19
  280    A B 866            1251       Ad                 1122         AB 465           520      Am 13
  311    SB     63            249      Am                 1128         AB 465           520      Am»
                                                          1135         AB 465                        M
  311.2  SB     63            249      Am                                               520      Am13
  311.3  SB     63            249      R                  1137         AB 465           520      Am
  311.5  SB     63            249      Am                 1168         SB 523           990      Am
  311.9  SB     63            249      Am                 1203         AB 923           522      Am
  312.1  AB 1890              925      Ad                 1203d        AB 923           522      Ad
  312.5   SB    63            249      Ad                 1203.03      SB 1296        1195       Am
  313     SB    62            248      Ad                 1203.2       S B 1297         785      Am
  313.1  SB     62            248      Ad                 1203.4a      SB 133             9      Am*
  313.2   SB    62            248      Ad                 1269b        SB 133             9      Am*
  313.3  SB     62            248      Ad                 1278         AB 939          1259      Am
  313.4   SB    62            248      Ad                 1287         A B 939         1259      Am
  313.5   SB    62            248      Ad                 1295         A B 939        1259       Am
  318.5  AB 524              1534      Ad                 1305         SB 1295        1194       Am (by
  318.6  AB     61           1535      Ad                                                        Sec. 2
  407    AB 1022              365      Am                                                        ofCh.)
  409.5   AB 2256            1096      Am                          AB 939              1259      Am
  415.5  A B 534             1424      Ad*                1306     S B 1295            1194      Am
  464     S B 1020          1136       Am                 1318.1   AB 2292              944      Ad
  484d   A B 1070             423      Am                 1320     AB 939              1259      Ad
  602     AB 144               43      Am                 1324     AB 1975             1357      A m " ' "»
  602.7  AB 534              1424      It*                1328     AB 680               311      Am
  602.9   AB 534             1424      B*                 1334.2   SB 465               734      Am
  602.10 SB 496             1122       Ad                 1334.3   SB 465               734      Am
  625b    SB    11            286      Am                 1411     AB1130               857      Am
  626    A B 534             1424      Ad*                1418     AB 1130              857      Am
  626.2   AB 534             1424      Ad*                1427     AB 1741             1278      Am
  626.4   A B 534            1424      Ad*                1458     AB 939              1259      Am
  626.6      A B 534         1424      Ad*                1459     A B 939             1259      Am
  626.8      A B 534         1424      Ad*                1463     SB 849               742      S
  647        A B 401          204      Am                 1463.2   SB 849               742      Ad
             A B 2262        1319      Am (by             1508     SB 136                38      Ad
                                        Sec. 2            1529     AB 653               362      Am
                                       ofCh.)             1534     A B 653              362      Am
  653n       AB 1222          428       Ad31             Pt.3,
  800        S B ] 154       1171      Am                Title 1,
  816        A B 1494         478      Am (by
                                                         Ch. 1,
                                        Sec. 2
                                        ofCh.)           Art. 6
             S B 1378        1205      Am (by            (heading) AB 1018               421      Am
                                        Sec. 2            2046     AB1018                421      Am
                                        of Oh.)           2620     AB1074                242      Am
   * Effective Immediately,
  w
  84
     Effective until December 31, 1971.
138
     Installation or maintenance of certain two-way mirrors prohibited after April 1, 1970.
     Amendments effective until 91st day after final adjournment of 1972 Regular Session; on and after
u
         date section shall read as it did immediately prior to effective date of act.
  » Report to Legislature not later than fifth legislative day of 1972 Regular Session re use and effect of
         cedure established pursuant to amendment of section.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                   355

                                      PENAL CODE—Continued
                    Bill      Chapter                                  Bill   Chapter
Section             No.         No.           Effect    Section         No.      No.         Effect

 2621         A B 1074          242       Am           12200      S B 651     1003      Am
 2877         A B 1796          909       Am           12301      A B 566      205      Am
 2960         A B 1889          872       Ad           12400      A B 478     1231      R, S
 4018         A B 641           380       Am           12401      A B 478     1231      Am,S
 4018.1       A B 641           380       Ad           12402      A B 478     1231      Am, S
 4019         A B 641           380       Am           1240&      A B 478     1231      A m (by
 4019.2       A B 641           380       B                                             S e c . 4.5 of
 4020.4       S B 968           643       Am                                            Ch.),S
 4020.5       S B 968           643       R            12403.1    AB    478    1231     Ad, S
 4020.6       S B 968           643       R            12403.2    AB    478    1231     Ad (by
 4020.7       S B 968           643       Am                                            S e c . 6.5 of
 4020.8       S B 968           643       Am                                            Ch.),S
 4021         S B 968           643       Am           12420      A B 478      1231     Am, S
 4504         S B 678          1010       Am           12423      A B 478      1231     Am, S
 4532         S B 944           588       Am           12424      A B 478      1231     Am, S
 4570.5       A B 1075          424       Ad           12426      A B 478      1231     Am, S
 4800         A B 144            43       Am           12435      A B 378      1231     Am, S
 4804         S B 760           597       S            12450      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 4806         S B 760           597       Am           12451      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 4807         S B 760           597       Am           12452      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 4904         S B 166           704       Am           12453      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 5000         A B 387           138       Am, S "      12454      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 5003         A B 1018          421       Am           12455      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 5008         A B 1475         1272       Am           12456      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 5093         S B 615           270       Am           12457      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 6024         A B 387           138       Am, S"       12458      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
 6025         A B 387           138       A m , S 17   12570      A B 1714      772     Ad
 6028.2       A B 387           138       Am, S "      13022      A B 1623     1089     Ad
11107         A B 144            43       Am           13507      A B 1327     1072     Ad
11112         A B 144            43       Am           13510      A B 1327     1072     Am
11225         S B 151           262       Am           13512      A B 1327     1072     Am
11460         A B 574           804       Am           13514      A B 478      1231     Ad, S
12001         S B 650          1002       Am           13520      A B 1327     1072     Am
12021.6       A B 986           722       Ad 8 2       13522      A B 1327     1072     Am
12022.5       S B 137           954       Ad           13523      A B 1327     1072     Am
12027         S B 681          1012       Am           13600      S B 368      1111     R
              S B 1413         1511       S                       S B 108      1431     R
12030         A B 115           401       Am           13600.5    S B 368      1111     R
12031         S B 1122         1164       Am                      S B 108      1431     R
              S B 1413         1511       S            13601      S B 368      1111     R
12032         A B 118           789       Ad                      S B 108      1431     R
12033         A B 118                                  13602      S B 368      1111     R
                                789       Ad
                                                                  S B 108      1431     R
12050         S B 1272         1188       Am                      S B 368      1111     R
                                                       13603
12053         A B 2294          371       Am                      S B 108      1431     R
12076         S B 250          1119       Am           13800      S B 1416     1211     Am

 17
 82
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
   Not operative.
356                       SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                                           PROBATE CODE
                  Bill      Chapter                                             Bill    Chapter
Section           No.        No.           Effect          Section              No.      No.          Effect
                                            18
 125     SB     98            155       Am                 1123.6         SB 682         272      Ad
 126     SB     98            155       Am18               1123.7         SB 682         272      Ad226
  201     S B 1309            647       S                  1137           SB 1155       1172      Ad
  202     S B 1309            647       S                  1137.1         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  203     S B 1309            647       S                  1137.2         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 5
  204     S B 1309            647       Ad                 1137.3         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  228    AB1103               856       Am                 1137.4         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 5
  361     A B 212               46      Am                 1137.5         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  370     S B 900            1611       Am18               1137.6         S B 1155      1172      Ad 22B .
  380     A B 173             124       Am                 1137.7         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 5
  384     A B 173             124       Am                 1137.8         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  575     A B 567             379       Am                 1137.9         SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 3 8
  702     A B 568             177       Am                 1137.10        SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  707     SB 213              959       Am80               1137.11        SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  709     A B 1393            431       Am                 1137.12        SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  718     A B 1697            512       Am                 1137.13        SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 5
  f20     S B 213             959       Ad80               1137.14        SB 1155       1172      Ad 2 2 6
  755     A B 576             462       Am                 1240           S B 682         272     Am
  760.5   A B 576              462      Ad                 1402           AB 991          563     Am1 8
  772     A B 576              462      Am                 1435.5         SB 900        1611      Am
  780     A B 569              149      Am                 1572           SB 814          293     Am
  842     S B 673              596      Am                  1573           SB 814         293     Am
  842.1   S B 673              596      Ad                  1574           SB 814         293     Am
  860     AB1125               425      Am                  1603           SB 814         293     R&Ad
 1000     S B 750              604      Am                  1604           SB 814         293     R
 1080     A B 173              124      Am                  1702          AB 1761         552     Am
 1101     S B 900            1611       Am18                1754           SB 900        1611     Am18
Div. 3,                                                     1755           SB 900        1611     Am18
Ch. 19,                                                     1803.5         SB   21         67     Ad
Art. 1                                                      1853           AB 1761        552     Am
(heading) S B 1155            1172       Ad226              2052           SB 814         293     Am
 1123.5    S B 682             272       Ad                 2055           S B 814        293     Ad

 is Operative on July 1, 1970.
  80
 226
     Not applicable to certain claims re Sec. 709 pending at   effective date of act.
    Operative November 1,1970.
                              SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTEES                             357

                                   PUBLIC RESOURCES CODE
                  Bill        Chapter                            Bill   Chapter
Section           No.          No.        Effect   Section       No.     No.        Effect

Div. 1.                                            6103.6    A B 387      138     Ad, S "
Ch. 1,                                             6103.8    A B 387      138     Ad, S "
Art. 4                                             6224      A B 174     1222     Am&RN
(heading) SB 154                 54     R                                         (as ad by
   607    A B 387               138     Am, S "                                   Stats.
 2207     AB2294                371     Am                                        1968, Oh.
 3234     A B 1920              553     Am                                        1937)
 4155     AB 682                500     Am         6225      A B 174     1222     Ad (1 M
                                                                                        RN)
 4291     SB 772                688     Am         6301.2    AB2106      1593     Ad*
 4374     AB 358                135     Am*        6301.7    S B 950     1044     Ad*
 5001.5   AB 464                483     Am         6360      AB1108      1447     Ad
 5005.1   S B 154                54     Am         6401      S B 704     1014     Am
 5008.5   A B 1516              435     Ad         6826      A B 622     1238     Am
 5010.5   S B 154                54     Am         6826.1    SB    57    1430     Ad
 5017     SB 154                 54     Am         6871.2    SB    57    1430     Am
 5020     AB 1213               628     Am,S*      6872.1    A B 622     1238     Am
 5021     AB 1213               628     Am*        6872.2    A B 622     1238     Am
 5032     S B 707               215     R          6873      A B 1161    1426     Am
 5033     S B 707               215     R          6873.2    A B 622     1238     Am
 5034     SB 707                215     R          7351.5    AB1095       854     Ad^
 5037     SB 707                215     R          7927      S B 453     1121     Ad
 5039     SB 707                215     R          8600      S B 1013    1052     Ad
Div. 5,                                            8601      SB 1013     1052     Ad
Ch.l,                                              9041      S B 747      706     R
Art. 6                                             9081      S B 747      706     R
(heading SB 684                  674    Am         9082      S B 747      706     R
 5070     SB 684                 674    Am         9087      S B 747      706     Am
 5071     SB 684                 674    Am         9281      S B 747      706     R
 5072     S B 684                674    Am         9282      S B 747      706     R
 5072.5   SB 684                 674    Am         9283      S B 747      706     Am
 5073     SB 684                 674    Am         9306.2    S B 747      706     R
 5075     SB 684                 674    Ad         9306.3    S B 747      706     R
 5075.5   SB 684                 674    Ad         9306.4    S B 747      706     Am.
 5076     S B 684                674    Am         9317.3    S B 747      706     R
 5077     AB1084                 851    S          9317.4    S B 747      706     R
 5077.1   AB1084                 851    Ad         9317.5     S B 747     706     Am
 5096.15 SB 255                  355    S*         9321      S B 747      706     Am
  5140    AB 1417               1348    Ad         9322       SB 747      706     R
 5141.1   A B 1417              1348    Ad         9323       S B 747     706     Am
  5161    SB 154                   54   Am          9341      S B 747      706    Am
  5554    SB 627                 456    Am          9342      S B 747      706    Am
  5780.8  AB2065                1301    Am          9347      S B 747      706    Am
  5782.18 S B 154                  54   Am          9502.1    S B 747      706    R
  5782.20 S B 784                200    Am          9522.1    S B 747      706    R
  5783.13 SB 537                 197    Ad          9542      S B 747      706    R
  5784.22 S B 501                194    Am*         9543      S B 747      706    R
  5784.24 SB 501                 194    Am*         9544      S B 747      706    Am
  6101    AB 387                  138   Am, S17
  6102    A B 387                 138   Am, S "     9702      S B 747      706    R
  6103     AB 387                 138   Am, S "     9703      S B 747      706    R
  6103.2   AB 387                 138   Ad, S17"    9704      S B 747      706    Am
  6103.4   AB 387                 138   Ad, S       9708      S B 747      706    Am

  *8 Effective immediately.
   Contingent effect.
 " See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
 190
   Operative on effective date of Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969,
858                     SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                                    PUBLIC UTILITIES CODE
                Bill      Chapter                                      Bill      Chapter
Section         No.        No.          Effect        Section          No.        No.          Effect
  239       SB 568          392       Am               3612        SB 654         1004      Ad 1 "
  305       S B 792         717       Am 8             3613        S B 654        1004      Ad
  310       AB 1096         855       Am 8             3614        SB 654         1004      Ad
  454       AB1096          855       Am8              3615        S B 654        1004      Ad
  461.5     AB1096          855       Ad               3632        AB 757           823     Am*
  600       AB 1191        1489       Ad*8             3671        SB 424           192     Ad
  728.5     AB1096          855       Ad               3810        AB 1743        1279      R
  823       S B 1428        700       Am*              3811        A B 1743       1279      R
 1036       AB 972         1345       Am               3812        A B 1743       1279      R
 1051       SB 568          392       Am               3901        AB 1743        1279      Ad
 1074       SB 447          173       Am 3             3902        AB 1743        1279      Ad
 1206       AB1096          855       Am 8             3903        AB 1743        1279      Ad
 1403       AB1096          855       Am               3904        AB 1743        1279      Ad
 1904       A B 972        1345       Am (by           3910        AB 1743        1279      Ad
                                      Sec. 2 of        3911        AB 1743        1279      Ad
                                      Ch.)             3912        AB 1743        1279      Ad
 1904.1         AB 972          1345  Ad               3920        A B 1743       1279      Ad
 2501           SB 568            392 R                3930        AB 1743        1279      Ad
 2502           SB 568            392 R                3940        A B 1743       1279      Ad
 2503           SB 568            392 R                3950        AB 1743         1279     Ad
 2504           S B 568           392 R                3951        A B 1743        1279     Ad
 2505           SB 568            392 R                4665        AB 757           823     Am*
 2506           S B 568           392 R                5002        AB 1229          865     Am»
 2507           SB 568            392 R                5004        SB    60           10    Am
 2508           SB 60               10Am                5005       SB    60           10    Am
                SB 568            392 R                            AB 535           802     Am
 2509           SB 568            392 R                     5112   SB    60           10    Am
 2510           SB 568            392 R                     5162   AB 757           823     Am*
 2511           SB 568            392 R                     5285   AB 1418          432     Am
2531            SB 568            392 R                     5392   AB 757            823    Ad*
 2532           SB 568            392 R                     5393   AB 757            823    Ad*8
 2533           SB 568            392 R                     7509   A B 1096          855     Ad
 2534           SB 568            392 R                     7952    SB 939          709     Am
 2551           S B 568           392 R                     7953    SB 939          709     Am
 2552           SB 568            392 R                   11908    AB 1433           433     Am
 2553           SB 568            392 R                   12364    AB1800            328    Am
 2554           SB 568            392 R                   12365    AB1800            328     Am
 2555           S B 568           392 R                   12367    AB1800            328     Ad
 2556           SB 568            392 R                   13207     AB 2056          600     Am*
 2557           SB 568            392 R                    16409    AB1942           388     Am
 2558           SB 568            392 R                   16475    AB 380            377     Ad*
 2571           SB 568            392 R                   21004     AB 387           138     Am, 8 "
 2572           SB 568            392 R                    21006    AB 387           138     Am, S17"
 2573           SB 568            392 R                    21006.5  AB 387           138     Ad, S 17
 2574            SB 568           392 R                    21007    AB 387           138     Am, S
 2739           A B 328            162Ad*                  Div. 9,
 2741           A B 328           162 Am*                 P t . 1,
 2743           A B 329           404 Am                  Ch. 2
 2755           AB 329            404 Am                   (heading) AB 387           138    Am, S "
 2762           AB 329            404 Am                   Div. 9,
 2765           AB 329            404 Am                   P t . 1,
 2767           AB 329             404Am                   Ch. 2,
 2769.5         A B 329           404 Am                   Art. 1
 3517            SB 654          1004 Am                   (heading) AB 387           138    Am, S17
 3520            SB 654          1004 Ad                   21201        AB 387        138    Am, S17
 3575            SB 447            173Am                   21202        A B 387       138    Am, S17
                 S B 654         1004 Am 7                 21204        AB 387        138    Am, S17
 3576           AB 45               57Ad*                  21205        AB 387        138    Am, S17
 3610            SB 654          1004 Ad                                S B 1366      712    Am 17
 3611            S B 654         1004 Ad                   21206        A B 387       138    Am, S
  *8 Effective immediately.
   7
     Contingent effect.
 17
     Effective until February 1, 1970.
107  Seefiec   311 5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
U 7 Operative January 1, 1970.
     Dump truck carriers engaged in business on effective date of section shall Hie with commission prior to
         January 1, 1970, an application to operate as a dump truck carrier.
                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                                        359

                         PUBLIC UTILITIES CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                                             Bill         Chapter
 Section          No.        No.           Effect         Section               No.            No.            Effect
21207        AB 387           138      Am, S "           21645          S B 1057              398      R
21215        AB 387           138      Am, S "           21655          S B 1057              398      Ad
21224        AB 387           138      Am, S "           21656          S B 1057              398      Ad
             SB 1366          712      Am                21657          S B 1057              398      Ad
21225        SB 1366          712      Ad                21658          S B 1057              398      Ad
21240        A B 387          138      Am, S17
                                             17
                                                         21659          S B 1057              398      Ad
21241        A B 387          138      Am, S17           21660          S B 1057              398      Ad
21242        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21661          A B 387               138      Am, S "
21243        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21662          A B 387               138      Am, S "
21243.5      AB 387           138      Am, S                            SB 1366               712      Am
21244        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21663          A B 387               138      Am, S w
21245        AB 387           138      Am, S17
                                             17
                                                                        SB 1366               712      Am
21246        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21664          A B 387               138      Am, S "
21247        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          SB 136«               712      Am
21248        A B 387          138      Am, S             21665          A B 387               138      Am, S "
21249        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21666          AB 387                138      Am, S 1 '
21250        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          S B 1366              712      •A.m
21251        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21667          A B 387               138      Am, S "
21252        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          S B 1366              712      R
21253        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21668
                                                                        *J J-* J - v v V /
                                                                                              138      Am, S "
21254        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          AB 387
                                                                                              712      Am
21255        AB 387           138      Am, S17"                         SB 1366
             AB 387           138      Am, S             21669          A B 645              1585      Ad* 167
21256                                                    21669.1                             1585      Ad*
21257        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          A B 645
             AB 387           138      Am, S17           21669.2        AB 645               1585      Ad*
21258                                                    21669.3                             1585      \([*     165, 168
             SB 1057          398      R                                A B 645
21408        A B 387          138      Am, S17           21669.4        A B 645              1585      Ad*
21410        AB 387           138            17
                                       Am, S17           21680          A B 387               138      Am, S17
21412        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          S B 992              1604      Am (as ad
21413        AB 387           138      Am, S                                                           by Sec.   3 of
21500        AB 2265         1460      Ad                                                              Ch.)m,
21501        AB 2265         1460      Ad                                                              R & Ad
21502        AB2265          1460      Ad                21681          AB        387         138      Am, S17
21503        AB 2265         1460      Ad                               SB        403         682      R
21504        AB 2265         1460      Ad                               SB        992        1604      R & A d17
21505        A B 2265        1460      Ad                21682          AB        387         138      Am, S
21506        AB 2265         1460      Ad                               SB        992        1604      R&Ad
21601        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21683          AB        387         138      Am, S "
21602        AB 387           138      Am, S»                           SB        975        1603      Am
21603        AB 387           138      Am, S "                          SB        992        1604      R&Ad
21605        AB 387           138      Am, S "           21684          AB        387         138      Am, S "
21631        A B 387          138      Am, S17
                                             17
                                                                        SB        992        1604      R&Ad
21632        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21685          AB        387         138      Am, S "
21633        AB 387           138      Am, S 17                         SB        975        1603      Am
21634        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          SB        992        1604      R & A d17
21635        AB 387           138      Am, S17           21685.5        AB        387         138      Am, S
21636        AB 387           138      Am, S17                          SB        992        1604      R
21637        A B 387          138      Am, S             21686          SB        992        1604      R&Ad
21638        AB 387           138      Am, S "           21687          AB        387         138      Am, S «
21639        AB 387           138      Am, S "                          SB        992        1604      R&Ad
21640        A B 387          138      Am, S17           21688          AB        387         138      Am, S "
21641        AB 387           138      Am, S "                          SB        992        1604      R&Ad
             SB 1057          398      R                 21689          SB        992        1604      R
21642        AB 387           138      Am, S "           21690          SB        992        1604      R
             SB 1057          398      R                 21690.1        AB        387         138      Am, S "
21643        AB 387           138      Am, S "                          SB        992        1604      R
             SB 1057          398      R                 21690.2        AB        387         138      Am, S "
21644        AB 387           138      Am, S "                          SB        992        1604      R
             SB 1057          398      R                 21690.5        AB        375        1228      Ad
  * Effective immediately.
 17
 82
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions
165
    Not operative.
168
    Report on or prior to April 1, 1970, of certain noise regulations adopted.
ler
    Certain noise regulations effective on January 1, 1971.
    Committee shall terminate on January 1, 1971.
360                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                             PUBLIC UTILITIES CODE—Continued
                   BUI        Chapter                             Bill    Chapter
Section            No.         No.            Effect   Section    No.      No.        Effect

21690.6   A B 375    1228   Ad                         30825    AB 2136    1567     Ad
21690.7   A B 375    1228   Ad                         98261    S B 528     195     Am*
21690.8   A B 375    1228   Ad                         99013    SB 621      635     S
21690.9   AB 375     1228   Ad                         99013.5  SB 621      635     Ad
21690.10 AB 375      1228   Ad                         100000   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
21690.11 AB 375      1228   Ad                         100001   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
21690.12 A B 375     1228   Ad                         100010   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
21690.13 AB 375      1228   Ad                         100011   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.14 AB 375      1228   Ad                         100012   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.15 AB 375      1228   Ad                         100013   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.16 AB 375      1228   Ad                         100014   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.17 AB 375      1228   Ad                         100015   S B 49      180     Ad.S*
21690.20 AB 2266      942   Ad                         100016   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.21 A B 2 2 6 6  942   Ad    '                    100017   SB 49       180     Ad.S*
21690.22 A B 2266     942   Ad                         100018   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
21690.23 A B 2 2 6 6  942   Ad                         100019   SB   49     180     Ad, S*
21690.24 A B 2 2 6 6  942   Ad                         100020   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.25 A B 2 2 6 6  942   Ad                         100021   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.26 A B 2 2 6 6  942   Ad                         100030   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.27 A B 2 2 6 6  942   Ad                         100031   SB   49     180     Ad, S*
21690.28 A B 2266     942   Ad                         100032   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21690.29 AB 2266      942   Ad                         100040   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21691     A B 387     138   Am, S 1 '                  100041   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
21692     AB 387      138   Am, S17"                   100042   SB   49     180     Ad, S*
21693     AB 387      138   Am, S                      100043   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
21694     A B 387     138   Am, S17"                   100044   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24233     AB 387      138   Am, S                      100045   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24243     AB 387      138   Am, S17"                   100046   SB   49     180     Ad, S*
24245     AB 387      138   Am, S                      100047   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24250     A B   387   138   Am, S "                    100048   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24251     A B 387     138 _ Am, S17                    100049   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24252     A B 387     138   Am, S "                    100050   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24253     AB 387      138   Am, S17
                                  17
                                                       100055   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24254     A B 387     138   Am, S17                    100055.1 SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24300     A B 387     138   Am, S17                    100055.2 SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24301     A B 387     138   Am, S                      100055.3 SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24302     A B 387     138   Am, S »                    100055.4 SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24325     A B 387     138   Am, S 17                   100060   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24326     A B 387     138   Am, S 17                   100061   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24327     AB 387      138   Am, S "                    100062   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24350     AB 387      138   Am, S17                    100063   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24352     A B 387     138   Am, S17                    100070   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24353     A B 387     138   Am, S "                    100071   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24354     AB 387      138   Am, S17"                   100080 > SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24355     AB 387      138   Am, S                      100081   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24356     AB 387      138   Am, S17                    100082   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24357     AB   387    138   Am, S 17 .                 100083   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24358     A B 387     138 ' Am, S 17                   100090   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
24360     AB 387      138   Am, S 17                   100091   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24361     AB 387      138   Am, S17                    100092   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
24401     A B 387     138   Am, S 17                   100093   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
Div. 10,                                               100100   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
P t . 2,                                               100110   SB   49     180     Ad, S*
Ch. 7,                                                 100111   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
Art. 1                                                 100112   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
(heading) S B     2    24   Ad                         100113   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
29140     SB       2   24   Ad                         100114   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
29140.5   SB       2   24   Ad                         100120   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
          SCB 123 B267#                                100121   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
29141     SB       2   24   Ad            s            100122   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
29142     SB       2   24   Ad                         100123   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
29143     SB       2   24   Ad                         100124   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
29144     SB       2   24   Ad                         100125   SB 49       180     Ad, S*
30740.5   A B 1508    387   Am                         100130   S B 49      180     Ad, S*
 # Resolution chapter.
  * Effective immediately.
 17
   See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
88888888883838888888888888                                                                                            88888888888888888
tO t o |—L L-i |-i HIM.I-J. i - a i - i K A M i - i l - J - h ^ l - i i - i M - l - ' M W M M I - ' l - i M
                                                                                                                      ©©©COOO-^OSQl^OOMKOCOtCI-i©
                                                                                                                      ot                        bi


tdWtdWWtdWWWtdWtdWWtdtdWtdtdtdWtdWWtdtd                                                                           HWtdtdtOWWtSWWttfWWtdWtdbiW

50 co co CD co co co co co ©COCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCO                                                     ^gcococococococococococococococococp



OOOOCpOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCQpOOODgpOOOOOOODOOOOOOOOQOQO                                                             KooGoooaoooooooooCooooooooooooooooo
©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©                                                                                       00©O©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©




* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *                                                           . ^ p    * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *




i88888l8883883888883883388333?38i8888888g88838|r
w ^ - * - - w ~ - t ^ - ^ - ^ — - ^ - » - . ^ w * « - ~ - - ^ w * » . * p - 0 © © © © © © © © ^ © © 0 © © © © ^                — — ^-     — i-   ••   — -   -
      ?ss
Scococp3oooixGo^^c55©©©CTCTi^MM^©©©©o©©©©©«Qc-)-5-^o<2!©©©©©©©p©©


COCOCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCOcOcOCOCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCOCDCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCDCO



<XOOOTOOOOOOOOOO(»0000<»OOI»(XOOOOOOOOIXC»000!3000000000000!»QO!»<»0000000000(X)00<»OogOOOQO

©©©©©©O©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©o©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©®©o©

PJ CU Oi & & P'.p' & j & ' Q ' & ' f i i Q i & ^ p * Q* ^ ' p ' P ' p ' C i i & £ j & i O i 0 j & O * a j O^P'p' &4 PJ & p* &< Qi & p « Sj Cu &<fiip i &J CL

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * . * * * * * * * * * * * * *
362                     SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                          REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE
                 Bill     Chapter                                       Bill     Chapter
Section          No.       No.          Effect         Section          No.        No.          Effect

   34    AB    22              2     Ad*                 423        S B 216          7       S*
  105    A B 1177            862     S 108                          A B 1175       565       S
  155.6  A B 104             123     R*                             A B 1177       862       Am108' u a
  155.10 A B 104             123     R*                             S B 662       1006       S
  155.11 A B 104             123     R*                  423.5      A B 1177       862       Ad 1 0 8
  155.12 A B 104             123     R*                  424        SB 662        1006       S
  155.15 S B 257              20     Ad*                 425        SB 662        1006       R
         A B 285             129     Am, S*              426        A B 1175       565       Ad
  166    ACR 246           K338#     S                   427        AB 1177        862       Ad 1 0 8
  171    S B 1312            747     Ad*                 428        A B 1177       862       Ad 1 0 8
  172    S B 1312            747     Ad*                 429        AB 1177        862       Ad 1 0 8
  173    S B 1312            747     Ad*                 443.1      A B 1428       875       Ad
  181    A B 104             123     R*                  469        A B 2061       658       Am
  182    A B 104             123     R*                             SB 631        1126       Am
  183    A B 104             123     R*                  507        AB 1842       1557       Am&Rlf
  184    A B 104             123     R*                  531.3      AB1842        1557       Ad (RN)
  185    A B 104             123     R*                  531.4      A B 1842      1557       Ad
  186    A B 104             123     R*                  531.5      AB 778         283       Ad*
  187    A B 104             123     R*                             A B 193       1526       Ad*
  205.5  S B 824           1332      Am 3                532        S B 631       1126       Am
  205.8  S B 824           1332      Ad 8                 619       A B 1840       369       Am
  213.7  A B 215             203     Am                   619.2     A B 1840       369       Am
  214    AB1973             1561     Am                   620       SB 1331        699       Am
  214.01 A B 351              84     S                    621       AB 1840        369       Am
         A B 104             123     Am*                  622       A B 1840       369       R
  214.8  A B 215             203     Am                   623       A B 1840       369       R
  219    A B 342             671     Am*                  624       AB 1840        369       R
         A B 193            1526     Am* 108              992       A B 493        610       Ad
  224    S B 153              88     Am*              Div. 1,
  252    A B 442             143     Am               P t . 2,
  254    S B 1222            670     Am               Ch. 5,
  254.5  S B 274              81     Am*              Art. 4
  255    A B 1840            369     Am20             (heading) AB 1840             369      R
         A B 193            1526     Am* 2 6           1154     SB 322              732      Am*
  255.1  A B 2344             86     S*                1603     A B 1840            369      Am
         A B 1840            369     R 28              1607     AB 2243            1095      Am
  262.1  A B 104             123     R*                1608.7   AB 2093            1306      Ad 136
  266    A B 104             123     R*                1613     S B 754            1020      Ad
  268    A B 104             123     R*                1616     AB2093             1306      Am 1 3 8
  268.6  A B 104             123     R*                1622.5   AB 1913            1399      Am™
  268.9  A B 104             123     R*                1624.3   AB 1913            1399      Ad 1 3 7
  270    A B 531              22     S*                1815.4   SB 754             1020      Ad
         A B 104             123     Am*               3475     S B 1365           1509      R
  271.3  A B 104             123     Am*               3476     S B 1365           1509      R
  271.4   S B 153             88     Ad*               3477     S B 1365           1509      R
  271.5  A B 104             123     R*                3478     SB 1365            1509      R
  271.6  A B 104             123     R*                3479     SB 1365            1509      R
  271.7  A B 104             123     R*                3480     SB 1365            1509      R
  277    A B 104             123     Am*               3481     SB 1365            1509      R
  278    A B 104             123     S * Ad*           3599     SB 900             1611      Am18
  402.5   S B 754          1020      Ad                3601     S B 900            1611      Am 1 »
  408    A B 1913           1399     Am187             3602     SB 900             1611      Am 1 8
  421    A B 1177            862     R & Ad1»8         3957     SB 900             1611      Am 1 8
         S B 662           1006      S                 3959     SB 900             1611      Am 1 8
  422    A B 1177            862     R & Ad108         3960     S B 900            1611      Am18
         S B 662           1006      S                 4250     S B 1365           1509      R
 # Resolution chapter.
  *8 Effective immediately.
 15
     Contingent effect.
 18
     Effective until March 1, 1970.
 26
     Operative on July 1, 1970.
108
     Operative on January 1, 1970.
118
     Operative on and after lien date in 1970.
    Interest component, paragraph (1), subdivision (b) shall be announced only for 1969, on the first day of
         September, 1969 or on the 61st day following final adjournment of 1969 Regular Session, whichever
         occurs later.
1*
137
     Applicable  to assessments made on or after the lien date in 1970.
     Applicable to equalization proceedings for the 1970-1971 assessment and assessment years thereafter.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                       363

                 REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE—Continued
                  Bill       Chapter                                   Bill     Chapter
Section           No.         No.          Effect       Section        No.        No.          Effect
4251         SB 1365         1509      R                6006.3    SB 1317         710   Am
4252         SB 1365         1509      R                6006.5    AB 1841         447   Am
4253         S B 1365        1509      R                6052.5    SB     2         24   Am
4254         SB 1365         1509      R                          SB    49        180   Am, S*
4255         SB 1365         1509      R                6281      AB 1841         447   Am
4256         SB 1365         1509      R                6285      SB    46        676   Am 173
4257         SB 1365         1509      R                6357      AB 1244        1587   Am1
4258         SB 1365         1509      R                6359      AB 444         1533   Am ™
4259         SB 1365         1509      R                6359.4    A B 444        1533   Am176
4260         SB 1365         1509      R                6362      SB 1064        1153   Am
4261         SB 1365         1509      R                6406      SB     2         24   Am
4262         SB 1365         1509      R                6470      SB     2         24   Am
4263         SB 1365         1509      R                6487      AB1836          368   Am
4336         SB 1365         1509      Am               6563      AB1836          368   Am
4337         SB 1365         1509      Am18             6711      AB1838          915 - Am8628
4653.4       AB 152            96      Am 18            6757.5    AB 1838         915   Ad
4655         AB 152            96      Am               7056      SB     2         24   Am
4655.2       AB 152            96      Am18                       SB    49        180   Am, S*
4655.4       AB 152            96      Am18             7251      SB     2         24   Ad
                                          18
4658         AB 152            96      Ad18             7252      SB     2         24   Ad
4658.2       AB 152            96      Ad18                       SB    49        180   Am, S*
4658.4       AB 152            96      Ad
4804         AB 305           130      Ad                         A B 2136       1567   Am (as am
4986.1       AB 526           233      Am                                               by Stats.
5294         SB 316          1362      Am28, S146                                       1969, Ch.
5303         SB 322           732      Am* 1                                            180)
5366         AB 387           138      Am, S '          7253      SB    2          24   Ad
             A B 342          671      Am* 13S
                                             18
                                                        7261      SB    2          24   Ad
5501         AB 1061         1057      Ad, S1S          7262      SB    2          24   Ad
5502         AB1061          1057      Ad, S 18 11B     7263      SB    2          24   Ad
5503         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18 '        7264      SB    2          24   Ad
5504         AB1061          1057      Ad, S            7271      SB    2          24   Ad
5505         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7272      SB    2          24   Ad
5506         AB 1061         1057      Ad, S18          7272.5    SB   49         180   Ad, S*
5507         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18u         7272.7    AB 2136        1567   Ad
5508         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7273      SB    2          24   Ad
5521         AB1061          1057      Ad, S                      SB   49         180   Am, S*
5522         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18
                                             18
                                                        7351      AB   76          52   Am, S*
5523         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7351.5    AB   76          52   Am*
5541         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18                    AB 310          131   R ( a s am
5542         AB1061          1057      Ad, S 18                                         by Stats.
5543         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18                                          1969, Ch.
5544         AB1061          1057      Ad, S                                            52)*
5561         AB 1061         1057      Ad, S18          7351.6    AB    76         52   Am*
5562         AB 1061         1057      Ad, S M          7370      AB1244         1587   Ad™
5563         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7371      A B 1244       1587   Ad173
5564         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18
                                             18
                                                        7372      AB 1244        1587      l7S
                                                                                        Ad173
5565         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7373      AB 1244        1587   Ad173
5566         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7374      AB 1244        1587   Ad173
5567         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7375      A B 1244       1587   Ad173
5568         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7376      A B 1244       1587   Ad 173
5569         AB1061          1057      Ad, S            7380      A B 1244       1587   Ad lra
5581         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7381      AB 1244        1587   Ad
5582         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7390      AB 1244        1587   Ad173
5583         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7391      AB1244         1587   Ad173
5601         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7395      AB 1244        1587   Ad173
5602         AB1061          1057      Ad, S18          7396      AB1244         1587   Ad173
 * Effective immediately.
 17
 18
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. le conflicting provisions.
 28
    Operative on July 1, 1970.
 28
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
118
    Operative January 1, 1971.
186
    Certain defined "Livestock" exempt from propel ty taxation on and after lien date in 1970.
    County assessors to comply with Section 5366 of the Revenue and Taxation Code not later than August 1,
1M
        1969.
   See Sec. 12 of Ch. re conflicting piovisions.
" • Operative on first day of month following month in which act becomes effective.
»•» Effective January 1,1970.
364                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                  REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE—Continued
                   Bill       Chapter                                      Bill      Chapter
Section            No.         No.            Effect      Section          No.        No.           Effect

 7653         A B 76              52      Am*             13307        S B 1313       1200       Am
              AB 310             131      R (as am        13308        SB 1313        1200       Am
                                          by Stats.       13310        SB 1313        1200       Ad
                                          1969, Ch.       13601        SB 1313        1200       Am
                                          52)*            13602        SB 1313        1200       R
 7711.5       AB 1836           368       Am              13641        SB 1313        1200       Am
 8101.5       A B 625           561       Am              13953        S B 1313       1200       Am
 8101.7       AB 185             29       Am 17           13954        SB 1313        1200       Am
 8352         AB 387            138       Am, S           14762        SB 1313        1200       R
 8651         AB 76              52       Am, S*          15110        SB 1313        1200       Am
 8651.4       A B 76             52       Ad ( R N ) *    15111        SB 1313        1200       Am
 8651.5       A B 76             52       Am&RN           15113        SB 1313        1200       Ad
                                          (as ad by       15552        S B 1313       1200       Am
                                          Stats.          15553        SB 1313        1200       Am
                                          1965, Ch.       16251        SB 1313        1200       Am
                                          27)*            17009        AB 2267        1320       Am 81
 8782         AB1836            368       Am              17053        AB 1643        1606       Am
 8852.5       AB1836            368       Am                           SB    23       1607       Am96 6
 9881         AB 1836           368       Am              17054        SB 437           980      Am*»
 9927         AB 1836           368       Am              17059        SB 437           980      Am*™
10753         AB 185             29       Am              17065        SB 825         1464       Ad*
10782         AB 647           1444       Am              17066        SB 825         1464       Ad*
10783         AB 1683           893       Am              17067        S B 825        1464       Ad*
10854.1       SB 577            214       Am              17068        SB 825         1464       Ad*
11003.3       AB 194            126       Am*             17072        SB    23       1607       Am"
11005         AB 195            127       Am*             17073        SB    23       1607       S""89
11005.6       AB2269            556       Am              17112.5      SB 23          1607       Ad96
11922         SB 38            1102       Am              17112.7      SB    23       1607       Ad
              SB 851           1108       Am              17132        SB 23          1607       Am M
11933         SB 38            1102       Am              17138        SB 23          1607       Am*
12002         AB 1150           860       Am              17150        SB 437           980      Am* 1 1 5
12107         S B 595           736       Ad*' 7          17253        A B 185           29      Am81
12202         AB1705           1455       Am              17461        AB1643         1606       Am 64
12251         S B 595           736       R &     Ad* «   17462        AB 1643         1606      Am
12251.5       SB 595            736       R* 7777         17501        SB 23          1607       Am,    S"
                                                                                                    80
12251.7       SB 595            736       R*              17502.2      SB 23          1607       Ad96
12252         SB 595            736       R & Ad* "       17502.3      SB 23          1607       Ad
12253         SB 595            736       R & Ad* 77      17502.4      SB 23          1607       Ad88
12254         SB 595            736       R & Ad* 77"     17502.5      SB    23       1607       Ad96
12255         S B 595           736       R &7 Ad*        17502.6      SB    23       1607       Ad96
12255.5       SB 595            736       R* '            17502.7      SB    23       1607       Ad98
12256         SB 595            736       R & Ad* ' '     17502.8      SB    23       1607       Ad9696
12257         SB 595            736       R & Ad* "       17503        SB 23          1607       Am
12258         SB 595            736       R & Ad* 7 '     17511        SB 23          1607       Am9696
12259         SB 595            736       R & Ad* "       17513        SB 23          1607       Am88
12261         SB 595            736       R* 7 7"         17515        SB 23          1607       Am
12263         SB 595            736       R*              17520.4      SB    23       1607       Ad86
12264         S B 595           736       R* 7 7"
12265         SB 595            736       R*              17520.6      S B 23         1607       Ad 98
12266         SB 595            736       R* "            17524        SB 23          1607       Ad98
12290         SB 595            736       Am*'7           17525        SB 23          1607       Ad993
12301         SB 595            736       Am* "           17526        SB 23          1607       Ad "
12302         S B 595           736       Am* 77 77       17529        SB    23       1607       Ad96
12307         SB 595            736       Am*             17535        AB1643         1606       Am"
12432         SB 595            736       Am* 7 7         17641        SB    23       1607       Ad M
12631         SB 595            736       Am*"            17834        AB 185            29      Am6
12632         S B 595           736       Am*"            18211        AB 1643        1606       Am *
12978         SB 595            736       Am*"            18409        SB 437           980      R116
13153         SB 595            736       Am*"            18409.1      S B 437          980      R™>
 * Effective immediately.
17
64
   See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
     Provisions of act effecting changes in personal income tax applicable in the computation of taxes for
        taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 1969.
 "06 Not operative until January 1, 1970.
     Applicable to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1970.
us Provisions of act effecting changes in computation of taxes applicable to taxable years beginning on or after
178
        January 1, 1969.
     Operative on first day of month following month in which act becomes effective.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                                   365

                 REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE—Continued
   -              Bill       Chapter                                          Bill      Chapter
Section           No.         No.           Effect         Section            No.        No.            Effect

18409.2       S B 437          980      W*                24307          A B 1643        1606       Am1™
18409.3       S B 437          980      R™                24320          S B 1285        1191       Ad
18409.4       S B 437          980      Rlls              24321          S B 1285        1191       Ad
18409.5       S B 437          980      R115              24455          A B 185           29       Am
18409.6       SB 437           980      R 11B             24541          A B 1643        1606       Am1™
18409.7       SB 437           980      Rlus              24553          A B 1643        1606       Am179
18409.8       S B 437          980      R115              24562          AB1643          1606       Am1™
18409.9       S B 437          980      R115              24563          A B 1643        1606       Am1™
18681         SB 437           980      Am 1 1 5          24837          S B 506          603       Am*28
18803         SB 437           980      Am 1 1 5          25205          A B 185           29       Am
18831         AB1838           915      Am28              25563          S B 506          603       Am* 2 2 8
18882.5       AB 1838          915      Ad 2 8                           A B 193         1526       Am*
19052         AB 1811          911      R&Ad              25931          S B 506          603       Am*»
19053.6       SB 437           980      Ad U6             25934.2        A B 1136         760       Ad* 5 6
19062.11      S B 437          980      Am™               26072          A B 1811         911       R&Ad
19267         SB    23        1607      Ad"6              26073b         S B 506          603       Am&RN,
19282         S B 437          980      Am" 5                                                       Ad228
19285         S B 437          980      Am 1 1 0          26073c         SB     506        603      Am & R N ,
19287         S B 437          980      Amm                                                         Ad
19504         AB    80          51      Am 6                                                         (RN)228
19506         A B 120          790      Am80              26073d         SB     506        603      Ad
19507         AB    80          51      Am 6                                                         (RN)223
19526         S B 1019        1135      Am 1 0 2          26161.5        A B 1838          915      Ad 28
23038         AB 2267         1320      Am                26251          AB1838            915      Am 28
23184         A B 2315        1461      Am*15*            26451          S B 506           603      Am228
23305         AB 185            29      Am                26451.3        A B 2267         1320      Ad
23361         A B 1644         889      Am                26453b         S B 506           603      Am228
23362         AB1644           889      Am                26453c         S B 506           603      Am228
23701         A B 2267        1320      Am                26453d         S B 506           603      Ad228
23701d        AB2267          1320      Am                30111          SB     2           24      Am
23702         AB 2267         1320      Am                30462          A B 196           128      Am*
23704         SB 300          1478      Ad*83                            S B 255           355      S*
23731a        S B 1127        1508      Am*198                           A B 2037          933      Am109
23737         AB1643          1606      Am1™              32010          SB    49          180      Am, S*
23772         AB2267          1320      Am 1 3 0          32303          A B 1836          368      Am
23772.5       AB2267          1320      Am                37010          A B 2136         1567      Ad
23773         A B 2267        1320      Ad 1 3 0          37011          A B 2136         1567      Ad
23774         A B 2267        1320      Ad (title         37012          A B 2136         1567      Ad
                                        purports          37013          A B 2136         1567      Ad
                                        to ad but         37014          A B 2136         1567      Ad
                                        no ad in          37015          A B 2136         1567      Ad
                                        text)             37016          A B 2136         1567      Ad
              S B 1127        1508      Add108            37017          A B 2136         1567      Ad
23775         A B 2267        1320      Ad                37018          A B 2136         1567      Ad
23776         A B 2267        1320      Ad                37019          A B 2136         1567      Ad
23777         AB2267          1320      Ad ( T O )        37020          A B 2136         1567      Ad

 * Effective immediately.
   8
 28
     Applicable to claims filed for property tax assistance for fiscal years ending on and after June 30,   1969.
 M
     Operative on January 1, 1970.
 60
     Applicable to all returns with a due date on or after effective date of act.
 64
     Operative with respect to property taxes paid for the 1969-1970 fiscal year and fiscal years         thereafter.
     Provisions of act effecting changes in personal income tax applicable in the computation of taxes for
  83
        taxable  years beginning  on  and after January 1, 1969.
     Applicable in the computation of taxes on or measured by net income of calendar or fiscal years ending
  98
        after December 31, 1968.
102
     Applicable to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1970.
108
     Applicable to claims filed for property tax assistance for fiscal yeais ending on and after June 30, 1970.
     Applicable to revenues derived from taxes imposed pursuant to Cigarette Tax Law on and after January
115
        1,   1970.
     Provisions of act effecting clianges in computation of taxes applicable to taxable years beginning on or after
180
        January 1, 1969.
161
     Applicable to income years ending after December 31, 1969.
     Applicable in the computation of taxes measured by net income of calendar or fiscal years ending December
178
        31, 1968.
     Applicable in the computation of taxes for income years beginning on or after January 1, 1969.
 196 provisions of act effecting changes in computation of taxes shall apply to income years beginning on and
        after January 1, 1970.
sac provisions of act effecting changes in the computation of taxes applicable to income years beginning on and
        after January 1,1969.
366                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BT 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                            STREETS AND HIGHWAYS CODE
                   Bill     Chapter                                          Bill      Chapter
Section            No.       No.           Effect          Section           No.        No.           Effect

   70        S B 1282        1190       Am                   263.4      SB 993           294       Am*
   74.5      A B 1865         515       Am                   263.5      A B 1671        1352       Am (by
   75.7      A B 1747         445       Am                                                         Sec. 7
   94.5      A B 1934         926       Ad 6 9 , 70, 71                                            ofCh.)
  100.22     A B 1865         515       Ad                  263.8       S B 993          294       Am*
  101.5      S B 1013        1052       Am                  315         S B 993          294       Am*
  104.6      AB1067           849       Am                  360         SB 993           294       Am*
  104.15     A B 455         1054       Ad                  371         SB 993           294       Am*
  118        S B 1233        1186       Am                  374         S B 993          294       Am*
  128        A B 2294         371       Am                  378         S B 993          294       Am*
  135.3      A B 1869         917       Am* w               379         S B 993          294       Am*
  136.5      A B 458          144       Am*                 381         S B 993          294       Am*
  143.1      A B 2024         451       Am                  387         S B 1202        1179       Am
             S B 878         1035       Am (by              391         S B 993          294       Am*
                                        Sec. 2              403         SB 993           294       R*
                                        of Oh.)             463         S B 993          294       Ad*
  149         SB    43         703      Ad98                486         SB 993           294       R*
  154         A B 604          234      Am                  574         S B 993          294       Am*
              A B 1671        1352      Am                  608         S B 993          294       Ad*
  158.1       A B 1191        1489      Ad*                 610         S B 993          294       Am*
  186         S B 3240         329      Am*                 820         A B 1933          247      Am, S
  186.1       S B 1240         329      Ad* 4 1             820.7       S B 1010        1051       Ad
  186.6       S B 677         1498      Ad                  886         A B 1671        1352       Am
  186.95      AB    76          52      Am, S*              887.1       A B 1671        1352       Am
  188         AB    76          52      S*                  906         A B 1708         723       S
  188.3       S B 890         1037      Am                  959.1       A B 1875        1290       Am
  188.8       AB    76          52      S*                  960.3       AB 1875         1290       Am
              S B 1016        1134      Am238              1166         S B 798         1025       Am
  188.9       AB    76          52      S*                 1178         S B 798         1025       Am
Div. 1,                                                    1194         SB 798          1025       Am
Ch. 1.5                                                    1197         S B 798         1025       Am
(heading) A B 1671            1352      Am                 1622         S B 553          344       Am
  227     A B 1671            1352      Am                 1930         S B 550          665       Ad
  228     A B 1670             891      Am                 1931         SB 550           665       Ad
  253.1   S B 993              294      Am*                1932         S B 550          665       Ad
          SB    13             726      Am (by             1933         S B 550          665       Ad
                                        See. 1             1934         S B 550          665       Ad
                                        ofCh.)             2105         S B 677         1498       Am
  253.2       SB      13       726      Am (by             2106         S B 677         1498       Am
                                        Sec. 2             2106.5       SB 905           746       Am*
                                        of Ch.)            2113         SB 553           344       Am
  253.4   S B 993              294      Am*                2300         S B 1028        1141       Ad
  253.5   S B 993              294      Am*                2301         S B 1028        1141       Ad
  253.8   S B 993              294      Am*                2305         S B 1028        1141       Ad
  256     S B 1016            1134      Am238              2306         S B 1028        1141       Ad
Div. 1,                                                    2307         SB 1028         1141       Ad
Ch. 2,                                                     2308         SB 1028         1141       Ad
Art. 2.5                                                   2309         S B 1028        1141       Ad
(heading) A B 1671            1352      Am                 2315         S B 1028        1141       Ad
  261     A B 1671            1352      Am                 2316         S B 1028        1141       Ad
  262     A B 1671            1352      Am                 2320         S B 1028        1141       Ad
  263.2   S B 152              727      Am (by             2321         SB 1028         1141       Ad
                                        Seel               2322         S B 1028        1141       Ad
                                        of Ch.)            2323         SB 1028         1141       Ad
  263.3       SB     993       294      Am*                2324         S B 1028        1141       Ad
  * Effective immediately.
 41
    Certain increase until June 30, 1970, per gallon tax on motor vehicle fuel, etc, as maximum net revenue
 08
        which may be expended for administi ation and maintenance purposes.
 69
    Department     of Public Works report to Legislature re replacement housing program.
 70
    Applicable   only to contracts awarded bidder pursuant to competitive bidding.
 71
    Effective  for contracts awarded prior to January 1, 1972.
    Report to Legislature no later than January 30 of each year re extra compensation for cost reduction changes
 69
        in  plans, etc.
    Operative until January 1, 1975; upon termination of operative period, department of public works to
235
        prepare report on certain experimental programs.
    Estimate of state highway construction needs shall be filed with the Legislature at the 1973 Regular Session
        and published in the respective Journals of the Senate and the Assembly not later than the 15th legislative
236
        day.
    Report to Legislature re highway system, etc., at or prior to 1971 Regular Session.
                                SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                              367

                      STREETS AND HIGHWAYS CODE—Continued
•




                      Bill       Chapter                             Bill      Chapter
    Section           No.         No.            Effect   Section    No.        No.       Effect
 5103            SB 259            251       Am           35462     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5119            AB 1419           874       Ad           35463     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5243            SB 259            251       Am           35464     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5302.5          AB 1688           513       Am           35465     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5302.6          AB 1689           770       Ad           35466     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5303            A B 124          1219       Am           35467     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5320            A B 124          1219       Ad           35468     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5321            AB 124           1219       Ad           35469     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5322            AB 124           1219       Ad           35469.5   AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5323            A B 124          1219       Ad           35469.6   AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5324            AB 124           1219       Ad           35469.7   AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5325            AB 124           1219       Ad           35469.8   AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5613            SB 75             211       Am           35470     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5680            AB2294            371       Am           35471     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5843.5          AB 1251           766       Am           35472     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5870            S B 742           273       Am           35473     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5871            SB 76             184       Am           35474     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5895.50         SB 799            276       Ad           35475     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5895.51         S B 799           276       Ad           35476     AB   604     234     R&Ad ,
 5895.52         SB 799            276       Ad           35477     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5895.53         S B 799           276       Ad           35478     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 5895.54         SB 799            276       Ad           35479     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6447            SB 969            202       Am           35480     AB   604     234     R&Ad
                 AB 1688           513                    35481     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6467                                        Am           35482     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6467.1          AB1688            513       Ad           35483     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6467.2          A B 1688          513       Ad           35500     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6467.3          AB1688            513       Ad           35501     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468            A B 1689          770       Ad           35502     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468.1          AB 1689           770       Ad           35503     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468.2          AB1689            770       Ad           35504     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468.3          AB 1689           770       Ad           35505     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468.4          AB 1689           770       Ad           35506     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468.5          AB1689            770       Ad           35507     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468.6          AB 1689           770       Ad           35508     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6468.7          AB 1689           770       Ad           35509     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6610            AB 162           1221       Am           35510     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6611            SB 900           1611       Am18         35511     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 6613            AB 162           1221       Am           35512     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 8650            AB 1690           771       Am           35520     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 8650.1          AB 1690           771       R&Ad         35521     AB   604     234     R&Ad
 8751.5          AB1690            771       Ad           35522     AB   604     234     R&Ad
10206            A B 1688          513       Am           35530     AB   604     234     R&Ad
10427.1          A B 1691          440       Am           35531     AB   604     234     R&Ad
10509            S B 316          1362       Am28, S146   35532     AB   604     234     R&Ad
10602.5          AB 1689            770      Am           35533     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27122            AB 1812          1286       Am           35534     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27149            SB 679           1411       Am           35535     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27173.5          A B 1023          366       Am           35536     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27178            SB 879           1378       Ad           35537     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27182            AB 1023           366       Am           35538     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27195            AB 1023            366      Am           35539     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27300            AB 584             805      S            35540     AB   604     234     R&Ad
27300a           A B 584           805       S            35541     AB   604     234     R&Ad
30050            A B 387            138      Am, S17      35542     AB   604     234     R&Ad
30051            AB 387             138      Am, S17 *    35543     AB   604     234     R&Ad
30775            SB     2            24      Am           35544     AB   604     234     R&Ad
30775.1          SB     2            24      Ad           35545     AB   604     234     R&Ad
31676.1          AB 922            487       Ad           35546     AB   604     234     R&Ad
31771            AB 922            487       Am           35547          604     234     R&Ad
33138            AB 1378           430       Am*                    AB
35450            A B 604           234       R&Ad         35548     AB   604     234     R&Ad
35460            AB 604             234      R&Ad         35549     AB   604     234     R&Ad
35461            AB 604             234      R&Ad         35549.1   AB   604     234     R&Ad

     • Effective immediately.
    17
    18
       See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
    28
        Operative on July 1, 1970.
    148
        Operative January 1, 1971.
       See Sec. 12 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
368                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                            UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE CODE
                   Bill      Chapter                                     Bill     Chapter
Section            No.        No.        Effect        Section           No.       No.          Effect
 135         SB 840           1107     Am              3002         AB 821          829      Am
 409         AB 2294           371     Am              3003         A B 821         829      Am
 605.5       SB 840           1107     Am              3007         SB 470          291      R
 650         SB 717            216     Am              3255         SB 470          291      Am
 679         AB 820            828     Am              3272         AB 1519         885      Ad
 702         S B 470           291     Am              5400         SB 255          355      S*
 708         SB 470            291     Am              9103         AB 1240        1068      Am
 708.5       SB 470            291     Am              9104         AB1240         1068      Am
 930.1       A B 820           828     Am             Div. 3,
 980.5       SB 470            291     R (as ad       P t . 1,
                                       by Stats.      Ch. 2
                                       1965, Ch.      (heading'     AB 1240        1068      Am
                                       635)            9500         AB 1240        1068      Am
 981         SB 470            291     R (as ad        9800         AB 1240        1068      Ad
                                       by Stats.       9801         AB 1240        1068      Ad
                                       1965, Ch.       9802         AB 1240        1068      Ad
                                       635)            9803         AB 1240        1068      Ad
1260         SB 470            291     Am              9804         AB 1240        1068      Ad
1262.5       S B 470           291     Am             10000         S B 470         291      Am&RN
1528.5       AB 819           1250     Am,  S                                                (as ad by
1703.5       AB1838            915     Ad28                                                  Stats.
1854         A B 820           828     Am                                                    1953, Ch.
2712.5       AB 1519           885     Ad                                                    308)
2768         SB 470            291     Am38           15000         SB 470          291      R
2801.15      SB 388            584     Ad             100000        S B 470         291      Ad (RN)

 * Effective immediately.
28
 83
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
   Operative with respect to periods of disability flommenclng on and after effective date of act.
                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                              369

                                          VEHICLE CODE
                 Bill      Chapter                                        Bill        Chapter
Section          No.        No.           Effect        Section           No.          No.          Effect

  233       AB 1682          479      Am                 5011        A B 1407          1075     Am
  291       AB 387           138      Am, S17            5014        A B 1407          1075     Am
  450       AB 336           133      Ad                 5015        A B 1407          1075     Am
  465       AB 1682          479      Am                 5016        A B 1407          1075     Am
  545       AB 1682          479      Am                 5020        AB    60          1442     Ad
  557       AB 1407         1075      Ad                 5021        AB    60          1442     Ad
  565       SB 238            90      Am                 5909        AB 911             384     Am
  592       SB 1426         1213      Am.                9102.5      A B 647           1444     Ad
  600       SB   15          168      Am w               9105        AB1683             893     Am
 1500       AB 387           138      Am, S17            9261        A B 1407          1075     Am (by
 1505       AB 387           138      Am, S                                                     Sec. 7.5 of
 1803       AB 798          1248      Am                                                        Ch.)
 1808       AB 2294          371      R                              AB     675        1242     Am (by
 1808.5     AB 678          1445      Ad                                                        Sec. 3 of
 2100       AB 387           138      Am, S "                                                   Ch.)
 2109       AB 387           138      Am, S "            9400        AB          62       26    R&Ad
 2400       SB 1426         1213      Am                                                        (RN)
 2418.1     SB 348           680      Am&RN             9401         AB    62            26     Am&RN
 2418.5     SB 348           680      Ad ( E N )        9402         S B 1303           697     Am
 2419       AB 474           167      Am                9410         AB 634             812     Ad
 2501       AB 1147         1064      Am*               9558         S B 577            214     Am
 2504       SB 133             9      Am*               9700         S B 1303           697     Am
 2807       AB 1485          580      Am               10500         AB    62            26     Am
 2815       SB 937          1131      Ad               11102         S B 598            346     Am1 6 3
 2901       AB 387           138      Am, S17          11113         A B 1486          1454     Ad
 2902       AB 387           138      Am, S17          11114         A B 1486          1454     Ad"8
Div. 2,                                                11115         A B 1486          1454     Ad 1 5 8
Ch. 5       AB       62        26     Am&RN            11200         A B 1486          1454     Ad 1 6 8
Diy. 2,                                                11201         A B 1486          1454     Ad 1 6 8
Ch.6        AB 62             26      Ad(RN)           11202         AB 1486           1454     Ad"*
 3000       SB 841          1031      £3« 83, 94
                                                       11203         AB 1486           1454     Ad 1 5 8 ' 160
                                      g * 93, 94
 3001       SB 841          1031                       11503         AB 851             240     Am
                                      C!* 93, 94
 3002       SB 841          1031                       11521         AB    62            26     Am
                                      CJ* 93, 94
 3003       SB 841          1031                       11703         A B 851            240     Am
                                      g * 93, 94
 3004       SB 841          1031                       11705         A B 851            240     Am
                                      g * 93, 94                                                g * 93, 91
 3005       S B 841         1031                       11723         SB 841            1031
                                      j g * 93, 94
 3006       SB 841          1031                       11802         A B 851            240     Am
                                      g * 93, 94
 3007       SB 841          1031                       12501         AB 1407           1075     Am
                                      g * 93, 94
 3008       SB 841          1031                       12513         AB    79           947     Am (by
                                      £ 3 * 93, 94
 3010       SB 841          1031                                                                Sec. 1 of
                                      g * 93, 94
 3011       S B 841         1031                                                                Ch.)
                                       j g * 93, 94
 3012       SB 841          1031                        12514         AB    79          947     Am
                                      g * 93, 94
 3013       SB 841          1031                        12522         AB    62           26     Am
                                      C i * 93, 94
 3014       SB 841          1031                        12650         A B 791           382     Am
                                      g * 93, 94
 3015       SB 841          1031                        12804         A B 414            58     Am
                                      g * 93, 94
 3050       SB 841          1031                        13000         AB 109           1340     Am
                                      g * 93, 94
 3051       SB 841          1031                        13001         AB 109           1340     Am
                                       g * 93, 94
 3052       SB 841          1031                        13002         S B 1030         1143     Am (by
                                       « 3 * 93, 94
 3053       SB 841          1031                                                                Sec. 2 of
                                      j g * 93, 94
 3054       SB 841          1031                                                                Ch.)
                                      g * 93, 94
 3055       SB 841          1031                                      A B 109          1340     Am (by
                                      g * 93, 94
 3056       SB 841          1031                                                                Sec. 8 of
                                      g * 93, 94
 3057       S B 841         1031                                                                Ch.)
                                      g * 93, 94
 3058       SB 841          1031                        13004         AB 109           1340     Am
 4000.1     A B 1274         622       Am*              13005         AB 109           1340     Am
 4000.2     AB 67             11       Am*              13005.5       A B 109          1340     Ad
 4020       AB 1407         1075       Ad               13008         AB 109           1340     Ad
 4155       A B 675         1242       Am               13210         SB 1405          1210     Am
  * Effective immediately.
 17
 98
    See Sec. 311 5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
    Operative until 91st day after final adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
 9* Operative at same time Beorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969 becomes effective.
168
    No force or effect on and after July 1, 1974.
100
    Interim report to Legislature on or before fifth legislative day of 1972 Regular Session and final report
        on or before fifth legislative day of 1974 Regular Session re certain experimental driver training pro-
        grams and commercial driver school training.
370                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTEES

                                 VEHICLE CODE—Continued
                   Bill     Chapter                                         Bill      Chapter
 Section           No.       No.              Effect      Section           No.        No.          Effect
13353         SB 1065        1438       Am               21657         A B 373          136      Am
13355         SB 1135        1167       Am               21704         A B 856          226      Am
13355.5       A B 200         519       Ad               21752         A B 838          417      Am
13953         S B 951        1045       Am               21801         A B 721          312      Am
16020         A B 830         486       Am               21802         SB    14        1101      Am w
16026         A B 830         486       Am               21803         A B 852          834      Am
16053         A B 830         486       Am               21804         A B 721          312      Am
16105         AB 595          539       Am               21958         A B 805          207      B
16109         SB 133            9       R*               22356         S B 308           91      Am
16251         AB 830          486       Am                             AB 387           138      Am, S "
16370         AB 830          486       Am                             SB 525           632      Am
16377         AB 830          486       Am               22357         SB 358           631      Am
16430         A B 830         486       Am               22450         A B 722          364      Am
16434         AB 830          486       Am               22452         AB    62          26      Am
16482         AB   62          26       Am               22502         A B 1989         777      Am
16560         AB 1743        1279       Ad               22507         AB 699           541      Am, S
17150         AB 476          471       S                22507.5       A B 699          541      Ad
17150.5       AB 476          471       S                22651         A B 1667        1116      Am
17151         AB 476          471                        22654         A B 402         1229      Am
17152         AB 476          471       s                22655         A B 1667        1116      Am
17153         AB 476          471       s                22656         A B 1667        1116      Am
17154         AB 476          471       s                22702         AB1243           547      Am (by
17155         A B 476         471       s                                                        Sec. 2
17156         AB 476          471       s                                                        ofCh.)
17157         SB 297          289       s
                                        Ad                             A B 1667        1116      Am (by
17158         AB 476          471                                                                Sec. 7
17159         AB 476          471       s                                                        ofCh.)
20012         S B 106          19       s
                                        Am               22855         AB1667          1116      Am
21101         A B 373         136       Am (by           22856         AB 1667         1116      Am
                                        Sec. 1.5         23126         A B 105          231      Ad
                                        ofCh.)           23130         A B 2254        1318      Am
              SB      15       168      Am (by           23270         A B 674          221      Am
                                        Sec. 3           23337         A B 1407        1075      Ad
                                        ofCh.)           23340         A B 387          138      Am, S "
              SB 1075        1365       Am               23341         AB 387           138      Am, S "
21104         SB 1075        1365       Am               23342         A B 387          138      Am, S " ,
21113         AB   62          26       Am               24001.5       AB1407          1075      Am
              SB 144           77       Am 165           24008.5       A B 322          300      Ad
21355         AB 990          840       Am 18 14S        24012         SB 458           341      Ad(RN)
21356         A B 852         834       Am -             24254         SB 458           341      Ad ( E N )
              SB   14        1101       Am (by           24403         S B 458          341      Am
                                        Sec. 1           24600         S B 458          341      Am
                                        of C h . ) , m   24603         S B 458          341      Am
                                        Am (by           24609         SB 458           341      Ad
                                        Sec. 3 of        24615         SB    40         949      Ad
                                        0 h    )18, 1«   25261         A B 462          218      Ad
21373           A B 1113        1061      Am             25262         S B 133            9      Am*
21400           S B 853         1033      B&Ad           25805         A B 315          132      Ad
21401           SB 853          1033      K&Ad           25952         S B 458          341      Am & RN,
21402           S B 853         1033      K                                                      Ad
21403           SB 853          1033      B                25953         S B 458         341     Am&BN
21404           SB 853          1033      B                26307         A B 315         132     Ad
21405           S B 853         1033      B                27156         S B 133            9    Am*
21406           SB 853          1033      B                              A B 1274        622     Am*
21453           AB 1932          246      Am                             A B 896        1253     Am*
21460.5         A B 839          418      Am               27160         A B 2254       1318     Am
21650           A B 373           136     Am               27454         SB 119          169     Am* 2 7
21653           A B 373          136      E                28051         SB     50       111     Am
   * Effective immediately.
  17
  M
     See Sec 311.5 of Ch re conflicting provisions.
  w
     Operative on July 1, 1970.
 148
     Subdivision (e) effective until May 1, 1975.
     Department of Public Works to publish regulations re yield-right-of-way signs by July 1, 1970; yield-right-
 156
        of-way signs in use prior to July 1, 1970 to conform to such regulations by July 1, 1971.
     Certain stop signs to be removed prior to January 1, 1971.
 w Operative until July 1, 1970.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                              371

                                 VEHICLE CODE—Continued
                   Bill     Chapter                                         Bill     Chapter
 Section           No.       No.           Effect         Section           No.        No.         Effect
28052        SB      50        Ill     Ad                              A B 1254       1598      Am (by
28101        AB     387        138     Am, S "                                                  Sec. 3
28103        AB     387        138     Am, S17"                                                 ofCh.)
28105        AB     387        138     Am, S             35714         SB 1075        1365      Am
28107        AB     387        138     Am, S»            35716         S B 616         393      Am
28108        AB     387        138     Am, S "           35752         S B 853        1033      Am
29000        SB     387        338     Am & RN,          35795         S B 1048       1150      Ad
                                       Ad(RN)            36010         SB 1303         697      Am
29001         SB 387           338     Am & RN,          36105         A B 593         808      Am
                                       Ad(RN)            36110         SB 1303         697      Am
29002         SB 387           338     R&Ad              36125         A B 594         472      Am
                                        (RN)             36300         S B 1303        697      Am
29003         SB 387          338      R&Ad              36500         SB    40        949      Am
29004         SB 387          338      Am & R N ,        36508         SB 525          632      Am (by
                                       Ad                                                       See. 2
                                                                                                         33
29200        AB 673            816     Am                                                       of Oh.)     *
31401        SB 133              9     Am (as ad                       SB   40         949      Am331
                                       by Stats.         36620         A B 160          28      Am*
                                       1968, Ch.         40000         S B 133           9      Am*
                                       1019)*3                         SB 937         1131      Am (by
34001.1      SB     201       187      Ad*                                                      Sec. 3
34005        AB      44      1214      Ad                                                       ofCh.)
34045        SB     181       175      Am*                             A B 1743       1279      Am (by
34506        SB     133         9      Am*                                                      Sec. 7
35250        AB     792       827      Am                                                       of Ch.)
35251        AB     792       827      Am                40300.5       SB, 176         956      Ad
35401        AB     315       132      Am                40303         AB2337          517      Am
             AB     903       543      Am {by            40309.5       S B 1009       1334      Ad
                                       Sec. 2            40503         AB1000         1056      Am
                                       ofCh.)            40505         AB1000         1056      Am
             SB 757           687      Am (by            40517         AB1000         1056      Am
                                       Sec. 2            40600         AB1000         1056      Ad
                                       of Oh.)           40601         AB1000         1056      Ad
35404        AB 1708          723      Ad                40602         AB1000         1056      Ad
35701        SB 1075         1365      Am                40603         AB1000         1056      Ad
35702        SB 1075         1365      Am                40604         AB1000         1056      Ad
35711        AB1254          1598      Am                42271         A B 849         833      Am (by
35712        SB 1075         1365      Am (by                                                   Seel
                                       Sec. 7                                                   of O h . ) *
                                       ofCh.)            42275         SB     886     1437      Ad

 * Effective immediately.
  3
  4 Operative July 1, 1969.
 17 Operative only until 91st day after final adjournment of 1971 Regular Session.
284
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
   Slow-moving vehicle emblems required pn certain implements of husbandry after July 1,1970,
372                      SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS

                                           WATER CODE
                 Bill     Chapter                                      Bill     Chapter
 Section         No.        No.           Effect        Section        No.        No.         Effect

  1T5        A B 413   482           Am20               6308      AB 688          363      Am & RN,
                                        26
  183        AB 413    482           Am28                                                  Ad ( R N )
             A B 412   800           Am26                6309     AB 688           363     Ad ( R N )
  185        AB 413    482           Am 28               6428     AB 688           363     Ad
             A B 412   800           Am 26             Div. 5,
  186        AB 413    482           Am                P t . 2,
  188.5      AB 413    482           Am28              Oh. 1
  230        AB 413    482           Am28
                                        28
                                                        (heading) SB 1018        1115      Ad ( R N )
  231        AB 413    482          Am                 Div. 5,
  835.1      AB 268    102           S                 P t . 2,
             SB 255 , 355           S*                 Ch.2
  335.4      A B 268   102          Am                  (heading) S B 1018       1115     Am&RN
                                         26
 1058        A B 413   482          Am26                 8300.1   SB 1018        1115     R
 1075        AB 413    482          Am26                 8325     SB 1018        1115     Ad
 1242.5      AB 413    482          Ad 86                8326     SB 1018        1115     Ad
 1243.5      AB 413    482          Ad 26              10505.5    AB 2139        1359      Ad
 1257        AB 413    482          Am                 11731      AB 516           14      Am*
             A B 2139 1359          Am (by             11751      AB 516           14     Am*
                                     Sec. 1 of         11910      SB 130           68     Am
                                     Ch.),R            11910.1    AB 1772         906      Ad
                                     (as am by         12510      AB 387          138      Am, S "
                                     Sec. 281 of       12516      AB2294          371      Am
                                    Ch.) ,             12582.5    SB 426          979     Ad 29
                                    Am (by             12617.1    AB 413          482     Ad
                                     Sec. 2 of         12648.7    AB 638         1443     Ad
                                    Ch.)292 9          12656.7    AB 1783        1284     Ad
 1258        A B 413        482     Am 181             12657      AB 638         1443      Am
 1455        AB1601        1087     Am, 161S           12718.1    AB 68            74      Ad
 1456        AB 1601       1087     R, S 161           12718.2    AB 68            74      Ad
 1526        AB1601        1087     Am, S181           12718.3    AB 68            74     Ad
 1529        AB 1601       1087     Am, S161           12727.1    SB 893         1038     Ad
 1529.1      AB 1601       1087     Am, S191           12727.2    SB 893         1038     Ad
 1530        AB1601        1087     Am, S191           12727.3    SB 893         1038     Ad
 1531        A B 1601      1087     Am, S191           12747      AB 1719        1456     Ad*
 1532        AB 1601       1087     Am, S181           12747.1    AB 1719        1456     Ad*
 1532.1      AB 1601       1087     Am, S181           12747.2    AB 1719        1456     Ad*
 1532.2      AB 1601       1087     Am, S191           12878      AB 1782         908     Am
 1533        AB 1601       1087     Am, S              12884.2    AB 1219        1065      S
                                            181
 1535        AB 1601       1087     Ad, S181                      AB1308         1070     S
 1536        AB 1601       1087     Ad, S              12887.1    SB 130           68     Am
 1540        AB 1601       1087     R191
                                       &Ad,            12923.1    AB 413          482     Ad29
                                    S 191              12945      SB 130           68     R (as ad
1541        A B 1601       1087     R, S 161
1542        AB 1601        1087     R, S                                                  by Stats.
1542.1      AB1601         1087           181
                                    R, S191                                               1965, Ch.
1543        AB1601         1087     R, S191                                               991)
1544        AB 1601        1087     R, S               12946      SB    130        68     R ( a s ad
1545        AB 1601        1087     R, S191191                                            by Stats.
1548        A B 1601       1087     Ad, S161                                              1965, Ch.
1549        AB 1601        1087     Ad, S                                                 991)
1560        AB 1601        1087     R, S181            12947      SB    130        68     R (as ad
                                       28
2100        AB 413          482     Ad29                                                  by Stats.
2101        AB 413          482     Ad29                                                   1965, Ch.
2102        AB 413          482     Ad 28                                                 991)
2862        AB 413          482     Am28               12948      SB 130           68     R (as ad
2863        A B 413         482     Am 28                                                 by Stats.
2866        AB 413          482     Am                                                    1965, Ch.
6032        AB2294          371     R                                                     991)
6300        AB 688          363     Am                 12949      SB    130        68     R (as ad
6301        AB 688          363     Am                                                    by Stats.
6307        A B 688         363     Am & RN,                                              1965, Ch.
                                     Ad            1                                      991)
  • Effective immediately.
«29 See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re lonflicting provisions.
161
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
    Recommendation to Legislature not later than Dece mber 1, 1969, plan for imposition 0 certain annual
       fees re appropriation of water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *    j    A

                            «3                                                                                                                                                                               §>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9 >>c»oo



      N C j N N N C J t 5 N C ) N C q M N N N P l N N M n N n N M D l C ) N N D l n N N N M « N N H M N N C 4 n N N C j N N N « f l N « « « N N
      OOXaOCOC«OOlOXCOOOC»(X>0000<X)aOaOaOOOOOOOXXOOOOC»»<X><»(»<X>C»GOW»
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    §
      ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 0 5 ^ ^ * ^ " * J i Tt* ^tTt^ T t i ^ ^ ^ ^ TP ^ "^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^t* ^ * ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ t * ^ ^ ^ ^ * ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ * ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^t* ^ ^


      05 00 SO M CO CO 5*3 CO 00 CO CO CO CO CO D3 ©3 CO « 0 3 CO CO CO CO CO CO ©5 03 00 05 CC C O M                                                                                                                                                         *3
      H H H H H H ^ H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H H Q O H H H H H H H H H H H r t H H H                                                                                                                       TH
      ^* ^^ ^^ ' ^ ^^ ' ^ OS ^^ ^ * ^T^ ^t^ ^^ ^^ "^ ^^ ^^ ^ l ^^ "<j^ ,?jH ^ l ^^ ^H ^^ ^ * *tjH ^H ^ l Tfl "^ TjH ^ l Tj^ ^J^ ^h "^h "^ Tt^ ^^ ^^ ^^ 'sO Th "^ ^^ ^^ ^t^ "^ ^P ^^ ^^ ^^ ^ * ^J^ ^^ ^ * "^P                                       ^l
wfc
      MMmMMMMMnfflM««Mm«MP3BMffl«MMffl«MM^                                                                                                                                                                                                          «


      ffit-OOS^O^OOWOrHC^C^COThlfflOTHINCO^lOeOOHOlCO^lOOl-Or-IINOS-flOCOt-OOOS                                                                                                             ©rH<N053!!OOt-©r-l<N03'*10'> , -J'CO'0
        00©OOOOiHrHi-lrHTHrHrHrHr-(T-lTHrHrir-lTHi-lrHrHr-tTHiHrHi-lrHi-lr-lrHtHTHT-lrHrHrHrH                                                                                              INOllNOJMINOJINCjlNINOaMCJ ^ - " t J S
      COCOCOO5C0C0O3WCOCOC0COC0OSc0COO5COC0O5o5O5O5OSC0O5COo5c0O3COO3O5O5O3O5O5o5O3O0O5CO                                                                                                  050505050505CO05050505050505SS< HA
      rHrHr-1r-(THrHr-ti-lTHr-(r^THiHrH^rHTHr-4rHr-(i-liHTHrtTHrHrHiHiHrHr-lTHT-trHr-(T-lrHr-li-lrHiHTH                                                                                     i-4r-lr-lr-lrHTHrHTHr-tr-lr-lr-tr-ii-lt-IU <<^-'

                                                                                                                                                                                                    n3




      "'^cBca08^ s s ^ ^ s n s,s s s u ^ n s s s u s n ! Iilstslis s « ^.s s s « * S 'S.S $8                                                                                                                       s s s i n n s i n :

      00                                                                                                                                                                                                  ININIMINNIMINCMINNINIMIMCI
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 010 00 00 03QOOOCCOOoO
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ^ l ^H ' ^ Tf^ ' ^ <!P ^> "'t' TP '*3' ^^ ^Ji ''T Tl^



      ©               eOo5o5eoeoeococoeoo5coo5coeoeoo305coo5coeocoo5eoo5o5o5t-t-i--t-coo503l--o3coo5eocoiN                                                                                                cococococoeococococococococo
      CO             THrHrHr-lrHrHrHrHrHTMi-HTHrHrHi-liHiHTHiHlHr-tr-liHT-ltHrHTHOOOOOOOOrHrHrHOOlHrHiHT-lr-li-f                                                                                          THiHrHr-lrHiHiHT-ti-Hr-tiHT-lTHTH
      iH             ^Tt<^^^^^T)<^^^TtH^rf(T|lTP'*'*'*-!tH-*-!((Tl<Tt(Ttf'*'*©©O©-*'*'*05'*'<tl'*'*T)H'^(                                                                                                 • ^ i ^ l ' ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ " ^ TP ' ^ ^ ^ ' ^ ' ^ ^ ^ * ^ ^ " ^


      pq              pQpq«w«m«MBP5pqtt«MnpqpqwmpQW«M«ffipqWMWMM«K«                                                                                                                                        P5«««pqn pq M P5« P5 M M n

      16                 •HIM05                          iH                                  CO       rHNOSTt*                        X3t-                                   U3                                  r-llMCO             IH<N05-*1O               TH
      ©
                    8 ©o ©©'©© ©r H©M©e©o ©i o©i or »t ri oHcrDHi r^torot ©N ©l 5©J' Mi rcj<Ci e^ <l Ni cC4 ^c 4McMo ^N i<oNi QW' »WoC' ©Or O- i 5c <0 i5eCo O© i^HTi ^5 a^ cTNhi   eo-*io©
                                                                                                                                                                                    51• * ^HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                           T H M M ( M ' I N 0 5 • * • * • * ' • * ' Tti • * M5 IO"

                    © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © ©                                                                                             © © © ©
                    CO CO 03 CO CO CO 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 3 0 5 0 5 0 5 0 5 CO 0 5 0 3 0 5 0 3 0 5 0 5 CO CO 05 CO CO                                 CO 0 5 0 5 CO          rHrHi-lr-lTHiHi-lrHr-iiHiHt-lrHrt
                    iHTHtHi-liHr-lrH-i-lrHrHi-lTHT-li-irHr-lTHrHriiHiHTHi-lT-lT-lrHTHT-lTHrHTHr-lrHT-lrH                                                                            i-lrHtHrH
374                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                                    WATER CODE—Continued
                    Bill    Chapter                               Bill     Chapter
Section             No.      No.         Effect       Section     No.       No.        Effect

13240         AB     413       482    Ad38            13522     AB   413     482     R&Ad 2 8
13241         AB     413       482    Ad28            13523     AB   413     482     R&Ad 2 8
13242         AB     413       482    Ad28            13524     AB   413     482     R&Ad 22 88
13243         AB     413       482    Ad26            13525     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13244         AB     413       482    Ad26            13526     AB   413     482        28
                                                                                     Ad26
13245         AB     413       482    Ad26            13527     AB   413     482     Ad 26
13246         AB     413       482    Ad226           13528     AB   413     482     Ad
1324T         AB     413       482    Ad 28"          13530     AB   413     482     R&Ad 2 8
13260         AB     413       482    Ad26            13540     AB   413     482     Ad28
13261         AB     413       482    Ad              13541     AB   413     482     Ad26 2 8
13262         AB     413       482    Ad28            13600     AB   413     482     R&Ad28
13263         AB     413       482    Ad28            13601     AB   413     482     R & A d 26
13264         AB     413       482    Ad28
                                         28
                                                      13602     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13265         AB     413       482    Ad28            13603     AB   413     482     R&Ad 22 88
13266         AB     413       482    Ad28            13604     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13267         AB     413       482    Ad 28                     AB   412     800     Am (as ad
13268         AB     413       482    Ad28                                           by Stats.
13269         AB     413       482    Ad                                             1969, Ch.
13300         AB     413       482    Ad28                                           482 J28 2 8
13301         AB     413       482    Ad26
                                         28
                                                      13605     AB   413     482     R &28A d
13302         AB     413       482    Ad28            13606     AB   413     482     Ad 28
13303         AB     413       482    Ad28            13607     AB   413     482     Ad28
13304         AB     413       482    Ad28            13608     AB   413     482     Ad
13305         AB     413       482    Ad              13625     AB   413     482     Ad28
              AB     412       800    Am ( a s ad     13626     AB   413     482     Ad29
                                                                                        28
                                      by Stats.       13627     AB   413     482     Ad28
                                      1969, Ch.       13628     AB   413     482     Ad 28
                                      48228J28        13629     AB   413     482     Ad
13320          A B 413         482    Ad              13630     AB   413     482     Ad28
               AB 412          800    Am (as ad       13631     AB   413     482     Ad26
                                      by Stats.       13700     AB   413     482     R & A d 22 88
                                      1969,28Ch.      13710     AB   413     482     R&Ad28
                                      48228)          13711     AB   413     482     R&Ad 28
13321          AB     413      482    Ad26            13750     AB   413     482     R & A d2 8
13330          AB     413      482    Ad28            13751     AB   413     482     R&Ad26
13331          AB     413      482    Ad28            13752     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13340          AB     413      482    Ad 26           13753     AB   413     482     R & A d 22 88
13350          AB     413      482    Ad              13754     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13360          AB     413      482    Ad28            13755     AB   413     482     R & A d 23 68
13361          AB     413      482    Ad28
                                         28
                                                      13800     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13400          AB     413      482    Ad29            13801     AB   413     482     R & A d 2266
13401          AB     413      482    Ad28            13802     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13410          AB     413      482    Ad 23           13803     AB   413     482     R & A d2*8
13411          AB     413      482    Ad28            13804     AB   413     482     R&Ad
13412          AB     413      482    Ad28            13805     AB   413     482     R&Ad26
13413          AB     413      482    Ad
               AB     412      800    Am (as ad       13806     AB   413     482     R&Ad28
                                      by Stats.                 AB   412     800     Am (as ad
                                      1969, Ch.                                      by Stats.
                                      482)»                                          1969, Ch.
13414         AB      413      482    Ad28                                           48226J28
13415         AB      413      482    Ad28 28         13900     AB   413     482     Ad28
13416         AB      413      482    Ad, S           13901     AB   413     482     Ad
13417         AB      413      482    Ad,26S28        13902     AB   413     482     Ad28
                                                                                        26
13440         AB      413      482    Ad28            13903     AB   413     482     Ad28
13441         AB      413      482    Ad28            33904     AB   413     482     Ad28
13442         AB      413      482    Ad              13905     AB   413     482     Ad 26
13500         AB      413      482    R&Ad36          13906     AB   413     482     Ad 38
13510         AB      413      482    R & A d 22 68   13907     AB   413     482     Ad
13511         AB      413      482    R&Ad28                    AB   412     800     Am (as ad
13512         AB      413      482    R&Ad38                                         by Stats.
13515         AB      413      482    R&Ad                                           1969, Ch.
13520         AB      413      482    R & A d 22 83                                  48228J28
13521         AB      413      482    R&Ad            13908     A B 413      482     Ad
26
     Operative on January 1,1970.
                            SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                         375

                                   WATER CODE—Continued
                  Bill      Chapter                                      Bill      Chapter
Section           No.        No.         Effect         Section          No.        No.       Effect

13950        A B 412          800     Ad (to          36428         AB1599          1085     Am*
                                      Div. 7          36434         A B 1599        1085     Am*
                                      as ad           36435         AB1599          1085     Ad*
                                      by Stats.       36436         AB 1599         1085     Ad*
                                      1969,28Ch.      36437         A B 1599        1085     Ad*
                                      482 J           37203         A B 1034         241     S*
13951     AB1943             1356     Ad*»            37203.1       A B 1034         241     Ad*
Div. 10,                                              40331         AB 1600         1086     Am*
Ch. 1 (com-                                           41152         AB1600          1086     B*
mencing                                               42200         AB1600          1086     Am*
                                      g20O
20000)    AB 1746            1396                     42276         AB1600          1086     Am*
20527     AB1005              152     S*              43003         AB1600          1086     Am*
          S B 768             496     S*              43003.5       AB1600          1086     Ad*
20527.6   AB1005              152     Ad*             43006         AB1600          1086     Am*
20527.7   S B 768             496     Ad*             44750         AB1600          1086     Am*
21100     SB 768              496     S*              44800         AB1600          1086     Am*
22123     S B 97             1374     Ad              44800.5       AB1600          1086     Ad*
22185     AB 84               533     Ad              45102         AB1600          1086     Am*
22186     AB 84               533     Ad              45553         AB1600          1086     Am*
26131     AB1223             1346     Am, S           45555         AB1600          1086     Am*
26225     AB 1223            1346     Am, S           45557         AB1600          1086     Am*
26275     AB 1223            1346     Am, S           45558         AB1600          1086     Am*
26290     AB 1223            1346     Am,S            45903         AB1600          1086     Am*
26601     AB 281               63     Am              46009         AB1600          1086     Am*
26602     AB 281               63     Am              46155         AB1600          1086     Am*
26603     AB 281               63     Am              46225         AB1600          1086     Am*
26604.5   A B 281              63     Ad              46256         AB1600          1086     Am*
26606     AB 281               63     Am              46325         AB1600          1086     Am*
26655     AB 281               63     Am              46378         AB1600          1086     Am*
26656     A B 281              63     Am              46379         AB1600          1086     S*
          AB1223             1346     Am, S           46382         AB1600          1086     Ad*
26658     AB 281               63     Am              46759.5       AB1600          1086     Ad*
          AB 1223            1346     Am, S           46760         AB1600          1086     Am*
30021     A B 624             100     S*              46792         AB1600          1086     Am*
30065     AB2055              934     Am              47903         AB1600          1086     Am*
30700.6   AB 624              100     Ad*             47904         AB1600          1086     Am*
31054     AB 46                18     Am              47980         AB1600          1086     Ad*
31100     A B 1750            898     Am              47981         AB1600          1086     Ad*
31121      SB 241             629     Ad              47982         AB1600          1086     Ad*
31304     AB1293              507     Am              51362         SB 668           292     Am*
35525     AB 1599            1085     Ad*             52104         SB 501           194     Am*
35526     AB 1599            1085     Ad*             55187         S B 740          356     R&Ad*
35527     A B 1599           1085     Ad*             55305         A B 840          315     Ad
35528     AB1599             1085     Ad*             70002         AB2294           371     R
35529     AB1599             1085     Ad*             71281         SB 230            71     Ad
35530     A B 1599           1085     Ad*             71510         S B 230           71     Am
85531     AB1599             1085     Ad*             71596         A B 2294         371     R
35532     A B 1599           1085     Ad*             71616         S B 813          708     Am
35533     AB1599             1085     Ad*             71861         A B 2056         600     Am*
35534     AB 1599            1085     Ad*             71911         SB 813           708     Am
35535     AB 1599            1085     Ad*             71937         SB 813           708     Am
35536     AB 1599            1085     Ad*             71953         AB 2056          600     Am*
35537     AB1599             1085     Ad*             71960         A B 2056         600     Am*
35538     A B 1599           1085     Ad*             72031         S B 813          708     Am
35951      AB1599            1085     Am*             72687         S B 230           71     Am
36410      AB 1599           1085     Am*             72709         SB 230            71     Am
36411     A B 1599           1085     Am*             74228         A B 2294         371     Am
36412     AB1599                                      74229         AB2294           371     Am
                             1085     Am*             74950         A B 824          414     Am, S
36424      AB 1599           1085     Am*             74951         A B 824          414     S
36425      AB 1599           1085     Am*             74952         A B 824          414     S
36426     A B 1599           1085     Am*             74953         A B 824          414     R

 * Effective immediately.
 26
200
    Operative on January 1,1970.
   Operative at same time Governor's Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969 becomes operative.
376                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                            WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE
                   Bill       Chapter                                     Bill      Chapter
Section            No.          No.           Effect     Section          No.        No.          Effect
  506          S B 113          260        Am            3306      AB 859            1425      Ad
  509          SB 645          1001        Am            4000      AB 387             138      Am, S17
  509.5        AB 658          1240        Ad            4014      SB 427            1120      Am
  515          SB 680          1011        Am»            4104     SB 1433           1339      S*
  525          AB 659            310       Am             4106.1   AB 986             722      Ad* 2 1
  526          AB 659            310       Am             4107.1   SB 1433           1339      Ad* a
  631          S B 669         1008        Am             4112.1   AB 986             722      A d * 21
  631.1        S B 669         1008        Ad             4117     AB 986             722      Am* a
  660          S B 490           664       Am             4119     AB 986             722      Am*
  675          SB 142            185       Am 29          4125     AB 1475           1272      Am
  740.1        SB 252          1608        R, S           4200     AB 107             459      Am
  883          AB 102            590       Am             4201     AB 107             459      Am
  902          AB 1622           437       Am             4202     AB 107             459      Am
  905          AB 1622           437       Am             4202.5   AB 107             459      Ad
  908          AB 1622           437       Am             4203     AB 107             459      Am
  909          AB 1622           437       Am             4300     AB 1776            907      Am
 1076          SB 1040           645       Am             4307     AB 1776            907      Am a
 1150          SB 1040           645       R              4318     AB 986             722      Ad*
 1710          AB 387            138       Am, S17        4319     AB 986             722      Ad* 2211
 1720          SB 640            348       Am             5008     AB 986             722      Am*2 1
 1731.5        SB 1297           785       Am             5008.1   AB 986             722      Ad* a
 1737.1        AB 1888           924       Am             5110     A B 986            722      Am*
 1738          S B 1299        1197        Am            Div. 5,
 1752.2        AB 1205           864       Ad            Pt.l,
 1752.8        A B 1475        1272        Am            Ch.2,
 1752.85       AB 572            803       Ad            Art. 1
 1760.4        AB 102            590       Am            (heading) SB 1389           1472      Am
 1768          SB 769          1023        Am             5153     AB 986             722      Am* a2 1
 1820          SB 267            335       S              5156     AB 986             722      Ad*
 1821          SB 267            335       S              5170     SB 1389           1472      Ad
               SB 428          1415        Am, S          5171     SB 1389           1472      Ad
 1822          SB 267            335       S              5172     SB 1389           1472      Ad
 1823          SB 267            335       S              5173     SB 1389           1472      Ad
 1824          S B 267           335       S              5174     SB 1389           1472      Ad
 1825          SB 267            335       S              5175     SB 1389           1472      Ad
               SB 428          1415        Am, S          5176     SB 1389           1472      Ad 2 1
 1826          SB 267            335       S              5203     AB 986             722      Am* 2 1
               SB 428          1415        Am, S          5212     AB 986             722      Am* a
 1827          SB 267            335       R              5225     A B 986            722      A m *2 1
                SB 428          1415       R, S           5226.1   AB 986             722      Am* 2 1
 1830           SB 456           585       Am             5230     AB 986             722      Am*
 1850          S B 1291        1193        Ad             5252     A B 986            722      Am*2311
 1851          SB 1291         1193        Ad             5252.1   AB 986             722      Ad* 2 1
 1852          SB 1291         1193        Ad             5254     AB 986             722      Am*
 1853          SB 1291         1193        Ad            Div. 5,
 1854          S B 1291        1193        Ad            Pt. 1,
 1855          SB 1291         1193        Ad            Ch.2,
 1856          SB 1291         1193        Ad            Art. 3.5
 1857           SB 1291        1193        Ad            (heading) AB 986              722      Am&RN
 1858           SB 1291        1193        Ad                                                   (as ad by
 1859          S B 1291        1193        Ad                                                   Stats.
 1860          SB 1291         1193        Ad 3                                                 1968, Ch.
 1861          SB 1291         1193        Ad» 17                                               1374)*a
 3004          AB 387            138       Am, S         Div. 5,
 3053          AB 829            238       Am            Pt.l,
 3109          A B 829           238       Am 17         Oh. 2,
 3150          A B 387           138       Am, S         Art. 4.5
 3151          AB 829            238       Am            (heading ) A B 986            722      Ad
 3300          A B 387           138       Am, S "                                              (RN)*21
 * Effective immediately.
 17
 21
    See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
 26
    Operative on July 1, 1969.
118
    Operative on January 1, 1970.
      Amendments effective until 61st day after final adjournment of 1970 Regular Session; on and after such
142
        date, section shall read as it did immediately prior to effective date of act.
      Report to LegMatuie no later than fifth legislate day of 1974 Regular Session on experiences and lesults
        of provisions of article re youth correctional centers.
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                       377

             WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE—Continued
                  Bill       Chapter                                   Bill    Chapter
Section           No.          No.        Effect        Section        No.      No.          Effect

5260         AB     986        722     R (as ad         5362      AB     986      722     Am*21
                                       by S t a t s .   5366      AB     986      722     Am* a
                                       1968, Ch.        5400      AB     986      722     Am* »
                                       1170)* a         5401      AB     986      722     Am*21
5261         AB     986        722     R (as ad         5603      AB     986      722     Am*21
                                       by S t a t s .   5604      AB     986      722     Am (by
                                       1968, Ch.                                          S e c . 3 3 of
                                       1170),                                             Oh.)*21,
                                       Am (as ad                                          R (as am
                                       by S t a t s .                                     by Sec. 3 3
                                       1968, C h .                                        of O h . ) ,
                                       1374)*a                                            Am (by
5262         AB        986     722     R ( a s ad                                         Sec. 3 4
                                       by Stats.                                          ofCh.)
                                       1968, Oh.                  SB     427    1120      Am (by
                                       1170) * a                                          Sec. 4
5263        AB      986        722     R ( a s ad                                         of C h . )
                                       by S t a t s .   5650      S B 427       1120      Am
                                       1968, Ch.        5654      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       1170) * a        5654.5    A B 986        722      Ad*a
5264         AB        986     722     R (as ad         5659      A B 986        722      A m * ^-
                                       by Stats.        5660      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       1968, Ch.        5702.1    A B 986        722      Ad*21
                                       1170)            5709      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       A m (as ad
                                       bv S t a t s .
                                                        5709.5    A B 986        722      Am*3 a1
                                                        5709.6    A B 986        722      Am*
                                       1968, C h .      5713      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       1374) * a        5715      A B 986        722      Am*21
5265         AB     986        722     R (asad          5716      A B 986        722      Am*"
                                       by S t a t s .   5718      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       1968, Oh.        5750      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       1170)* »         5755      A B 986        722      A m * a> e a
5266         AB        986     722     R (as ad         5765      A B 986        722      A m * a> «
                                       by S t a t s .   6000      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       1968, C h .                A B 225       1594      S
                                       1170)*a          6002      A B 986        722      Ad*21
5267         AB     986        722     R (asad          6004      A B 986        722      Am*21
                                       by S t a t s .   6007      A B 986        722      Ad*a
                                       1968, C h .      6008      A B 986        722      Ad*21
                                       1 1 7 0 ) * 21   6250      A B 986        722      R & Ad* a
5268         AB        986     722     R ( a s ad       6300.1    A B 986        722      Ad*a
                                       by Stats.        6310      SB 1027       1140      Am
                                       1968, Ch.        6357      A B 1480       624      Am
                                       1170)*a          6406      A B 1480       624      Am
5275         A B 986           722     Am*21            6457      A B 986        722      Ad
5276         A B 986           722     A m "                                              (RN)*21
5277         A B 986           722     Am*a             6467      AB     986      722     Am&
5278         A B 986           722     Am*a                                               RN*a
5302         A B 986           722     Am*21            6500      A B 225       1594      Am 1 6 2
5307         A B 986           722     R*a              6501      A B 1480       624      Am
5328         A B 986           722     Am»»             6502      A B 1480       624      Am
5328.1       A B 986           722     Ad*21            6509      A B 1480       624      Am
5350         A B 986           722     Am*21            6550      A B 986        722      R & Ad* a
5352         A B 986           722     Am*21            6551      A B 986        722      Ad*21
5352.1       A B 986           722     Ad*21            7000.1    S B 840       1107      R
5353         A B 986           722     Am*21            7003.1    A B 1340      1451      Ad, S
5357         A B 986           722     Am*21            7003.2    A B 1340      1451      Ad, S
5358.5       AB 986            722     R * a            7300      A B 986        722      Am* a
5360         A B 986           722     Am*21            7301      S B 702       1128      Am
5361         A B 986           722     Am* a            7302      A B 986        722      Am*a
  * Effective immediately.
21
   Operative on July  1, 1969.
62
    By March 15 1971, State Department of Mental Hygiene shall adopt a flve-year state plan for community
        mental health services.                                                                         *
 «3 Report to Legislature re state flve-year mental health plan and changes therein no later than March
182
        15, 1971 and March 15 each subsequent year.
    Operative on July 1, 1971.
378                      SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

             WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE—Continued
                 Bill      Chapter                                        Bill      Chapter
Section          No.        No.          Effect         Section           No.        No.          Effect

7305           A B 986            722      A m "          11017        A B 1477         998     Ad* U 4 '
7325           A B 986            722      Am*21                                                U2
                                                                                                   , S
7326            S B 758         1021       Am \           11025        AB 1351        1418      Ad, S* "
7351           A B 986           722       A m "          11026        A B 1351       1418      Ad, S* m
7352           A B 986            722      Am*21          11027        A B 1351        1418     Ad, S* "
7356            AB1190            863      Am             11028        AB 1351         1418     Ad, S* <*
7375            A B 1249          866       Am            11029        A B 1351        1418     Ad, S* <*
7511            A B 225         1594       Am             11030        A B 1351        1418     Ad, S* m
7553            A B 986           722       Am*21         11031        A B 1351        1418     Ad, S* m
                                                   21
7604            A B 986           722       Am*           11032         A B 1351       1418     Ad, S* <*
7706            A B 986           722       Am* 2 1       11033         AB 1351        1418     Ad, S* m
 8101           S B 758         1021        Am            11034         A B 1351       1418     Ad, S* <*
8103            A B 986           722       Am*21         11035         A B 1351       1418     Ad, S* «
 8104           S B 250         1119       Ad             11052.5       AB      35        21    Am*
 8105           S B 250         1119        A(JS1         11102         A B 629         484     Am
 8150           A B 1540           887      R             11171         S B 232         117     Am
                S B 840         1107        R                           S B 1120       1163     Am
 8151           A B 1540          887       R             11171.5       S B 999         660     Ad*
                S B 840         1107       R              11172         SB 999          660     Am*
 8152           AB1540             887      R             11211         S B 1091       1505     Ad184
                 S B 840         1107       R              11351        SB 857         1417     Am
 8153           A B 1540           887      R              11351.5      S B 857        1417     Ad
                 S B 840         1107       R              11453        A B 1477        998     Am* l l s
 8154           A B 1540           887      R              13600        SB 847         1416     Am
                 S B 840         1107       R              13601        S B 847        1416     Ad
 8155            A B 1540          887      R              13921        AB      35        21    Am*
                 S B 840         1107       R                           A B 387          138     Am, S17
 8156            AB1540            887      R              13922        AB 387           138     Am, S17
                 S B 840         1107       R              13923        A B 387          138     Am, S17
 8157            A B 1540          887       R             13933         SB 999          660     Ad*
                 S B 840         1107       R              14000        AB       35       21     Am*
10053.5          A B 986           722      Am*21          14000.1      AB       35       21     Am*
10550            A B 387            138      Am, S "       14000.3      AB       35        21    Am*
                                                      107
10557            A B 1781        1283        Am, S         14001        AB       35        21    Am*
                                                      107
10605            A B 1781        1283        Am, S         14002        AB       35        21    Am*
10655            AB       87       469       Am            14004        AB       35        21    Am*
10750            A B 387           138       Ad, 8 "       14005        AB       35       21     Am*
10751            A B 387            138      Ad, S "       14005.1      AB       35        21    Am*
10752            A B 387            138      Ad, S17       14005.2       AB      35        21    Am*
                                                     17
10753            A B 387            138      Ad, S         14005.3       AB      35        21    Ad*
                                                     17
10754            A B 387            138      Ad, S         14005.5       AB      35        21    Ad*
10755            A B 387            138      Ad, S17       14006         AB      35        21    Am*
10756            A B 387            138      Ad, S17       14007         AB      35        21    Am*
10801            A B 1781         1283       Am, S1»7      14008         AB      35        21    Am*
10803            A B 1781         1283       Am, S107      14008.5       AB      35        21    Am*
10850            A B 678          1445       Am            14009         AB      35        21    Am*
                                                   107
10901            A B 1781         1283       R, S           14010        AB      35        21    R*
10902            A B 1781         1283       R, S107        14014        AB      35        21    Am*
10903            A B 1781         1283       R, S107        14018        AB      35        21    Am*
                                                   107
10904            A B 1781         1283       R, S           14020        AB      35        21    Am*
10960            A B 909          1255       Am             14021        AB      35        21    Am*, R 2
10962            A B 909          1255       Am                                                  Am (as am
11006             S B 924         1041       Am                                                   by Stats.
11006.2           A B 1334          509      Ad                                                  1968, Ch.
11008.7           S B 870         1377       Am*                                                  1374) 2
    * Effective immediately.
    a Operative July 1, 1969.
   17
   31
      See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
      Operative on July 1, 1969.
   •Effective until July 1, 1974, or such earlier date as Governor may deteimine when goals have been achieved
   81
          and no force or effect after that date.
  107
      Operative July 1, 1971.
  112
      Operative  January 1, 1970.
  113
      Operative with respect to aid to families with dependent children on April 1, 1970.
  114
       Operative  April 1, 1970, counties to comply with provisions no latei than July 1, 1970.
      Operative with lespcct to aid to the aged, aid to the blind, aid to the potentially self-supporting blind,
  184
          and  aid  to the needy disabled on December 1, 1969.
      Operative only on a demonstration project basis in a single, urban county selected by the depaitment, and
          only during such time as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare has waived compliance with Sec-
          tion 402 of Social Security Act as permitted by Section 1115 of that act.
                          SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                             379

              WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE—Continued
                 Bill      Chapter                                         Bill     Chapter
 Section         No.        No.           Effect         Section           No.       No.           Effect
14022       AB 947           475      Ad                14150.4       AB      35         21    R (as ad
14052       AB 35             21      R*                                                       by Stats.
14053       AB 35             21      Am*                                                      1967, Ch.
14053.5     AB 35             21      Am*                                                      1619)*,
14053.6     AB 35             21      Am*                                                      Am (as ad
14056       AB 35             21      Am*                                                      by Stats.
14057.5     AB 35             21      Ad*                                                      1967, Ch.
14059       AB 35             21      Am*                                                      1667)*
14061       AB 35             21      Am* 17           14150.5        AB      35        21     R*
            AB 387           138      Am, S            14154          AB      35        21     Am* 2
14062       AB 35             21      Am*              14155          AB      35        21     Am*, R
            AB 387           138      Am, S "                                                  Am ( a s
14100.1     A B 35            21      Am*                                                      am by
            AB 387           138      Am, S»                                                   Stats.
14103       AB 35             21      Am*                                                      1968, Ch.
14103.2     AB 1454         1419      Ad                                                       1264) 2
14103.6     SB 590           994      Am               14156         A B 35             21     Am*
14104       AB 35             21      Am*                            A B 387           138     Am, S "
            AB 1464          880      Am               14157         AB 35              21     Am*
14105       AB 35             21      Am*                            A B 387           138     Am, S "
            A B 1595        1274      Am               14158         A B 35             21     Am*
14105.5     AB 1341         1452      Ad               14159         AB 35              21     Ad*
14106       AB 35             21      Am*              14160         AB 642            814     Ad
14106.5     A B 1466        1079      Ad               14500         A B 35             21     R*
14107       AB 949           562      Ad               14501         A B 35             21     R*
14108.5     AB 35             21      Am*              14502         AB 35              21     R*
14109       AB 35             21      Am*              14503         AB 35              21     R*
14111       AB 35             21      Am*              14504         AB   35            21     R*
14112       AB 35             21      Am*              14505         AB 5 5             21     R*
14113       AB 35             21      Am*              14506         A B 35             21     R*
14114       AB 35             21      Am*              14507         AB 35              21     R*
14115       AB 35             21      Am*              14508         AB 35              21     R*
            AB1906          1292      Am               14509         AB   35            21     R*
14115.5     AB 592           807      Ad               14510         A B 35             21     R*
14117       AB 35             21      Am*              14511         AB 35              21     R*
            AB 1460         1420      R &2A d          14512         A B 35             21     R*
14119       AB 35             21      Am               14513         A B 35             21     R*
14121       AB 35             21      Ad*              14514         A B 35             21     R*
14122       AB 35             21      Ad*              14550         A B 35             21     R*
14123       SB 590           994      Ad 91            14551         A B 35             21     R*
14124       AB 950          1386      Ad               14552         AB 35              21     R*
14125       AB 35             21      Am*              14553         A B 35             21     R*
            A B 387          138      Am, S "          14554         A B 35             21     R*
14126       AB 35             21      Am*              14555         AB 35              21     R*
            AB 387           138      Am, S17 2        14556         AB 35              21     R*
14150       A B 35            21      Am*, R           14557         AB 35              21     R*
                                      Am (as am        14600         AB 35              21     R*
                                      by Stats.        14601         A B 35             21     R*
                                      1968, 2Ch.       14602         A B 35             21     R*
                                      1264)            14603         AB 35              21     R*
14150.1     AB      35         21     Am*, R 2         14604         A B 35             21     R*
                                      Am (as am        14605         A B 35             21     R*
                                      by Stats.        14606         A B 35             21     R*
                                      1968, 2Ch.       14607         AB 35              21     R*
                                      1264)            14608         A B 35             21     R*
14150.2        A B 35             21  Am*              14610         A B 35             21     R*
               A B 387          138   Am, S "          14611         A B 35             21     R*
 * Effective immediately.
17a Operative July 1, 1969.
81
   See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
    Director shall adopt regulations implementing provisions of section within 60 days after effective date of
       act.
380                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                  WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE—Continued
                       Bill      Chapter                                Bill    Chapter
 Section               No.        No.            Effect    Section      No.      No.           Effect
14612           AB 35               21       E*           19010       SB 840     1107     Ad
14613           AB 35               21       E* ,         19011       SB 840     1107     Ad
14615           AB 35               21       E* v         19012       SB 840     1107     Ad
14616           AB 35               21       E*           19013       SB 840     1107     Ad
14650           A B 35              21       B*           19014       SB 840     1107     Ad
14652           AB 35               21       E*           19015       SB 840     1107     Ad
14653           A B 35              21       E*           19016       SB 840     1107     Ad
15201            SB 255            355       S*           19017       SB 840     1107     Ad
15202           SB 255             355       S*           19018       SB 840     1107     Ad
15203           SB 255             355                    19075       SB 840     1107     Ad
15204           S B 255            355       s*           19076       S B 840    1107     Ad
16117            SB 140            261       s*
                                             Am           19077       SB 840     1107     Ad
16118            SB 140            261      Am            19078       SB 840     1107     Ad
16151           AB 1779           1282       Am           19079       SB 840     1107     Ad
16304           AB 387             138       Am, S "      19080       SB 840     1107     Ad
17001           AB 2294            371       Am           19100      SB 840      1107     Ad 82
17108           A B 35              21       Am*                     AB 2109     1565     Ad 82
18300           AB 387             138       Am, S "       19100.1   A B 2109    1565     Ad82
18303           A B 387            138       Am, S17"      19101     A B 2109    1565     Ad82
18305           AB 387             138       Am, S        19102      AB 2109     1565     Ad82
18700           SB 840            1107      E             19103      A B 2109    1565     Ad 82
18701           SB 840            1107      R             19104      AB 2109     1565     Ad
18702            SB 840           1107      R              19105     AB2109      1565     Ad82
                                                                                             82
18703            SB 840           1107      E              19106     AB2109      1565     Ad82
18704            SB 840           1107      R              19107     A B 2109    1565     Ad82
18705            SB 840           1107      R              19108     AB 2109     1565     Ad82
18706           SB 840            1107      R              19109     AB 2109     1565     Ad82
18707           S B 840           1107      R              19110     AB 2109     1565     Ad
18708            SB 840           1107      R              19150      SB 840     1107     Ad
18709            SB 840           1107      E 82           19151     SB 840     1107      Ad
                AB 532            1369      Am             19152     SB 840      1107     Ad
 18750           SB 840           1107      E             19153      SB 840     1107      Ad
 18751          SB 840            1107      E             19154      SB 840     1107      Ad
 18800           SB 840           1107      E              19200     SB 840      1107     Ad
 18801           SB 840           1107      E              19300     SB 840      1107     Ad
 18820          SB 840            1107      E             19301      SB 840     1107      Ad
 18840          S B 840           1107      E             19325      SB 840     1107      Ad
18841           SB 840            1107      E             19326      SB 840     1107      Ad
18842           SB 840           1107       E             19400      S B 840    1107      Ad
 18843          SB 840            1107      E              19401     SB 840     1107      Ad
18850           S B 840          1107       E             19402      S B 840    1107      Ad
18851           SB 840           1107       E             19450      SB 840     1107      Ad
18852           SB 840           1107       R             19451      SB 840     1107      Ad
18870           SB 840           1107       E             19500      SB 840     1107      Ad
18871           S B 840          1107       E             19501      SB 840     1107      Ad
18872           SB 840           1107       R             19502      SB 840     1107      Ad
18873           SB 840           1107       E             19503      SB 840     1107      Ad
18874           SB 840           1107       R             19504      SB 840     1107      Ad
18875           SB 840           1107       R             19505      SB 840     1107      Ad
18876           SB 840           1107       R             19506      SB 840     1107      Ad
18877           SB 840           1107       R             19525      SB 840     1107      Ad
18878           SB 840           1107       R             19526      SB 1045    1147      Ad
19000           SB 840           1107       Ad            19550      SB 840     1107      Ad
19001           SB 840           1107       Ad            19551      SB 840     1107      Ad
19002           SB 840           1107       Ad            19552      SB 840     1107      Ad
19003           SB 840           1107       Ad            19553      S B 840    1107      Ad
19004           SB 840           1107       Ad            19554      SB 840     1107      Ad
19005           SB 840           1107       Ad            19555      SB 840     1107      Ad
19006           SB 840           1107       Ad            19556      SB 840     1107      Ad
19007           SB 840           1107       Ad            19557      SB 840     1107      Ad
19008           SB 840           1107       Ad            19558      SB 840     1107      Ad
19009           SB 840           1107       Ad            19559      S B 840    1107      Ad
M
 * Effective immediately.
82
     See Sec. 311 5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions.
     Not operative.
                        SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS                                     381

            WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE—Continued
                Bill     Chapter                                  BUI    Chapter
Section         No.        No.        Effect       Section        No.      No.        Effect

19560      SB     840     1107     Ad              19702     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
19561      SB     840     1107     Ad                                              Div. 10,
19562      SB     840     1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
19563      SB     840     1107     Ad                                              by Stats.
19564      SB     840     1107     Ad                                              1969, Ch.
19565      SB     840     1107     Ad                                              1107)
19566      SB     840     1107     Ad              19703     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
19567      SB     840     1107     Ad                                              Div. 10,
19568      SB     840     1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
           AB     532     1369     Am (as ad                                       by Stats.
                                   by Stats.                                       1969, Ch.
                                   1969, Ch.                                       1107)
                                   1107)           19704     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
19569      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              Div. 10,
19570      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
19571      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              by Stats.
19572      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1969, Ch.
19573      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1107)
19574      SB    840      1107     Ad              19705     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
19575      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              Div. 10,
19576      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
19577      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              by Stats.
19578      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1969, Ch.
19600      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1107)
19601      SB    840      1107     Ad              19706     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
19602      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              Div. 10,
19603      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
19604      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              by Stats.
19605      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1969, Ch.
19606      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1107)
19607      SB    840      1107     Ad              19707     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
19608      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              Div. 10,
19609      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
19610      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              by Stats.
19611      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1969, Ch.
19625      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              1107)
19626      SB    840      1107     Ad              19708     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
19627      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              Div. 10,
19628      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
19629      SB    840      1107     Ad                                              by Stats.
           AB    968      1370     Am (as ad                                       1969, Ch.
                                   by Stats.                                       1107)
                                   1969, Ch.       19709     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
                                   1107)                                           Div. 10,
19630      SB 840         1107     Ad                                              P t . 2 as ad
19631      SB 840         1107     Ad                                              by Stats.
19632      SB 840         1107     Ad                                              1969, Ch.
19633      S B 840        1107     Ad                                              1107)
19700      A B 2109       1565     Ad (to          19710     A B 2109     1565     Ad (to
                                   Div. 10,                                        Div. 10,
                                   P t . 2 as ad                                   P t . 2 as ad
                                   by Stats.                                       by Stats.
  -                                1969, Ch.                                       1969, Ch.
                                   1107)                                           1107)
19700.1    AB2109         1565     Ad (to          19800     SB    840    1107     Ad26
                                   Div. 10,        19801     SB    840    1107     Ad28
                                   P t . 2 as ad   19802     SB    840    1107     Ad28 28
                                   by Stats.       19803     SB    840    1107     Ad28
                                   1969, Ch.       19804     SB    840    1107     Ad26
                                   1107)           19805     SB    840    1107     Ad
19701      AB 2109        1565     Ad (to          19806     SB    840    1107     Ad28
                                   Div. 10,        19807     SB    840    1107     Ad28
                                   P t . 2 as ad   19808     SB    840    1107     Ad28
                                   by Stats.       19809     SB    840    1107     Ad 28
                                   1969, Ch.       19810     SB    840    1107     Ad28
                                   1107)           19811     SB    840    1107     Ad 28
  Operative on January 1,1970.
382                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTEES

               WELFARE AND INSTITUTIONS CODE—Continued
                    Bill      Chapter                                Bill    Chapter
Section             No.        No.         Effect       Section      No.       No.        Effect

19812          SB 840          1107     Ad28            19853     S B 1389   1472      Ad (to
19813          S B 840         1107     Ad 33 ,                                        Div. 10,
19850          SB 1389         1472     Ad (k>                                         P t . 2 as ad
                                        Div. 10,                                       by Stats.
                                        P t . 2 as ad                                  1969, Ch.
                                        by Stats.                                      1107)
                                        1969, Oh.       19854     S B 1389   1472      Ad (to
                                        1107)
19851          SB 1389         1472     Ad (to                                         Div. 10,
                                        Div. 10,                                       P t . 2 as ad
                                        P t . 2 as ad                                  by Stats.
                                        by Stats.                                      1969, Ch.
                                        1969, Ch.                                      1107)
                                        1107)           19855     S B 1389   1472      Ad (to
19852          S B 1389        1472     Ad (to                                         Div. 10,
                                        Div. 10,                                       P t . 2 as ad
                                        P t . 2 as ad
                                        by Stats.                                      by Stats.
                                        1969, Ch.                                      1969, Ch.
                                        1107)                                          1107)

26
     Operative on January 1, 1970,
                             SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                            383
                              STATUTES OTHER THAN CODES
Statute                                                   Statute
Affected           Bill      Chapter                      Affected           Bill      Chapter
Chapter            No.         No.        Effect          Chapter            No.         No.         Effect

1913                                                      1959
   99        A B 1139          243     Ad 71                497        S B 327         1375      Ami
1915                                                       1062        S B 1202        1179      S89
  755        A B 1987          450     Am 7                2127        A B 248           82      Am 6
                                       A d 7 . 1 , 7.2,                                          Ad 21.5*
                                       7.3, 7.4            2146        A B 367            34     A d 38»
                                                                       A B 1915          449     A m 68, 69,
1923
                                                                                                 72
xciii                                                                                            Ad 72.1
(initia-
tive)                                                     1 9 6 0 (First Ex. Sess.)
              S B 1332        1201     Ami
                                                               81         S B 800        174     Am 26
1927                                                           82        A B 668         236     A m 77
  429        A B 1257          209     R & A d all                                               Ad 77a
             S B 1055          230     A d 7.5*, R        1961
  723        S B 1059          295     A m 1 4 * *»         888         SB     255       355     S2.1 (Item
             A B 855           316     Am 2                                                      339)*
  808        A B 1171          426     Am 6                 1003         A B 133         33      Am 14*
1939                                                        1302         S B 255        355      S*
   73        AB      709        31     S20                 1435          S B 815       1027      Am 15
                                       Ad 20.1*           1 9 6 2 (First Ex. Sess.)
1 9 4 4 (Second Ex. Sess.)                                     40        A B 435         109     A m 18,
     44       S B 534          196     A m 7.1, 12*                                              19, 2 2 ,
              A B 630          407     A d 7.8                                                   29
                                                                                                 Ad 19.5
1945                                                      1 9 6 2 (Second Ex. Sess.)
 1122        SB      551       198     Ad 23.2                   1      S B 255          355     S2.1 (Item
             SB      676       586     Am 9                                                      345)*
 1505        AB      584       805     S2                 1963
1949                                                       1242        AB      993      1597     A m 2, 4 ,
  994        A B 1554          656     A m 2,                                                    4 . 5 , 5, 7
                                       1 3 10,             1758        SB      255      355      Sail*
                                       1311                1797        SB      846     1032      Am 3*
                                       16,19               1946        AB      584      805       S I (as
                                                                                                  am by
1951                                                                                              Stats.
 1020        SB      642      1000     S 2 (Item                                                 1 9 6 8 , Oh.
                                       362.1)                                                     1366)
 1405        SB      356        92     Am 31              1 9 6 3 (First Ex. Sess.)
 1656        AB      101       374     A m 8.2
                                       R6.4*                   15        S B 255         355     S2.1 (Item
1953                                                                                             361)
 1532        A B 1189          427     Ad 38.4,                                                  S2.2 (Item
                                       38.5, 38.6                                                381)
 1598        SB      178        89     A m 17                                                    S2.25
                                                                                                 (Item
1955
  503        A B 1551          769     A m 15, 46*                                               406.8)*
             A B 1552          888     A m 8, 2 6         1 9 6 4 (First Ex. Sess.)                              -
  549        S B 1031          352     A m 29, 6 2           138         S B 255         355     S 12.3 ( a s
 1057        A B 1391          258     Am 13,14*                                                 ad by
1957                                                                                             Stats.
  800        AB2295            787     Aml1M                                                     1966 (1st
 1234        AB  85            358     A m 6 . 1 , 7,                                            Ex. Sess.),
                                       8.1,12,15                                                 Ch. 1 5 5 ) *
                                       Ad 14.3,           1 9 6 4 (Second Ex. Sess.)
                                       14.4*                     2      S B 255          355     S2.1
 1280         A B 113            27    Am 8                                                      (Items
1 9 5 8 (Second Ex. Sess.)
       .1.    AB     76          52    S2.2 (Item                                                324, 3 2 6 )
                                       446.7) *                                                  S 2.2
              SB     255       355     S2.2 (Item                                                 (Items
                                       446.7)*                                                   353,354)*
   • Effective immediately.
  "Increase in maximum permissible distiict tax rate in Orange County Flood Control District between July 1,
 104
         1969 and July 1, 1970.
     Not operative unless and until County of Marin files with state certain document re indebtedness of Bolinas
        Harbor District.
384                           SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1969 CHAPTERS

                   STATUTES OTHER THAN CODES—Continued
Statute                                                      Statute
Affected           BUI        Chapter                        Affected       Bill        Chapter
Chapter            No.          No.         Effect           Chapter        No.           No.         Effect
1965                                                            963     A B 196          128       R151*
  757         SB     255        355     S2.2{                           SB 255           355       S 153* l
                                        (Items                          A B 193         1526       R 152* «
                                        333, 336,             1256      SB 1427          720       S6*
                                        338)                  1660      ACR 49          R313#      Sail
                                        S2.3                  1672      S B 429          663       Ami, 2
                                        (Items                1674      SB 255           355       S*
                                        349.1,                1711      S B 662         1006       R4
                                        349.2,
                                        352, 352.1,          1968
                                        353,357)               392      A B 1487           883     Sail
                                        S2.4                   419      A B 793            285     Am 2.2,
                                         (Items                                                    5.1, 5.2,
                                        3 6 2 , 3s86 5 ) *                                         5.3, 5.5,
 1378         AB      190       721     Am 6 5a     ,7                                             10.1
                                        S all*                                                     R 9.1, 9.2,
 1526       SB 777      1024            Sail                                                       9.3
1966 (First Ex. Sess.)                                                                             R
                                                                                                   Ad&1.4*
                                                                                                         Ad 5.6
  106       SB 531      1578            R6*                     430     SB         36          6   S 2 (Item
            A B 938     1596            R6*                                                        230.5)*
  146       SB 1279      458            R3.5                            AB         93          8   S 2 (Item
1966 (Second Ex. Sess.)                                                                            99)*
    2       SB 255       355            S2.2                            SB    278           15     S 2.2 (Item
                                        (Items                                                     324)*
                                        367, 386,                       A B 874             66     S 2 (Item
                                        389, 398,                                                  263)*
                                        399)                            AB1798             210     S 2 (Item
                                        S 2.3                                                      263)*
                                        (Items                          SB     255         355     S 2 (Items
                                        402.5, 403,                                                99, 224,
                                        404, 407,                                                  263)
                                        408, 408.5,                                                S2.2
                                        409, 410,                                                   (Items
                                        415)                                                       326, 330,
                                        S2.4                                                       331, 345,
                                         (Items                                                    349, 355,
                                        418, 420,                                                   358, 359)
                                        423,424)*                                                  S2.5 (Item
               A B 332           648    S 2 . 2 (Item                                               378.9) *
                                        381.5)                          A B 466            650      S 2 (Item
 1967                                                                                               127)*
                                                                543     A B 196            128     R2*
    80         AB 104            123     Rl*                    645     A B 104            123     R3*
   212         AB 1213           628     Am 5, 6*               704     A B 104            123     Ami*
   500         SB 255            355     S2.5                   771     SB 1365           1509     Am21M2 7S
                                         (Items -               780     A B 1223          1346      Sail
                                         343.5,                 916     A B 104            123     R 2 *1 6 4
                                         343.6)*                927     A B 193           1526      R3*
               A B 1173          385     S 2 . 3 (Item          931     SB 1128           1166     S 3.5?"
                                         332)*                  945     A B 466            650     Am 4*
               A B 2175          555     S2.1*>                 988     A B 753           1343      S6.1
                                          (Item                1250     A B 415            139      Sail*
                                         288*)                 1318     SB    41           950     Ami
               SB 1128          1166     S2.3 (Item            1333     A B 1955          1296     Am 2
                                         332)«"                         AB 1956           1400     Ad 24*
   910         A B 1142          257     Ad 13,14,             1351     A B 104            123      R6.3*
                                         15,16,17              1397     A B 174           1222     Am 2
   # Resolution chapter.
   * Effective immediately.
  38
  62
     Funds available for grant until June 30, 1970.
  63
     Operative only until June 30, 1971.
 127
     Report  to Legislature not later than fifth legislative day of 1971 Regular Session.
 164
     Applicable only to collector's deeds delivered after the effective date of the Statutes   of 1968.
 143
     Operative on and after July 1, 1970.
     Between effective date of act and February 28, 1,971, State Board of Equalization is directed to develop
 227
        rules re possessory interest.
     Certain undistributed reappropiiated amounts revert to unappiopriated balance of state construction program
        fund on June 30, 1971.
                         SECTIONS AFFECTED BY 1 9 6 9 CHAPTERS                                          385
                  STATUTES OTHER THAN CODES—Continued
Statute                                                Statute
Affected          Bill     Chapter                     Affected           Bill       Chapter
Chapter           No.        No.        Effect         Chapter            No.          No.          Effect
 1399       AB 387           138      Am 2, S17                                                72, 73, 74
 1437       AB 2129         1566      Am2»                                                     R91,92,
 1450       SB 115           952      Am 2*                                                    100,101,
1968 (First Ex. Sess.)                                                           "             102,103,
    1       AB 2344           86      Am 32*                                                   104,105,
            A B 193         1526      Am 30 4                                                  106,107,
                                      R31*"                                                    108,109,
1969                                                                                           110, 111,
   24        SCR 123        R267#     Sail                                                     112, 235,
   52        AB2347          725      Am 17*                                                   26b, 261,
   93        SB 215          960      SI                                                       238.
                                                                                               6~\ O O 2.59,
                                                                                                        O O f\
  209        SB 1055         230      Am 201,                                                  247, 248,
                                      222, 242                                                 257, 258,
                                      (bvSec.6                                                 318
                                      of Ch.)                                                  R & A d 90
                                      252 (by                                                  R&Ad
                                      Sec. 8 of                                                 (RN)
                                      Ch.)                                                     83,230
                                      Ad 233,                                                  Ad 13, 76,
                                      234                                                      290, 291,
             AB 1694          441     Am 80,                                                   292, 293,
                                      124,125,                                                 294, 455
                                      151,152,                                                 Ad ( R N )
                                      154, 224,                                                75,
                                      242 (by                                                  P t . 5,
                                      Sec. 36.5 of                                             Ch. 6
                                      Ch.),243,                                                 (heading)
                                      246, 250,           355        SB 909            660     Ad 32.7*
                                      252 (by                        A B -606          784     S2.1
                                      See. 42.5 of                                              (Items
                                      Ch.),256,                                                321,
                                      261, 263,                                                321.5) * »•
                                                                                               124
                                      264, 285,
                                      288, 295,                                                S2.4 (Item
                                      300,305,                                                 417)* 10
                                      306, 307,                      AB     412        800     Am 32.9*
                                      308, 309,                      SB      52        951     S2.1 (Item
                                      310, 311,                                                345)
                                      315,316,                       SB     395        975     S 2 (Item
                                      317, 319,                                                161)
                                      322, 331,                      SB     660       1005     S 2 (Item
                                      332, 333,                                                161)
                                      335, 336,                      AB     666       1241     S 2 (Item
                                      337, 338,                                                161)
                                      339, 340,                      AB     712       1244     S 2.5 ( I t e m
                                      377,450                                                  421)*
                                      Am&RN                          S B 1072         1336     S 2 (Item
                                      84, 231,                                                 116.5)
                                      P t . 5,                       A B 1719         1456     S2.1 (Item
                                      Ch. 5                                                    349)*
                                      (heading)                      SB     481       1479
                                      Am & RN,                                                 S 2 (Item
                                      Ad 56                           S B 1387                 297)*
                                      Am & RN,                                        1510
                                                                                               S 2 (Item
                                      Ad ( R N )                     AB     823                160)
                                                                                      1538
                                      57, 58, 59,                                              S 2 (Item
                                      60, 61, 62,         482        AB     412         800    84)
                                      63,64, 65,                                               R
                                                                                               Am3 3 .30
                                                                                                       5,
                                      66, 67, 68,                                              3729
                                      69, 70, 71,        1608        AB      530      1609     kxn.ZI™
   # Resolution chapter.
   * Effective immediately.
  17
  18
     See Sec. 311.5 of Ch. re conflicting provisions,
  26
     Opeiative for entire 1969-1970 fiscal year,
     Operative on January 1, 1970.
 M4
     Provisions of Section 17303.5, as amended by Section 3.5 of act, shall supersede and control over pro-
 w
         visions of subdivision (b) of Item 321 of Budget Act of 1969 (Statutes 1969, Chapter 355).
 185
      Operative on and after July 1, 1970.
     Appropiiation not available for expenditure until ceitificaOon by Superintendent of Public Instruction to
        State Controller.
      13—L-2180
      INDEX
1969 REGULAR SESSION
                    INDEX TO SUMMARY DIGEST
                                1969 Regular Session

                                          A
ABALONE, 689
ABANDONMENT
  animals, 1138
  firearms, 789
  motor vehicles, 1116
  streets, 665
  vessels, undocumented, 764
A B A T E M E N T . See MOSQUITO A B A T E M E N T D I S T R I C T S ,
ACCIDENTS
  aircraft, 1267
  automobile accident study commission : appropriation, 720
  automobiles. See subheading, motor vehicles, below,
  campers: study, 314
  motor vehicles—
     arrests without warrant. 956
     financial responsibility law, 486
     flares, 167
     insurance premium increase, 1517
     property damage : security deposit, 486
     reports, 19
     violation notices, 1056
  National Guard aircraft, 1267
ACCOUNTS, ACCOUNTANTS, AND A C C O U N T I N G
  audits—
     bridge and highway districts, 366
     business tangible personal property, 658
     educational television cost effectiveness, 368
     Medi-Cal providers' cost reports, 1274
     public agencies' special aviation funds, 1604
     state college auxiliary organizations, 1288
     state college internal audits, 1406
  bridge and highway districts, 366
  check sellers and cashers, 223
  collection agency conservators, 930
  conservators' final accounting, etc., 293
  contractors' financial statements, 735
  corporate stock, 481
  credit unions, 222
  employment, department of: examination, 1250
  escrow agents, 224
  industrial loan companies, 225
  municipal water districts, 708
  public accountants, certified, 686
  regional park districts, 456
  retirement systems, 314
  Santa Clara County transit district, 180
  school district budgeting and accounting advisory commission, 637
  state agencies: program cost accounting system, 1325
  state college auxiliary organizations, 1288
ACTIONS AND P R O C E E D I N G S
  adoption. See A D O P T I O N ,
  animal food violations, 815
  antitrust violations. 1234
  bonds, undertakings or deposits, certain : liability, 141
  cemetery authority's mishandling, etc., of endowment care funds, 983
  charitable trusts, 490
  civil arrests i hearings re validity. 690
  collection agency insolvency determination, 930
  college or university campus disorders: hearings, 1427
  commodity advisers, 1305
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.

                                        (889)
390                                    INDEX

 A C T I O N S AND PROCEEDINGS—Continued
    contracts: specific performance, 156
    contracts: swimming pool construction, 583
    county surveys: contest, 1121
    decedents' estates, actions against. See E S T A T E S O F D E C E D E N T S ,
    dismissal, 186, 958, 1610
    economic poison violations, 1169
    estate leases exceeding 10 years : hearings, 596
    family law act, 1608                     \
    forcible entry actions, 903
    guardianship proceedings, 293
    healing arts practitioners, 989
    highway permit carriers, 192
    indemnification re crime prevention, etc., 1111
    injunctions. See I N J U N C T I O N S .
   insolvent insurers, 1347
"" judgments. See J U D G M E N T S .
   limitations—
       grand theft, 1171
       highway permit carriers' charges : collection, 192
       liability claims : notices, 1261
       uninsured motorists' claims, 668
    malpractice actions, 608
    Medi-Cal benefits recovery, 1420
    Medi-Cal providers, 994, 1419
    meetings, open and public : violations, 494
    minor's freedom from parental control. 489
    Mojave water agency benefit zones establishment: hearings, 34
    offshore oil and gas development operation leases: hearings, 179
   personal injury, 959
   pet food violations, 815, 1241
   probate proceedings. See E S T A T E S O F D E C E D E N T S .
   public assistance appeals and review, 1255
   public utility corporations, 709
   radioactive decontamination, 666
   real estate violations, 729
   recreation, etc., land acquisition: state highways: declaratory relief, 357
   retail installment contract actions, 186
    Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   school district budget violations, 636
   small claims court actions. See COURTS—small claims courts.
   state land leases and surveys: hearings, 1238
   street improvement bond lien foreclosure, 1221
   subrogation: Medi-Cal recipients' personal injuries, 1420
   subrogation: school district's reimbursement of personal property damage or loss,
               846
   swimming pool construction contracts, 583
   testamentary trusts, 272
   transit district charter r a t e s : hearings, 1448
   Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
   undertakings. See U N D E R T A K I N G S .
   uninsured motorist actions, 579, 668
   unlawful detainer, 903
   venue. See V E N U E .
   vessel owners : surety bonds, 758
   water quality protection, 482
   water resources control board, state, 482
   will contests, 124
   workmen's compensation, 918
   wrongful death, 959
A D M I N I S T R A T I V E M A N A G E M E N T W E E K , 49
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
   equalization boards, county: challenge of member, 1399
   hearing officers: administering of oaths, 191
   school certificated employees, probationary : nonreemployment hearings, 1315
ADOPTION
   birth certificates, 485
   gift and inheritance taxes, 1200
   hard to place children, 261
   minors: concealment, 1251
   physically handicapped children : eligibility for state services, 330
A D U L T A U T H O R I T Y : juvenile incorrigibles: powers and duties, 924
                                              INDEX                                               391

ADVERTISING
  beer manufacturers, 508
  healing arts practitioners: free commodity or service, 1158
  home improvement business, 1583
  innovative schools employment opportunities, 1493
  International W a n t Ad Week, 106
   milk sales promotion, 217
   obscene matter, 249
   outdoor advertising, 1294
   pet food," 1241
   prophylactics, 1435
   public works contracts, state, 1036
   real estate syndicate securities, 928
   securities, 626, 928
  wrestling, 325
A E R O N A U T I C S BOARD, STATE, 712, 1604
AERONAUTICS, DEPARTMENT OF
  air transportation study, 1450
  aircraft rescue transmitters: duties, 1460
  airport assistance grants, certain: repeal, 682
  airport revolving fund allocations: recommendations, 1604
  airports: powers and duties, 712, 1585
A E R O N A U T I C S , D I V I S I O N O F . See A E R O N A U T I C S , D E P A R T M E N T O F .
A E R O S P A C E W E E K , 250
AFFIDAVITS
  attachment w r i t s : retail installment sales, 669
  default or default judgment application : mailing to defendant, 567
  initiative and referendum petition notice of intent, 774
  motor vehicle conditional sales contract action : venue, 724
  retail installment contract action ; venue, 186
  retail installment sales: writs of attachment, 669
  senior citizens property tax assistance, 51
  vessel classification, 670, 1526
  veteran's property tax exemption, 143
  voters' registration. See ELECTIONS—registration.
AGE
  driver training classes, 1103, 1104
  drivers' licenses, 382, 947
  identification cards, 1340
  junior driving permits, 947
  prekindergarten summer programs, 1311
  preschool educational programs, 1282               s
   special education programs, 1215
   student drivers' licenses, 382
   teachers: employment status, 795
AGED PERSONS
   boarding homes and institutions: property tax exemptions, 266
   geriatric commitments: screening, 292
   health care services, 21
   homesteads, 1099
  property tax assistance, 51, 790, 266
   Senior Citizens' Month, 162
  veterans' home of California, 1142
A G R I C U L T U R A L ASSOCIATION, D I S T R I C T
   sixth district—
      museum of science and industry: transfer of functions, 138, 1161
      recreational center vacation order: reconsideration, 388
A G R I C U L T U R A L CODE
   codification to maintain codes, 41
   technical amendment, 76
AGRICULTURE
   agricultural l a n d : settlers' grants, 854
   agricultural preserves, 713, 1372, 1473
   agricultural workers. See LABOR—agricultural workers.
   California marketing act. See subheading, marketing, below.
   commercial production : regulation, 1414
   commissioners, county—
      agricultural pest control agent: regulation, etc., 1414
      injurious materials report, etc., 1169
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
392                                     INDEX

AGRICULTURE—Continued
    commodity: definition, 217
    county vehicles: warning lights, 218
    department—
        agriculture and services agency, inclusion in, 138
        animal food evaluation, etc., 815
    director—
        agricultural pest control agents: regulation, etc., 1414
        c a t t l e : duties, 711, 730    I
        cream, fluid: prices, 1350
        economic poisons : regulation, 1169
        environmentally harmful materials : duties, 1169
       fair packaging and labeling a c t : duties, 1309
       horsemeat regulation, 815
        imitation milk law administration costs: payment, 139
        injurious materials: regulation, 1169
       lettuce standards, etc., 633
       livestock diagnostic services: fees, 662
       livestock identification advisory board: duties, 730
       milk and milk products standards, 537
       milk, fluid: prices, 1350, 1355
       milk marketing orders, 217
       pesticide dealers: regulation, etc., 1414
       pet food regulation, 815
       pomegranates, transportation of, 672
       poultry and poultry products : regulation, 1403
       poultry diagnostic services: fees, 662
       produce dealers and commission merchants: powers and duties, 1105, 1326
       veterinary laboratory services: fees, 662
    economic climate of California, 90
    farms and farmers, 1135, 1228, 1489
    food crop : definition, 349
    fruits, nuts, and vegetables. See F R U I T S , N U T S , AND V E G E T A B L E S ,
    hay, 164
    implements of husbandry, 28, 472, 632, 697, 808, 949, 1214
    injurious materials : regulation, 1169
    inspection. See I N S P E C T I O N ,
    land conservation act of 1965. See L A N D C O N S E R V A T I O N ACT O F 1965,
                     CALIFORNIA.
    livestock. See LIVESTOCK,
   marketing, 217, 702
    milk and milk products. See M I L K AND M I L K P R O D U C T S ,
    open space lands. See L A N D C O N S E R V A T I O N ACT O F 1965; O P E N
                     S P A C E LANDS,
   pests. See P E S T S ; P E S T I C I D E S ,
    produce dealers and commission merchants, 1105, 1326
   retailers, 702
A G R I C U L T U R E AND S E R V I C E S A G E N C Y : establishment, etc., 138
AIR POLLUTION
   aircraft, 530
   Bay Area air pollution control district, 303
   control boards: hearing board members, 920
   motor vehicles—
       control devices, 9, 11, 622, 650, 847, 848, 1064, 1253
       emission standards, 847, 1253, 1298, 50
       limited production vehicle, 1196
       testing, 1253, 1298
       used vehicles: emission standards, 847
   pure air act of 1968, California: implementation, 50
   regional control districts, 778
   vehicle emission standards, California: implementation, 50
A I R R E S O U R C E S BOARD
   air pollution control: assembly line emission tests, 1253, 1298
   motor vehicle pollution control devices—
       accreditation, etc., 847, 848
       exhaust control device testing program, 650
      used vehicles, 848
   motor vehicle pollutant emissions : testing, etc., 1253, 1298
   resources agency, inclusion in, 138
   used vehicles : control device accreditation, 848
   used vehicles: exhaust emission standards, 847
                                        INDEX                                       393

A I R C R A F T AND A V I A T I O N
   aeronautics, department of: inclusion in business and transportation agency, 138
   aeronautics, division of: name change to department of aeronautics, 138
   Aerospace Week, 250
   air carriers: passenger, 162, 404
   air carriers : rescue transmitters: exemption, 1460
   air taxis, 732
   air travel insurance, 938
   aircraft—
      air pollution, 530
      airport use statement, 671
      cropdusters, 530, 561
      jet aircraft: supersonic boom damage, 194
      jet fuel tax, 1587
      sales and use tax exemption: sales to relatives, 676
   airports. See A I R P O R T S ,
   damage, willful, 286
   Discover Flying Month, 229
   downed aircraft search and location act, 1460
   international operations: income tax exemptions, 1191
   National Guard aircraft: accident investigations, 1267
   navigational facilities, Owens Valley, 6
   obstructions: regulation, 398
   passenger air carriers, 162, 404
   passenger air service between Hollywood-Burbank and Sacramento, 2^9
   supersonic boom damage by jet aircraft, 194
   taxation, 732
   West Coast air corridor study program, 1450 •
AIRPORTS
   airport assistance revolving fund aid, 1604
   airport relocation and development, 942, 1228
   assistance grants, certain: repeal, 682
   classes at, 35
   Los Angeles international airport: relocation and development, 942
   noise standards, 1585
   parking : vehicles or animals, 77
   permits or site approvals, 712
   University of California: airport assistance revolving fund aid, 1603
   use statement, 671
ALAMEDA, CITY O F : charter amendments, 1
ALAMEDA COUNTY
   grand jtiry, 190
   superior court judges, 1486
   superior court officers and attaches, 1184
ALAMITOS, CITY O F : Governor Jose Figueroa commemoration: commendation,
               243
ALASKA, S T A T E O F : Pacific marine fisheries compact participation, 361
ALBANY, CITY O F : charter amendments, 37
ALBANY U N I F I E D SCHOOL D I S T R I C T , 297
ALCOHOLIC B E V E R A G E S
   beer—
      manufacturers: advertising, 508
      manufacturers: retailers' delinquent accounts, etc., 549
   blood alcohol tests, 1421
   brandy, 610, 1277
   corporate licensees : credit, 654
   department of alcoholic beverage control—
       additional on-sale licenses: certain areas, 1078
       conditional licenses, 502
       daily on-sale general licenses, 1123
       disaster a r e a s : license extension, 94
      license transfer applications : intended acceptance, 1466
    distilled spirits: instruction courses, 1155
   excise tax, 368
   instruction courses: distilled spirits, 1155
   licenses—
       conditional, 502
       fees, 1123, 1467
       off-sale, 759, 1123, 1277, 1467
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in Italics.
394                                      INDEX

A L C O H O L I C BEVERAGES—Continued
   licenses—continued
      on-sale—
        - counties under 7,000, 1078
          daily on-sale general, temporary, 1123
          disaster areas : extension, 94
          intermittent dockside vessel public eating place, 1466
          political parties, charitable organizations, etc., 1123
          transfers, 1466
      premises, 759, 1152
      retail package off-sale license fees, 1467
      transfers—
          claims, 1083
          consideration, 524, 654
          corporations, certain, 654
          intercounty, 1466
          restrictions, 1152
          retail licenses, 654
          wage claims, 524
          winegrower's, 1277
   premises—
      Claremont Colleges, distance from, 40&
      licenses, 759, 1152
      Whittier College, distance from, 410
   retailers, 549
   sales—
      public institutions, premises near, 1152
      temporary daily on-sale licenses, 1123
      veteran's homes of California, vicinity of, 529
      voting hours, sale during, 614
   taxation—
      brandy, 610
      transactions and use t a x : transit districts, 180
      wine and wine products: property taxation, 610
   wine, 381, 610, 1277
   Youth Temperance Education Week, 54
ALCOHOLISM, 290, 722, 961,1107, 1472
ALHAMBRA, CITY OP : charter amendments, 246
A L H A M B R A C R E E K , 74
ALIENS
   employment: public agencies, 473
   illegal e n t r a n t s : education allowances, 884
   immigration law, 327
  insurance certificates of authority, 464
   minor noncitizens without immigration s t a t u s : education, 1270
  state college students: tuition, 1492, 1605
A L L E N S W O R T H T O W N S I T E , 310
ALLOCATION BOARD, S T A T E : flood relief allocations, 52, 725
A L P I N E COUNTY
   district attorney : salary, 1410
  Washoe Indian land, 270
A M B U L A N C E S , 9, 680
A M E R I C A N L E G I O N 50th A N N I V E R S A R Y MONTH, 94
A M E R I C A N MUSIC MONTH, 41, 52
A M E R I C A N P H Y S I C A L T H E R A P Y W E E K , 174
A M M U N I T I O N : blank cartridges, 756
ANATOMICAL G I F T S , 268
A N D E R S , L I E U T E N A N T COLONEL W I L L I A M A., 60
ANIMALS
  abandonment, 1138
  control officers: firearms, 1164
  dogs. See DOGS.
  National Be Kind To Animals Week, 149
  parking, etc.: airports, 77
  pleasure riding tax, 1572
  pure pet food act of 1969, 1241
  wild animals : importation, 975
  zookeepers: firearms, 1164
A N N U I T I E S . See I N S U R A N C E .
A N N U L M E N T S : family law act, 1608
A N T E L O P E , 383
A N T I L I T T E R MONTH, 101
                                        INDEX                                       395

APARTMENTS
  Apartment Living Week, 206
  cooperatives or community projects, 121
A P O L L O 8 M I S S I O N , 12, 62
APPEALS
  factory built housing rules and regulations, 1422
  insurance guarantee association decisions, etc., 1347
  hospital and related health facility construction application, 1451
   mosquito abatement district board decisions, 288
  public social services, 1255
  special defenses: review, 201
  trustees, testamentary trusts, 272
  vocational rehabilitation appeals board, 1565
  workmen's compensation, 918
A P P L E S , 448
APPRENTICES
  council, apprenticeship, 460
  discrimination, 609
  embalmers, 284
  per diem wages: public works, 1502
  public works contractors, 1260
  training instruction, 1360
A P P R E N T I C E S H I P MONTH, 191
APPROPRIATIONS
  aid to families with dependent children, 951
  air pollution control, 1298
  air transportation study, 1450
  aircraft jet fuel tax refunds, 1587
  airport noise regulations and enforcement, 1585
  alcoholism treatment and control, 290, 1107
  automobile accident study commission, 720
  boating safety and enforcement programs, 1354
  bovine tuberculosis or brucellosis reactors: indemnification for slaughter, 1525
  budget act of 1989, 355
  California bicentennial celebration commission, 628
  •California Tahoe regional planning agency, 1343
  cancer research and treatment, 1005
  Capitola state park groin construction, 1459
  compensatory education programs, 784, 1578, 1596
  contingent funds of senate and assembly. See LEGISLATURE—appropriations.
  county superintendent of schools, office of: review and study, 784
  Crescent City redevelopment of disaster area : loan, 1358
  Delano community water supply: study, 1510
  driver training experimental program, 1454
  drug abuse research, etc., program evaluation, 1618
   educational commission of the states, 1538
   educational improvement act of 1969, 784
  educational opportunity programs, state college, 1336
  educationally handicapped minors' teachers specialized preparation: loan, 1198
  emergency flood relief, 52
  emergency fund: augmentation, 66, 210
   employment agency fee refunds, 755
   Enterprise city school district, 523
   environmental quality study council, 963
   examination of department of employment books, 1250
   fourth appellate district: support, 1487
  harmful drugs and hallucinogenic substances: study, 1566
   Hastings College of Law alterations, 15
   health care deposit fund refunds, 814
   health facility construction loan insurance law, California, 970
  highway user fund expenditures by local agencies: review, 1498
   homemaker services, 660
   Indian health services, 1880             * .
   intergovernmental welfare management and information systems act, 1418
   junior college construction, 1166
   juvenile delinquency and crime prevention, 1415
  Lake Tahoe beaches, 1222
   legislature. See L E G I S L A T U R E .
   Livermore Valley unified school district, 229
   master teacher selection pilot program, 1617
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics-
396                                    INDEX

APPROPRIATIONS—Continued
  mentally retarded aid recipients' private institutional care, 1416
  mentally retarded persons, regional centers for, 1476
  motor vehicle exhaust air pollution control device testing program, 650
  new careers in education program, 1453
  North Lake Tahoe public utility district loan, 1356
  Oroville reservoir state recreation area, boat launching facilities, etc., 555
  overtime: state employees, 32
  Owens Valley air navigational facilities, 6
  pesticide dealers' licensing program, 1414
  pet food and horsemeat regulation, 815
  polytechnic college, California s t a t e : land purchase, 657
  property insurance assigned risk program, 649
  psychiatric technicians' salaries, 1479
  pure pet food act, 1241
  reading and mathematics intensive instruction programs, 1578, 1596
  resources protection: state highway projects, 1052
  revenues derived from certain fees, etc.: availability for expenditure, 711, 743
  riot or civil disorder property loss : federal reinsurance reimbursement, 649
  Bales tax study, 1532
   Salton Sea preservation, 883
  San Mateo junior college district, 385
   Santa Barbara County tidelands cleanup, 648
  scholarships for deceased peace officers' dependents, 1616
  school appropriation bills, 325
  school meals, free or reduced price, 1577
   small craft launching facilities, 555
  special teacher employment programs : compensatory education, 1596
  state colleges, 8, 1288, 1336
   status of women, advisory commission on the, 721
   summer vocational and technical education programs, 1495
  surplus funds, 1330
  Tahoe regional planning agency, 1343
  tax-exempt organization information report: franchise tax board, 1320
   television classes for adults: pilot program, 1446
   University of California health science facilities construction program bond act of
                1969, 1544
  water quality and water pollution control, 482
  water resources board, s t a t e : support, 800                ,
  wild animals and birds, importation, 975
  youth sendee bureaus, 1193
A R B I T R A T I O N , 579, 1462
ARCADIA, CITY O F : new charter, 6
ARCHEOLOGY, 628
A R C H E R Y W E E K , Ub
A R C H I T E C T S : temporary school employment, 1308
A R M O R E D CARS, 9
A R N O L D - B E E - K E N N I C K ACT, 335, 1415
ARRESTS
  civil arrests, 690
  counsel, right to, 690
  debtors, 134
  infractions : time restrictions, 528
  minors: age misrepresentation, 1008
  motor vehicle load violations, 517
  narcotic addicts, 238
  notices to appear, 1259
  ordinance or statute violations, 1205
  peace officers' authority, 956
  persons otherwise in custody, 478
  public officers and employees, arrests by, 1205
  reasonable cause: informants' communications, 1412
  without warrant and release without charge: procedure, 1117
ARSON, 846
A R T I F I C I A L I N S E M I N A T I O N , 1615
ASPARAGUS, 596
ASSESSMENTS
  assessment districts, 874
  banks, 877
  city annexations, 148
  county service areas, 30
                                       INDEX                                        397

   Delta water agency, 285
   highway lighting districts, 171
  irrigation districts, 63, 1346
  Kern Delta water district, 1085
  Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
  maintenance districts, 415
  Mojave water agency, 34
   municipal improvement act of 1913, 440
  property taxation. See P R O P E R T Y T A X A T I O N .
  publicly owned property, 513, 770
  Riverside County flood control and water conservation district, 198
   San Joaquin River flood control, 292
   sanitation districts, county, 30
   sidewalk and curb construction, certain, 276
   state property, 1219
  street improvement, 874
  street lighting, 766
  trust companies, 877
  Tulare County flood control district, 1149
  Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
  utility lines, overhead, removal costs, 492
  Ventura County flood control district, 196, 407
  water storage districts; California 1086
   Yolo-Zamora water district, 241
A S S E S S O R S , COUNTY
  agricultural land within school districts : duties, 1473
   airport use statement, 671
   appeals: valuation evidence : information and procedure, 1306
   blind and disabled veterans, certain: exemption procedure, 1332
   disaster relief, 129, 747
   homeowners' exemptions : duties, 86, 943
   oil and gas operators' reports: access, 553
   open space lands : assessment, 565
   profession, trade or business property, certain : audit, 658, 1126
   record inspection and market data disclosure, 1399
   tax statements, duplicate, 875
ASSIGNMENTS
   group life insurance, 644
   insurance return premiums, 320
   public construction contracts, certain, 871
   vehicle liens, possessory, 125
   vessel registration agents, 578
   wage claims, 1529
ASSOCIATIONS
   insurance guarantee associations, California, 1347
   nonprofit associations. See N O N P R O F I T AND C O O P E R A T I V E ASSOCIA-
               TIONS.
   unincorporated : insurance production agency licenses, 220
A S T R O N A U T S : congratulations and commendations, 59, 60, 61
A S T R O N A U T S ' DAY, 12
ATASCADERO S T A T E H O S P I T A L , 459
A T H E R T O N C H A N N E L D R A I N A G E D I S T R I C T , 1301
A T H L E T I C S : wrestling, 325
ATOMIC E N E R G Y D E V E L O P M E N T AND R A D I A T I O N , O F F I C E O F : name
               change to office of nuclear energy, 138
ATTACHMENT, EXECUTION, GARNISHMENT, ETC.
   attachment—
      retail installment sales, 669
      sheriff's service fees, 514
   debtors, defendant or judgment, 134, 154
    districts' obligation to judgment debtors, 154
    execution—
      child support payments, 1202
      real estate : notice, 149
      sheriff's service fees, 514
   exemptions : public employees' vacation credits, 546
    garnishment: employment termination, 1529
    Medi-Cal accounts payable, 807
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
398                                     INDEX

ATTORNEY GENERAL
   bank and corporation tax returns and reports: inspection, etc., 603
   cemetery authorities endowment care funds : duties, 983
   detention certificates : duties, 1117
   genocide telephone campaigns : investigation, etc., 342
   homicide report forms, 1089
   income tax r e t u r n s : use and restrictions, 980
   inquest request, 1220
   leaves of absence, 277
   Medi-Cal benefits recovery actions, 1420
   organized crime investigation, 1357
   personnel, certain : concealed firearms, 1012
   radioactive decontamination actions, 666
   restraint of trade actions, 1234
   salary, 1600
ATTORNEYS
   accident reports, motor vehicle: access, 19
   armed forces legal officers, 200
   fees, 489, 583, 669, 1607, 1608
   indigents' legal counsel, 690, 1514
   junior college services, 1203
   minors' freedom from parental control actions, 489
   probation reports: receipt prior to judgment, 522
   unsolicited merchandise actions, 400
AUCTIONS, 125, 462, 1024, 1086
A U D I O M E T R I S T S , 836
AUDITOR GENERAL
   children's center program financing and cost analysis, etc., 34"t
   educational television cost effectiveness audit, 368
   Medi-Cal payments : pharmacists, 396
A U D I T O R S , COUNTY
  consolidation of office, 638
  disaster areas, 1968-69, property tax relief: duties, 129
  education, county boards of, tax levy: transfer, 744
   Madera County flood control and water conservation agency funds: duties, 916
  property taxation duties, 130, 671, 744
  salaries. See S A L A R I E S , W A G E S , ETC.—county officers, followed by name
               of particular county,
  sheriffs' bank accounts, certain : duties, 279
  water storage districts, California : duties, 1086
A U D I T S . See ACCOUNTS, ACCOUNTANTS AND ACCOUNTING—audits.
A U T O P S I E S , 1132
AVOCADOES, 577
AWARDS
  astronauts: Apollo 8 mission, 12
  merit awards, 305
                                          B
BAGGAGE : loss or damage, 982
B A I L , 9, 279, 1194, 1259, 1334
BAILEY, F L O Y D P., 36
B A K E R S F I E L D , CITY O F
   centennial, 88
   charter amendments, 27
BANDS, 1266
BANK AND CORPORATION TAX
   aircraft or ship international operation income, 1191
  antidisclosure provisions, 603
  attorney general's inspection, etc., of returns, 603
  credits, 911
  exemptions—
     airport relocation and development dislocation allowances, 1228
     hospital services cooperatives, 1478
     qualifications, 1320
  late filing : penalty period, 603
  liens: personal property, 915
  mergers, consolidations, etc., 1606
  prepayment, 1526
  railroad corporations, 889
  refunds, 603, 911
  religious organizations: unrelated business income, 1508
  savings and loan associations: tax offsets, 1461
  underpayment: penalty, 760
                                         INDEX                                       399

BANKRUPTCY
    judgment discharge, 902
    notaries public, 78
    trustees! small claims actions, 491
    vessel registration agents, 578
B A N K S AND B A N K I N G
    assessments, 877
    branch offices, 843
    capital notes and debentures, 946
    checking accounts—
        purchasing agents, county, 505
        school district supplies revolving account, 921
   commercial: investments, 493
    deposits: savings, 493
   examinations, 327
    foreign banking corporations, 1281
   foreign branch offices, 843
   housing securities and stock, certain: issuance, sale, investment, 495
   investments by banks, 150, 493, 892, 895
   loans—
        bank officers, directors, and employees, 531
        limits, 946
        real estate, 493
   local agency funds depositories, 1483
   places of business, 1280
   reserves, 890
   savings banks, 150, 493
   securities, 876
   state banking department: inclusion in business and transportation agency, 138
   stock holdings, 892, 895
   superintendent of banks—
       assessments, 877
       branch offices: powers and duties, 843
       examination : banks, trust companies, etc., 327
       housing securities and stock, certain : sale, etc.: duties, 493
       local agency security administrator, 1483
       places of business: powers, etc., 1280
       reserves: regulation, 890
       security sales: regulation, 876
       stock holdings: approval, 895
   tax offsets, 1461
   warehouseman liens, 843
B A R B E R S , 1619
B A R E I L L E S , M E L V I N J., 28
B.A.R.T. See SAN F R A N C I S C O BAY A R E A R A P I D T R A N S I T D I S T R I C T .
BAY AREA A I R P O L L U T I O N C O N T R O L D I S T R I C T , 303
B E A C H S A F E T Y W E E K , 155
BEACHES
   county : supervisors' duties, 929
   Lake Tahoe public beaches: investigations, etc., 1222
   Santa Barbara County: cleanup, 648
   state : land exchange, etc., 1276
   s t a t e : Twin Lakes state beach, 1129
   Sunset Cliffs beach erosion control project, 102
B E A U T Y SALON W E E K , 82
B E E I N D U S T R Y W E E K , C A L I F O R N I A , 116
B E E K , J O S E P H ALLAN, 7
B E N E V O L E N T AND P R O T E C T I V E O R D E R O F E L K S , L O D G E NO. 6, Id
B E R G E N , W. B., 62
B E R K E L E Y . CITY O F : charter amendments, 163
B E R L I N ' S V O L K F E S T , U.S. ARMY : state's best wishes, 218
B E T A SIGMA P H I W E E K , 113, 115
B I C Y C L E S , 674
B I D S . See CONTRACTS.
B I G H O R N M O U N T A I N S W A T E R AGENCY L A W , 1175
B I L L O F R I G H T S W E E K , 221
BIRDS
   magpies, yellow-billed, 299
   pheasants, 299
   wild birds : importation, 975
B I R T H R E C O R D S . See V I T A L S T A T I S T I C S — h i r t h certificates.
B I S C A I L U Z , E U G E N E W., 181
B I S P O , MISS F R A N C E S : American Dairy Princess, 234
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics»
400                                        INDEX

B L I N D , C A L I F O R N I A I N D U S T R I E S F O R T H E , 1107, 1369
BLIND PERSONS
   aid to the blind: blind drivers, 1445
   California industries for the blind. See B L I N D , C A L I F O R N I A I N D U S T R I E S
                  FOR THE.
   college students : study assistance, 1147
   division for the blind, 1565
   housing accommodations: access, 832
   junior college teaching, etc., credentials, 961
   opportunity work centers, 1107
   Recording for the Blind, I n c . : congratulations and commendations, 83
   rehabilitation, 1107
   school for the blind, California: attendance expense, 1331
   school for the blind, California: substitute teachers, 1382
   vending stands, 1370
   veteran : property tax exemption, 1332
BLOOD
   alcohol content tests, 1421, 1438
   gas analysis: authorized persons, 108
   prenatal blood tests : Rh factor, 1563
   t e s t s : drunk driving, 231
   withdrawal: vocational nurses, 112
B O A R D O F CONTROL, S T A T E . See CONTROL, S T A T E BOARD O F ,
B O A R D I N G H O M E S AND I N S T I T U T I O N S
   aged persons. See AGED P E R S O N S .
   sprinkler systems, 661
B O A R D I N G H O U S E S , 826
BOATS, S H I P S , E T C .
   abandonment: disposition, 764
   boat livery, 145
   commercial fishing boats, 1576
   Congressional Cup Week, California, 39
   documented vessels: property tax affidavits, 670, 1526
   fishing boats, commercial, 1576
   for-hire vessels, 823
   houseboats : waste discharge, 482
   intermittent dockside vessel public eating place, 1466
   international operations : income tax exemptions, 1191
   motor club services, 858
   number and ownership certificates, 1354
   public utility property damage, 709
   registration, 578, 758, 818, 824, 1576
   rentals, 145
   Safe Boating Week, 236
   safety and enforcement programs, 1354
   safety, industrial, provisions, 252
   sales to relatives: sales and use tax exemptions, 676
   state parks, violations in, 435
   transfers, 758
   undocumented vessels: life preservers: water skiers, 146
   undocumented vessels: sale or transfer, 406, 676
  United States vessels: registration, 818
  water pollution, 79
  yacht and ship brokers, 1249
BOMBS : murder by, 923
B O N D S . See also name of particular district.
  Antelope Valley-East Kern water agency, 449
  assessment bonds, 770
  Bighorn Mountains water agency, 1175
  carriers, generally, 173, 823
  Central Valley Project, 14
  collection agencies, 930
  community services districts, 538
  conservators, 67
  contractor's performance: waiver, 101
  counties, 739, 1025
  Crestline-Lake Arrowhead water agency, 109
  dance studios, 611, 1571
  driving school operators, 346
  dump truck carriers, 1004
  elections. See ELECTIONS—bond elections.
  Estero municipal improvement district, 236
  farm labor contractors, 1094
                                      INDEX                                     401
  Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 769
  highway carriers, 1004
  hospital districts, 600
  improvement act of 1911, 202
  improvement bonds, 771
  interest. See I N T E R E S T .
  interstate highway carriers, 1279
  joint powers agreement revenue bonds, 600, 1303
  junior college revenue bonds, 194
  Kern Delta water district, 1085
  local agencies, 194, 600, 272
  Los Angeles County flood control district, 450
  Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
  metropolitan water districts, 230
  motor clubs, 858
 Mountain View shoreline regional park community, 1109
 municipal sewer and water facilities bonds, 600
 municipal utility districts, 600
 municipal water districts, 600, 708
 parking authorities, 430
 parks and recreation districts, 194
  public utilities, 1345
 rapid transit districts, 635
  reclamation districts, 194
 redevelopment bonds, 600, 248
 restraining orders, temporary, or preliminary injunctions, security for, 141
 revenue bonds, 24, 194, 600, 1400
  San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district, 24
  San Francisco harbor commission, 1400
 sanitary districts, 194
  Santa Barbara County flood control and water conservation district, 258
  Santa Clara County transit district, 180
 school districts, 250, 600, 792, 921, 984, 1174
  Sonoma County water agency, 656
 state colleges, 1100
 state general obligation bonds, 740, 741, 1544, 212, 299
 Stockton port district, 280
 street improvement, 513, 1221
 Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
 University of California health science facilities construction program bond act
            of 1969, 1544
 vehicle parking districts, 487
 Ventura County sanitation district, 881
 vessel owners, 758
 veterans bond act of 1968, 1252, 326
 water storage districts, California, 1086;
 works of improvement, 1362
 yacht and ship brokers, 1249
BORMAN, COLONEL F R A N K , 59
BOUNDARIES
 agricultural preserves, 1372
 Bighorn Mountains water agency, 1175
 cities, 452, 598, 1301
  community services district zones, 538
 fish and game districts. See F I S H A N D GAME—boundaries,
 irrigation districts, 63
 local agency formation commissions' duties, 1301
  Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
  Mexican-California border: crossing restrictions re minors, 91
  Monterey and Santa Cruz Counties tideland leases and permits, 1430
  Mountain View shoreline regional park community, 1109
  Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta lands, 1447
  San Francisco Bay water-oriented priority land use, 713
  school districts: changes, 158, 598
  tideland leases and permits, 1430
  Tulare County flood control district, 1149
  Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
 United States international borders, 384
  Ventura County tidelands, 1044
 vocational areas, 1555
 wildlife habitat areas, 1473
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
402                                           INDEX

B R A N D S : cattle, 711, 730
B R A N N A N - A N D R U S L E V E E M A I N T E N A N C E D I S T R I C T , 257
B R A N T , L E R O Y V., 275
B R E A T H : blood alcohol tests, 1421
B R I D G E AND H I G H W A Y D I S T R I C T S , 366, 805, 1286, 1378, 1411
BRIDGES
   Eugene A. Doran memorial bridge, 113
   flood or storm damage: relief, 52
   gas tax revenue allocations, 725
   interstate 5 bridge: memorial plaque, 357
   John R. Trainor memorial bridge, 355
   Robert F . Fisher Bridge, 282
   San Francisco harbor, 1296
   toll bridge authority, California: San Francisco-Oakland rapid transit tube fi-
                nancing, 24
B R U C E L L O S I S , 304, 1525, 92, 252
BUDGETS
   cities, 1170
   community mental health services, 722
   county: certain expense schedules, 309
   districts, 1170
   innovative schools, 1493
   local agency formation commissions, 1301
   school districts, 636, 637
   state—
      budget act of 1969, 355
      budget bill: delayed enactment, 627
      watershed projects, 1456
   state agencies, 1325
   state colleges, 389
B U E N A V I S T A AQUATIC R E C R E A T I O N A R E A P R O J E C T , 1235
BUILDINGS
   assembly, places of, 919, 1560
   Bancroft-Whitney Building, 278
   commercial or industrial: construction, sale, etc.: inapplicability of Unruh retail
               installment sales act, 554
   construction permits, 757
   earthquake protection, 1394
   forest fire protection, 688
   gambling, 262
   gathering or amusement places, public: accessibility: physically handicapped
               persons, 1560
   Hastings College of Law, 278
   mausoleums and columbariums, 737
   public buildings—
      flood damage: repair, restoration, etc., 52
      prison-made goods : sale, 909
   radioactive decontamination, 666
   residential: use, occupancy and zoning classification reports, 894
   state capitol. See CAPITOL, S T A T E .
   state highway lands, 849
BTJRBANK, CITY O F : charter amendments, 214
B U R G L A R Y , 846, 1136, 1393
BTJRRILL, F R A N K , 65
BUSES
  charter buses. 1448
  definition, 479
  motorbuses: national safety standards, 228
   sehoolbuses. See SCHOOLS—buses.
BUSINESS
  airport relocation and development: relocation assistance, 1228
  banks. See B A N K S AND B A N K I N G .
  Chamber of Commerce Week, 47
  economic climate, California, 90
  educational objectives and manpower needs: coordination, 316
  federal tax deductions re state tax incentives, 320
  fictitious name certificates, 114
  flood or storm damage: federal assistance, 99
  F u t u r e Business Leaders of America Week, 111, 168
  inventories : taxation, 671, 1526
  property taxation: escape assessments, 1557
  records: production in court, 199
                                        INDEX                                        403

  relocation assistance, 1228, 1489
  self-employed individuals' retirement funds: state income tax treatment, 1607
  tax assessor's audit, 1126
  tax incentives, 320
B U S I N E S S AND P R O F E S S I O N S CODE
  codification to maintain code, 53
  obsolete provisions: deletion, 351, 551
  technical amendments, 216, 436
B U S I N E S S AND T R A N S P O R T A T I O N AGENCY
  establishment, etc., 138
   secretary: freeway speed limit, 91
   Southern California transportation study commission : representation, 1547
   transit district public transportation improvement fund : administration, 1567
   transportation board, state, 1404
B U T L E R , DR. F R E D O., 24
B U T T E C O U N T Y : Oroville reservoir: small craft launching facilities, etc., 555

                                           c
C A B R I L L O COLLEGE, 976
C A B R I L L O F E S T I V A L , 77
CAL POLY. See P O L Y T E C H N I C C O L L E G E , C A L I F O R N I A S T A T E .
CALAVERAS COUNTY : certain officers: salary, 1410
C A L I F O R N I A B I C E N T E N N I A L DAY, 232
C A L I F O R N I A L A W R E V I S I O N COMMISSION, 212, 224
C A L I F O R N I A L E G I S L A T U R E A I R P O R T S , A I R W A Y S AND A I R P O R T
               T E R M I N A L S D E V E L O P M E N T AND R E L O C A T I O N ACT O F 1969,
               1228
C A L I F O R N I A SCHOOL T E S T I N G A C T O F 1969, 1552
CALIFORNIA, STATE OF
   aid to local agencies—
      boating safety and enforcement programs, 1354
      cigarette tax fund allocations. 128, 933
      college campus disturbances : control costs, 1427, 806
       community narcotics and dangerous drug treatment services, 869
       emergency flood relief, 52, 725
      •health facility construction loan insurance law, California, 970
       indigents' legal counsel, 1514
       motor vehicle license fee allocations, 127
       probation services, 335, 1415
       television classes for adults, 1446
       trailer coach fee allocations, 126
       tuberculosis subsidies, 811
       water quality control, 482
       youth correctional centers, 1193
       youth probation services, 335
   bonds. See B O N D S .
   corporate stock ownership: constitutional provisions: revision, 264
    credit, lending of: constitutional provisions: revision, 264
   demographic services, 1013
    economic climate, 90
    federal highway aid work : state assent, 247
    indemnification of private citizens re crime prevention, rescues, etc., 1431
    mineral rights: state lands, 1014
    relocation assistance, 917, 955, 1228, 1489
    reorganizations and new agencies—
        blind, division for: creation in department of rehabilitation, 1565
        educational research commission, 1493
        extended opportunity programs and services, advisory committee on, 1579
        governor's reorganization plan of 1968, 138
        industry and world trade commission, California : creation, 1161
        vocational education and technical training, California advisory council on, 1555
        world trade authority, California: abolishment and transfer of functions, 1161
        world trade, division of: creation, etc., 1161
     rescue t e a m s : liability, 573
     Tuolumne County water agency: cooperation, 1236
     Ventura County tidelands: boundary changes, 1044
     vessel registration agents: claims against, 578
  C A L I F O R N I A T A H O E R E G I O N A L P L A N N I N G AGENCY, 1343
  C A L I F O R N I A W A T E R D I S T R I C T S : Kern Delta water district, 1085
  N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
404                                     INDEX

C A L I F O R N I A W A T E R QUALITY I M P R O V E M E N T ACT O F 1969, 482
C A L I F O R N I A W A T E R STORAGE D I S T R I C T S , 1086
C A L I F O R N I A W H E E L C H A I R GAMES DAYS, 169
CAMP F I R E G I R L S ' B I R T H D A Y W E E K , 96
C A M P E R S , 314
CAMPUS DISORDERS
   generally, 306, 309
   junior colleges, 1122, 1424, 1427
   schools, generally, 804, 1424
   state colleges, 1122, 1424, 1427
   University of California, 1122, 1424, 1427
CANADA-UNITED S T A T E S G O O D W I L L W E E K , im
CANCER, 1005
CANCER CONTROL MONTH, 103
CANNERY I N S P E C T I O N BOARD, 1031
C A N T A L O U P E S , 163
C A P I A S AD S A T I S F A C I E N D U M , 134
CAPITOL, STATE
    Capitol area plan, 1597
    disruptive activities, 1528
    souvenirs, 370
C A P I T O L A N A T I O N A L B E G O N I A F E S T I V A L W E E K , 178
 C A P I T O L A S T A T E P A R K : groin construction, 1459
 C A R R E L L ACT, 703
 CARRIERS
    air passenger carriers, 162, 404
    cattle carriers, 730
    charter-party carriers, 823, 1448
    city carriers, 57
    common carriers, 982
    dump truck carriers, 1004
    express corporations and freight forwarders, 802
    generally : surety bonds, 173
    gross operating revenue, 865
    highway carriers, 57, 393, 823
    highway permit carriers, 192
    household goods carriers, 432, 823
    insurance, 823
    interstate highway carriers, 1131, 1279
    permits, etc. See L I C E N S E S , C E R T I F I C A T E S , P E R M I T S , E T C .
 C A R T R I D G E S . See A M M U N I T I O N ; F I R E W O R K S .
 C A T S : abandonment, 1138
 C A T T L E . See L I V E S T O C K .
 CEMETERIES
    endowment care funds, 983
    national cemeteries: San Luis Dam, 238
    property taxation, 123
    vehicle identification plates, 1242
 C E N S U S , 1013
 C E N T R A L VALLEY W A T E R P R O J E C T : bonds: interest rate, 14
 C E R T I F I E D M A S T E R T E A C H E R L A W O F 1970, 1617
 C H A M B E R O F COMMERCE W E E K , 47
 CHARITIES
    charitable organizations—
       property taxation, 123
        school campuses : solicitation, 1223
     charitable trusts, 490
     nonprofit associations. See N O N P R O F I T AND C O O P E R A T I V E ASSOCIA-
                TIONS.
 CHARTERS
     city—
        Alameda, 1
        Albany, 37
        Alhambra, 246
        Arcadia, 6
        Bakersfield, 27
        Berkeley, 163
        Burbank, 214
        Chico, 151
        Compton, 225
        Fresno, 197
                                        INDEX                                        405

      Glendale, 108
      holidays, 1521
      Inglewood, 31
      legislative ratification, 367
      Long Beach, 3
      Los Angeles, 143, 21S
      Mountain "View, 29
      Napa, 68
      Oakland, 21
      Pacific Grove, 110
      Palo Alto, 223
      Pasadena, 188
      Petaluma, 253
      Pomona, 118
      procedure, 1264
      Richmond, 190
      Riverside, 140
      San Bernardino, 44
      San Jose, 276
      San Rafael, 208
      Santa Barbara, 11,199
      Santa Clara, 5
      Santa Cruz, 9
      Seal Beach, 2
      Visalia, 198
  city and county: San Francisco, 10
   county—
      holidays, 1521
      legislative ratification, 367
      procedure, 1264
      Sacramento, 20
      San Diego, Ik
C H E C K S E L L E R S AND C A S H E R S , 223
C H E C K S : dishonored : motor vehicle fees, etc., 214
C H E E S E , 544
CHICO, CITY O F : charter amendments, 151
C H I L D CARE
   children's centers: employees: temporary salary certificates, 389
   children's centers: financing and cost analysis, etc., 347
   school facilities: use for elementary age children, 619
C H I L D R E N W I T H L E A R N I N G D I S A B I L I T I E S W E E K , 100
C H I L D R E N ' S D E N T A L H E A L T H W E E K , 25
C H I N E S E . See F O R E I G N LANGUAGES.
C H I N E S E A M E R I C A N S : transcontinental railroad construction, 222
CHIROPRACTORS
   actions against, 608
   Correct Posture Week, 125
   pharmaceutical devices : prescriptions, 641
C H U R C H E S . See R E L I G I O N .
C I G A R E T T E T A X : allocations, 128, 933
CINCO DE MAYO, 139
C I R C L E K W E E K , 55
CITIES
   airports. See A I R P O R T S .
   annexations, 148, 780, 934, 1177, 1301
   assessing and tax functions, 671
   boundaries, 452, 598, 1301
   budgets, 1170
   building departments: public accommodations' accessibility s t a n d a r d s : enforce-
               ment, 1560
   cafe musician licenses, 969
   charters, generally, 331
   cigarette tax allocations, 128, 933
   consolidation, 228
   construction permits, 757
   contracts. See CONTRACTS,
   detachments, 1301
   easements. See E A S E M E N T S ,
   financial reports, 1170
   firearms licenses, 1188
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
406                                        INDEX

CITIES—Continued
     gas tax street improvement fund: deposits, 344
     health facil'^y construction loan insurance, 970
     incorporation, 324
     legislative bodies—
        ballot measure identification designation: approval, 160
        criminal justice, California council o n : representation, 1211
        disaster area relief, 747
        freeway construction: city street closure: hearings, 515
        highway routes and locations, s t a t e : hearings, 515
        housing authority commissioners, 321
        payment orders or resolutions, 775
        redevelopment project area committee, 955
        streets, summary vacation and abandonment of, 665
     mayors: terms of office, 504
     motor vehicle license fee allocations, 127
     ordinances—
        fire protection district, city withdrawal, 453
        holidays, 1521
        indecent exposure, 1534, 1535
        motor vehicle weight limitation, 393
        obscenity, 1534, 1535
        property tax assessment and collection functions transfer to county, 4
        property tax relief: disaster areas, 1968-69, 129
        public utility overhead lines, removal costs: assessment, 492
        residential building use, occupancy and zoning classification reports, 894
        water pollution by vessels, 79
    public projects, 594
     relocation assistance, 1228, 1489
     rights-of-way conveyance, streets or highways, 235
     school tax revenue decrease from open space lands agreement: financial assistance,
                1322
     state property assessments, 1219
     streets. See S T R E E T S ,
    taxation. See T A X A T I O N .
    T O P I C S advisory committee: representation, 1141
    trailer coach fee allocations, 126
    uninhabited territory : exclusion, 452
CITIES AND COUNTIES
    building departments: public accommodations accessibility standards: enforce-
                ment, 1560
    cafe musician licenses, 969
    firearms licenses, 1188
    health facility construction loan insurance, 970
    ordinances : indecent exposure, 1534
    relocation assistance, 1228, 1489
    search and rescue expenses: payment, 589
    streets. See S T R E E T S .
C I T Y S U P E R I N T E N D E N T S O F S C H O O L S : bilingual education demonstratioa
               program: administration, 1379
C I V I L CODE
    codification to maintain codes, 61
    technical amendment, 59
C I V I L D E F E N S E , 901, 1000
CIVIL PROCEDURE
   arrests. See A R R E S T S .
   attachment. See A T T A C H M E N T , E X E C U T I O N , G A R N I S H M E N T , E T C .
   compromise settlements, 277, 570
   damages. See DAMAGES,
   default judgments. See J U D G M E N T S ,
   dismissal of actions, 180, 958, 1610
   evidence. See E V I D E N C E .
   execution. See A T T A C H M E N T , E X E C U T I O N , G A R N I S H M E N T , E T C .
   forcible entry, 903
   injunctions. See I N J U N C T I O N S ,
   jurisdiction: transfer, etc., 345
  new trial, motion for: inadequacy of damages, 115
  new trial, motion for: ruling deadline, 87
  restraining orders. See R E S T R A I N I N G O R D E R S , T E M P O R A R Y .
  service of process. See S E R V I C E O F P R O C E S S , N O T I C E S , E T C .
  small claims actions. See COURTS—small claims courts.
                                         INDEX                                     40,7

   special defenses: review, 201
   subpoenas. See S U B P O E N A S ,
   support. See S U P P O R T .
   trial notice: absence of adverse p a r t y : effect, 85
   unlawful detainer, 480, 903
   venue. See V E N U E .
CIVIL SERVICE
   career executives: conflicts of interest, 1512
   county: homemaker classification, 660
   retraining of certain employees, 1199
   state—
       administration, 853
       constitutional amendment, proposed, 340
       demotion, 809
       disciplinary proceedings, etc., 794
       exemptions, 340
       military leaves: extensions, 912
      probationary periods, 809
       reinstatement, 809
       veterans' credit, 986
C L A I B O R N E , P A U L , 144
CLAIMS
   against alcoholic beverage license transferor, 1083
   against bridge and highway districts, 366
   against decedents' estates, 124, 177, 431, 512, 959
   against districts: judgment debtor obligations, 154
   against Medi-Cal accounts payable, 807
   against public entities: fraudulent claims, 545
   against state—
       crime prevention, rescue, etc., indemnification of private citizens, 1431
       fraudulent claims, 545
   against vessel registration agents, 578
   insurance. See I N S U R A N C E .
CLAMS, 488
C L A R E M O N T C O L L E G E S , 405
CLARK, W I L L I A M P A T R I C K , JR., 86
C L A S S I F I E D SCHOOL E M P L O Y E E S ' W E E K , 135
C L E A N I N G , D Y E I N G & P R E S S I N G , 282, 394, 691, 1039
C L E R K S , CITY
   ballot measures, city : identification, 160
   charter or charter amendments for legislative ratification : enclosures, 367
   incorporation petitions : duties, 324
C L E R K S , COUNTY
   charter or charter amendments for legislative ratification: enclosures, 367
   dog licensing duties: transfer, 1181
   election duties—
       county ballot measures : identification, 160
       hospital district, local, directors' election, 943
       judicial candidates' declaration of intent, 1469
       legislative candidates' declaration of intent, 1469
       nomination papers : signatures, 1151
       registration in county other than residence: cancellation, 810
       semiofficial r e t u r n s : submission, 914
       state central committee chairman, newly elected: notification, 453
       voter registration supporting documents, 607
   fees, 178
 C L I N I C A L L A B O R A T O R I E S . See L A B O R A T O R I E S .
 C L I N I C S : Langley Porter neuropsychiatric institute, 722
 CLUBS : motor clubs, 858
 CODE O F C I V I L P R O C E D U R E : technical amendment, 958
 C O D I F I C A T I O N T O M A I N T A I N CODES
    agricultural code, 41
    business and professions code, 53
   civil code, 61
    corporations code, 37
    education code, 534
    financial code, 25
   fish and game code, 55
   government code, 122, 1264
 NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
408                                     INDEX

C O D I F I C A T I O N T O M A I N T A I N CODES—Continued
  health and safety code, 39
  insurance code, 105
  labor code, 213
  military and veterans code, 728
  penal code, 43
  public resources code, 54
  public utilities code, 10, 398
   revenue and taxation code, 29
   streets and highways code, 234
  unemployment insurance code, 291
  vehicle code, 26
  water code, 68
COIN DAY, C A L I F O R N I A , 126
C O L L E C T I O N A G E N C I E S , 930
C O L L E G E F O O T B A L L C E N T E N N I A L SEASON, 255
COLORADO R I V E R B O A R D , 138
COLUMBIAN S Q U I R E S W E E K , 153
COLUSA COUNTY : tax roll: use by Knights Landing Ridge drainage district, 243
COMMERCE, D E P A R T M E N T O F
  creation, etc., 138, 1161
  director: museum of science and industry: functions, 1161
  governor's reorganization p l a n s : effect, 1161
  world trade, division of, 1161
C O M M E R C I A L COACHES : definition, 799
C O M M I S S I O N S AND C O M M I T T E E S , S P E C I A L '
  automobile accident study commission : appropriation, 720
   California bicentennial celebration commission: sale of commemorative items, 628
  California law revision commission, 224
  constitution revision commission, 390
  county citizens commissions or committees, 219
  districts securities commission, California. See D I S T R I C T S S E C U R I T I E S
               COMMISSION, C A L I F O R N I A
  educational commission of the states, 1538
  educational innovation commission, 952
  executive salaries, committee on, 1599
  fair employment practices commission, state, 1063
  health planning council standing committees, 1550
  highway commission, California. See HIGHWAYS—state commission.
  historical landmarks advisory committee, 628
  hospital and related health facilities and services planning committee, 326
  industrial welfare commission, 1218
  legislative committees. See LEGISLATURE—committees.
  marine research committee, 1593, 1614
  new commissions and committees—
     airport noise advisory committee, 1585
     educational improvement program and cost effectiveness, advisory committee on,
               784
     educational research commission, 1493
     extended opportunity programs and services, advisory committee on, 1579
     factory-built housing, advisory committee on, 1422
     industry and world trade commission, California, 1161
     low-income home ownership training and management program advisory commit-
               tee, 1562
     master teacher selection committee, 1617
     project area committee: community redevelopment, 955
     radiologic technology certification committee, 1504
     Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
     T O P I C S advisory committee, 1141
     University of California health science facilities construction program commit-
               tee, 1544
     vocational education advisory committee, 1495
  peace officer standards and training, commission o n : district peace officers' train-
               ing program, 1072
  recreational trails committee, California, 674
  scenic highways advisory committee, 727, 891, 1352
  status of women, advisory commission on the, 721
  water quality advisory committee, 482
  yacht and ship brokers commission: deletion, 1249
COMMODITY A D V I S E R S LAW, 1305
                                         INDEX                                        409

 COMMUNITY C O L L E G E S , C A L I F O R N I A . See also J U N I O R C O L L E G E S ,
    board of governors—
       adult class teachers: qualifications certificates, 981
       apprentice training instruction, 1360
       campus control provisions : personnel orientation, 809
       chief executive officer: junior college district organization proposals, 1148
       coordinating council for higher education, representatives o n : alternates, 1497
       extended opportunity programs and services, 1579
       Indian history and culture courses and research projects, 376
       junior college credentials, 961
       junior college district formation plans and recommendations, 791
       powers and duties, generally, 1026
       vocational education, 1555
       work experience education programs: allocations, etc., 518
    chancellor—
       apprenticeship council membership, 460
       coordinating council for higher education, representation on : alternates, 1497
       extended opportunity programs and services, advisory committee o n : powers,
                 duties, etc., 1579
      vocational education: powers and duties, 1555
   college opportunity grants, 1258
   extended opportunity programs and services, 1579
   federal program participation, 882
   students—
      college opportunity grants, 1258
      work study programs, 518 ,
   work experience education programs, 518
COMMUNITY M E N T A L H E A L T H S E R V I C E S
   advisory boards, 722
   county plans, 722
   drug abuse services, 379
   five-year plan, 722
  psychiatric technicians, 1120
   Short-Doyle A c t : funds, 1594
COMMUNITY P R O P E R T Y
  decedents' estates, 856
  family law act, 1608
  inter vivos trusts, 647, 1607
  management and control: exceptions, 647
COMMUNITY R E D E V E L O P M E N T
   agencies: federal programs: land conveyances and dissolution, 1561
  agencies : publicly owned land, etc.: payment, 95
  bonds, 600, 248
  Crescent City disaster area, 1358
  relocation assistance, 955, 1489
COMMUNITY S E R V I C E S D I S T R I C T S , 340, 538. 629
COMPENSATORY EDUCATION, O F F I C E O F . See E D U C A T I O N , S T A T E
                D E P A R T M E N T OF—compensatory education, office of.
C O M P R O M I S E S E T T L E M E N T S , 277, 570
COMPTON, CITY O F : charter amendments, 225
C O N C E R T H A L L S , 1534, 1535
CONDEMNATION
  airport relocation and development, 942, 1228
  a w a r d s : apportionment: lienholders, 1256
  Los Angeles international airport relocation and development, 942
  property tax due on condemned property: procedure, 205
  public utilities: procedures, 855
  Riverside County flood control and water conservation district, 586
  San Gorgonio Pass water agency, 1027
CONDOMINIUMS, 121, 275
CONFLICTS OF I N T E R E S T
  legislators' code of ethics: legislative intent and construction, 1512
  Medi-Cal conflict of interest law, 475
  public officers and employees: financial interests and political contributions, 1512'
  public officers and employees: open space land contracts, 825
CONGRATULATIONS AND C O M M E N D A T I O N S
  Alamitos, City of, 243
  Anders, Lieutenant Colonel William A., 60
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 410                                   INDEX

  C O N G R A T U L A T I O N S AND COMMENDATIONS—Continued'
     Bakersfield, City of: centennial, 88
     Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, Lodge No. 6, 13
     Bergen, W. B., 62
     Beta Sigma Phi sorority, 113, 115
     Borman, Colonel Frank, 59
     Burrill, Frank, 65
     Butler, Dr. Fred O., 24
     California school employees' association, 135
     Chinese Americans: transcontinental railroad construction, 222
     Clark, William Patrick, Jr., 86
     Crain, Chester Russell, 215
     Dairy Animal Health Committee, California: brucellosis eradication, 252-
     Desmond, Richard, 73
     F a r m Bureau Federation, California: golden anniversary, 112
     Finch, Robert H., 13
     Furtado, Manuel, 58
     Golden Chain Council of Mother Lode, Inc., Ill                >
     Goodwill Industries, California, 124
     Hope, Bob, 231
     Indoor Sports Club, Inc., 205
     International Association on Water Pollution Research, 284
     Italian-American Federation of California, I n e . : 50th anniversary, 182
     Kerlin, William A., 117
     Kiwanis International, 55
     La Fiesta de las Rosas, 57
     Lodi, City of, 324
    Lovell, Captain James A., Jr., U.S.N., 61
    Maloney, Thomas A., 154
    Monterey Park Progress: 50th anniversary, 30
    Morris, R. L. "Cuba", 65
    National Association of Insurance Women, 110
    National Association of Suggestion Systems, Southern California Chapter, 114
    North American Rockwell Corporation, 62
    Palo Alto, City of: 75th anniversary, 105
    Recording for the Blind, Inc., 83
    Redlands, City of: Redlands Day a t S a n Bernardino County Fair, 285
    San Francisco Police Athletic League, 268
    South Bay Daily Breeze, 364
    Steuben Society of America, 183
    Toastmistress Clubs, International, 51
    Veneman, John G., 121
    Volk, Robert H., 195
    Williams, R a y E., 245
    Wood, Dr. R. Coke, 64
    Woods, Walter Winston, 209
C O N G R E S S I O N A L C U P W E E K , C A L I F O R N I A , 39
CONSERVATION
    department: inclusion of state lands commission and division of state lands, 138
   districts: Sonoma County flood control and water conservation district, 1038
   education program, 334
   soil conservation—
       districts : formation, additions, etc., 706
       division : district formation, etc., 706
       g r a n t s : recreation inclusion, 202
       Sunset Cliffs beach erosion control project, 102
   Soil Stewardship Week, 109
C O N S E R V A T I O N CAMPS : rehabilitation center inmates, 1425
CONSERVATORSHIP
   additional powers, prescribed, exercise of: court order, 552
   alcoholics, 722
   bonds, 67
   cemetery authority's endowment care funds, 983
   collection agencies, 930
   mentally disordered persons, 722
   mentally retarded persons, 1594
   transfer to another state, 293
C O N S T A B L E S , 83, 134, 360, 525, 690
CONSTITUTION, CALIFORNIA
  constitutional convention delegates, 853
  proposed constitutional amendments—
      bonds, general obligation: interest, 299
                                      INDEX                                      411

     convict labor, 263
     corporations: revision of provisions, 264
     deputy and associate superintendents of public instruction, 361
     homestead exemption: repeal, 263
     legislature : powers: general obligation bonds interest r a t e : increase, 299
     penal institutions, 263
     property taxation exemption: disabled or blind veterans, 369
     public utilities commission : revision of provisions, 264
     revisions, partial, 331, 340
     school appropriation bills : introduction and passage, 325
     special election to submit, 738, 1060, 1110
     state indebtedness: veterans' bonds, 326
     teachers' examinations, certificates, etc., 358
     teachers' retirement fund, s t a t e : investment, 221
     textbooks: adoption, distribution, etc., 358
     University of California regents: meetings, 360
     voting eligibility: ability to read Constitution in Spanish or English, 308
C O N S T I T U T I O N K E V I S I O N COMMISSION, 390
CONSTRUCTION WORK
  contracts. See CONTRACTS,
  earthquake protection, 1394
   equipment, special construction, 90
  health facility construction loan insurance law, California, 970
  Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
  mechanics' liens, 1362
  permits, 713, 757
  San Francisco Bay, 713
  swimming pools, 583
  trust deeds, 1468
  Unruh retail installment sales a c t : inapplicability, 554
  works of improvement, 1362, 1611
CONSUMER COUNSEL, O F F I C E O F : agriculture and services agency, inclusion
              in, 138
CONTAINERS
  avocadoes, 577
  cantaloupes, 163
  cheese, 544
  fair packaging and labeling act, 1309
  honeyball melons, 163
  lettuce, 633
  pet food, 1241
  pomegranates, 672
  prescriptions, 147
  prunes or plums, 278
  rubbish dumps: fireproof containers, 135
C O N T E M P T , 140
CONTRA COSTA C O U N T Y : judges, 1491
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY STORM D R A I N A G E D I S T R I C T , 427
CONTRACTORS
  apprentices, 1260
  contracts. See CONTRACTS.
  electrical or mechanical systems or facilities design, 861
  financial solvency, 735
  home improvement business, 1583
  licenses, 735, 761
  mechanics' lien notice, 1176
  mobilehome installers, 761
  painting: violations, 820
  public utilities removal or relocation, 1154
  public works contractors : apprentices, 1260
  public works contractors: cost reduction : extra compensation, 926
  registrar: financial statements: powers and duties, 735
  securities in escrow, 1496
  subcontractors: substitution, 332
  swimming pool contractors, 583
  violations, certain: injunctive relief, 698
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
412                                   INDEX

CONTRACTS
  bids—
     city public works projects, 594
     county real property leases: medical or dental school use, 1090
     county real property sale, 897
     ferries, 630
     junior college buildings and facilities, 1076
     Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
     redevelopment work, 955
     San Bernardino County flood control district, 31
     school district materials and supplies, 1093
     school district motor vehicle rentals, etc., 1187
     state public works projects, 926
  Bighorn Mountains water agency, 1175
 bridge and highway district insurance, 366
 capitol building souvenirs: sale, 370
 cities—
     agricultural land owners, 1372
     federal housing programs, 1067
    highway fund expenditures, 746
    homemaker services, 117
     public projects, 594
  commodity advisers, 1305
 conditional sales. See MOTOR V E H I C L E S — s a l e s ; SALES—conditional sales
             contracts.
 construction work, 871,1439
  contractors: cancellation, etc., 332
  counties—
     agricultural land owners, 1372
     employment agency, private, services re public assistance recipients, 469
     federal housing programs, 1067
     homemaker services, 117
     special services: deferred compensation, 354
     supervisors' delegation of certain contractual authority, 499
  dance studios, 611, 1571
  decedents' estates: sale of personal property, 462
  educational research commission, 1493
  employment agencies, 1233
  freeway construction, street and highway closure re, 515
  Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 888
 gas supply mains and appurtenances: public work or improvement, 251
 harbor districts, 768
 health studios, 611, 1571
 highway construction projects: cost reduction, 926
 highway permit carriers, 192
 hold harmless agreements: local agency emergency flood relief work, 52
 home improvement, 1583
 homemaker services, 117, 1163
 joint powers agreement agencies, 966
 Kern Delta water district, 1085
 land, covenants running with, 245
 Lassen-Modoc County flood control and water conservation district, 82
 local governmental agencies: gas supply mains and appurtenances: work or im-
             provement, 251
 local health districts: homemaker services, 117
 Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
 mechanics' liens. See M E C H A N I C S ' L I E N S .
 Medi-Cal carriers, 880
 membership organizations: unsolicited merchandise, 400
 mentally retarded persons' services, 1594
 Montalvo Municipal improvement district, 352
 mosquito abatement and control, 288
 motor clubs, 858
 motor vehicle conditional sales, 255
 motor vehicle leasing, 1208
 Mountain View shoreline regional park community, 1109
 North Lake Tahoe public utility district, 1356
 premium finance agencies, 873
 psychiatric technician educational or training programs, etc., 1120
 public construction : progress payments : withholding percentage, 1439
 public contracts: public securities issuance feasibility, etc., reports, 935
 public corporations: redevelopment area property: reimbursement, 95
                                       INDEX                                       413
  public utilities: gas supply mains an,d appurtenances: public work or improve-
             ment, 251
  public utilities : removal or relocation, 1154
 public utility districts, 388
 'public works, state, 1036
  real property sales. See R E A L P R O P E R T Y — s a l e s .
  recreational trail operation, 674
  redevelopment agencies, 95, 955
  replacement housing: freeway construction projects, 917
  restraint of trade, 1234
  retail installment sales, 186, 353, 554, 625, 1192
  riot and civil disorders insurance association, California, 649
  San Bernardino County flood control district, 31
  San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district, 24
  San Francisco harbor commission, 1400
  Santa Clara County transit district, 180
  schools. See SCHOOLS.
  Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
  specific performance: assured counterperformance, 156
  state agencies, 144, 1462, 280
  subdivision land project sales, 763
  swimming pool construction, 583
  Tahoe City public utility district, 1356
  Tulare County flood control district, 1149
  Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
  vocational education and technical training, California advisory council on, 1555
  water service, 1085, 1086, 298
CONTROL, S T A T E BOARD O F
  crime prevention, rescue, etc.: indemnification of private citizens, 1111, 1431
  relocation assistance : powers and duties, 1489
  wrongful imprisonment: indemnification, 704
CONTROLLER, STATE
  airport assistance funds : duties, 1604
  construction projects : withholding from progress payments, 1439
  health care deposit fund : duties, 21
  highway user funds : local agency use : review, 1498
  homeowners' exemption claimants, supplemental: time for payment, 86
  leaves of absence, 277
  mentally retarded and mentally disordered persons programs: transfer of fund»,
             722
  motor vehicle fund transfers, 1437
  program cost accounting system: state agencies: duties, 1325
  riot and civil disorders insurance association, California: powers and duties, 649
  sales tax study, 1532
  school building aid repayment: deductions from apportionments, 16
  unclaimed property, certain : powers and duties, 838
  University of California health science facilities construction program committee;
             membership, 1544
COORDINATING COUNCIL FOR H I G H E R EDUCATION
  children's center teacher training programs plan, 1503
  community colleges, California, representatives: alternates, 1497
  education, state board of, representative, 1497
   Indian history and culture courses and research projects, 376
  private higher education in California: study, 296
   small college and university campuses: increase: feasibility study, 341
   tenure rules: study, etc., 146
C O R O N E R S , COUNTY, 343, 1220, 1398
CORPORATIONS
   actions against: venue, 855
   alcoholic beverage license transfers, 654
   arrangement plans under federal provisions, 322
   commissioner—
      commodity advisees: licensing and regulation, 1305
      retirement systems : regulation, 314
   constitutional provisions : revision, 264
   corporate name : reservation fee, 322
   definition, 1320
   department: corporations division's name change to, 138
   division: name change to department of corporations, 138
   domestic : filing requirements, 1159
   foreign banking corporations, 1281
   merger or consolidation with foreign corporation: shares, 376
   no par shares, 481
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
414                                         INDEX

CORPORATIONS—Continued
  nonprofit—
     corporation tax exemption, 1320
      county theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
     insurance production agency licenses, 220
     medical or dental schools, 1090
     property taxation, 84, 123
     television, educational, 62
  nonstock corporations, 396
  paid-in surplus : credits, 481
  professional corporations: physical therapists, 1440
  psychological corporations, 1436
  reorganization: taxation, 1606
  stock: acquisition by banks, 895
  stock : state ownership, 264
  vehicle offenses: summons, 1278
C O R P O R A T I O N S CODE
  codification of various constitutional provisions, 855
  codification to maintain codes, 37
C O R R E C T P O S T U R E W E E K , 125
CORRECTIONAL, F A C I L I T I E S
  fraudulent entry, 424
  medium security institution : California Men's Colony, 421
C O R R E C T I O N A L I N D U S T R I E S C O M M I S S I O N : cotton and synthetic yarn, etc.:
              purchases, 270
CORRECTIONS, STATE DEPARTMENT O F
  director—
      inmates' funds: duties, 1272
      mentally disordered prisoners: powers, etc., 872
      narcotics addicts' detention, etc., 238
      prisoner diagnostic services, 1195
      sentence and commitment recall recommendation, 990
      temporary removal of inmates, 1425
  firefighters, prisoner: workmen's compensation, 1112
  human relations agency, transfer to, 138
  jurisdiction, 421
  prisoner confinement, 1010
COSMETOLOGY, 569, 1619, 32
COSTS, C O U R T
  compromise offers, rejected, 570
  filing fees, certain, 842, 1499
C O T T O N : storage, 392
COUNCIL F O R E X C E P T I O N A L C H I L D R E N W E E K , 152
C O U N T I E S . See also particular county (e.g. M A R I N C O U N T Y ) ,
  airports. See A I R P O R T S .
  alcoholics, chronic: treatment and rehabilitation programs, 1472
  animal control department: dog licensing functions, 1181
  auditors. See A U D I T O R S , COUNTY,
  boating safety and enforcement programs, 1354
  budget. See B U D G E T S ,
  building departments: public accommodations accessibility standards: enforcement,
              1560
  cafe musician licenses, 969
  charters, generally, 331
  cigarette tax allocations, 128
  consolidation of county offices, 343
  construction permits, 757
  contracts. See CONTRACTS.
  counties under 7,000: on-sale alcoholic beverage licenses, 1078
  couties of 500,000 or more : sheriffs' special appropriation, 566
  counties of 4,000,000 or more: city assessments and tax collection: perform-
              ance, 50
  crippled children's services program, 1527
  district attorneys. See D I S T R I C T A T T O R N E Y S ,
  emergency medical care committees: annual report, 306
  farm labor centers: powers and duties, 420
  forestry camp inmates : juvenile wards : firefighting, 590
  geriatric commitment screening, 292
  health facility construction loan insurance: eligibility, 970
  indigent persons' legal counsel services, 1514
  jails. See J A I L S .
                                         INDEX                                       415

   juvenile wards or dependent children: support, 437
   Know Your County Government Week, 1S8
  land surveys, 1121
   loans. See LOANS—counties.
   Medi-Cal care and administration costs, 21
   medical examiner, 1398
   mental health services. See COMMUNITY M E N T A L H E A L T H S E R V I C E S .
  motor vehicles : warning lights, 218
  officers and employees. See O F F I C E R S A N D E M P L O Y E E S , P U B L I C .
  ordinances—
      commercial vehicle use of certain highways: weight restrictions, 1598
      consolidation of county offices, 343, 638
      coroner: replacement by medical examiner, 1398
      disaster property tax relief, 582
      holidays, 1521
      indecent exposure, 1534, 1535
      island highways as parts of subdivisions, 723
      obscenity, 1534, 1535
      property tax relief: disaster areas, 20, 129
      purchasing agents' checking accounts, 505
      water pollution by vessels, 79
  population estimates, 1013
  projects financed by bond issue, 739
  property leases, 1090, 1348
  property taxation. See P R O P E R T Y T A X A T I O N .
  purchases. See P U R C H A S E S ,
  purchasing agents, 463, 505, 857
  relocation assistance, 1228, 1489
  rescue t e a m s : liability, 573
  rights of way conveyance, streets or highways, 235
  road commissioners, 343, 638
  road fund deposits, 344
  roads: sidewalk and curb construction, 276
  roads: snow removal, 725
  school tax revenue decrease from open space lands agreement: financial assistance,
              1322
  search and rescue expenses: payment, 589
  sewer and sanitation systems charges: collection, e t c . : compensation, 318
  supervisors—
     apprehension of certain criminals : rewards, 412
     assessment districts: powers, 874
     ballot measure identification designation : approval, 160
      citizen committees or commissions: allowances, 219
     contractual authority : delegation, 499
     county employees' retirement: members' contribution increase: payment, 548
     county hospital records : destruction, 677
     county road divisions, 1025
     county service area recreational assessment, 1300
     court investigative staff, 944
     criminal justice, California council o n : representation, 1211
     data processing equipment sale and leaseback : approval, 463
     disaster area relief, 747
     dog licensing functions : transfer, 1181
     emergency repairs: contractor's performance bond waiver, 101
     fire protection district director appointment, 203
     freeway construction: county highway closure : hearings, 515
     general election, governor's proclamation calling : posting, 159
     harbor improvement district duties, 929
     highway easements: abandonment, 1290
     highway routes and locations, s t a t e : hearings, 515
     housing authority commissioners, 321
     island highways, certain : powers and duties, 723
     law library trustees: number, 17
     medical or dental schools: property leases, 1090
     property sales: alternative procedures, 897
     property taxation administrative functions: delegation, 130
     radio, nonprofit educational: contributions, 1385
     salaries. See S A L A R I E S , W A G E S , ETC.—county officers.
     San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district financing, 24
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
416                                    INDEX

COUNTIES—Continued
  supervisors—continued
     San Gorgonio Pass water agency condemnation: approval, 1027
     sanitation district, county, loans, 419
     Santa Clara County transit district: duties, 180
    school district territory transfers : hearings, 830
    school district unification : duties, 1146
    sewer maintenance district tax levy, 782
    sheriff's special appropriation, 566
     state hospital advisory board members: nomination, 459
    street lighting assessments, 766
    theatrical schools and institutes: powers, 1348
    T O P I C S advisory committee: representation, 1141
    Tulare County flood control district: powers, 1149
 surveyors. See L A N D SURVEYORS,
  tax collectors: consolidation of duties, 343
 taxation. See T A X A T I O N ,
  theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
  trailer coach fee allocations, 126
  tuberculosis patients, treatment of: reimbursement, 811
  unclaimed property : disposition, 857
  vehicle license fee allocations, 127, 556
  welfare departments—
     attendant care services, 660
     employment agencies' referral of public assistance recipients, 469
    homemaker services, 117, 660, 1163
 youth correctional centers, 1193
COUNTRY AND W E S T E R N MUSIC W E E K , 136
COUNTY C L E R K S . See C L E R K S , COUNTY.
COUNTY E M P L O Y E E S ' R E T I R E M E N T L A W O F 1937
  benefits—
     death benefits, 548, 621
     final compensation, 416
     life annuity : alternative benefits, 621
     reciprocal benefits, 1007
     retirement allowances, 548, 767
     surplus funds, payment from, 1271
     survivors' benefits, 548, 621
  board: benefits payment from surplus funds, 1271
  board: release of certain information re members, 239
  contributions—
     employer, 978
     members, 548, 1157
     withdrawal of district members: disposition, 317
 disability retirement: safety members, 922
 members—
     constables, 83
    deferred retirement, 1157
    district members: withdrawal, 317
    fire suppression employees, 1247
     information release, certain, 239
    law enforcement employees, 1247
    less than 3 years service : final compensation, 416
    prior service credit, 501, 978
     retired members: benefit payment from surplus funds, 1271
    safety members, 767, 1247, 1463
 service credit, 501, 978, 1247
 social security, federal: supplement, 1329
COUNTY S E R V I C E A R E A S , 30, 188, 1300
COUNTY S U P E R I N T E N D E N T S O F SCHOOLS
 air travel insurance, 938
 bilingual education demonstration program: administration, 1379
 driver education and training programs, 1104, 1573
 educationally handicapped minors' teachers' loans for specialized preparation, 1198
 elementary courses of study development: costs, 1180
 exceptional children's tuition payments, 1524
 office of: review and study, 784
 physically handicapped minors transportation allowances, 1407
 preschool programs, 1282
 regional occupational centers and programs, 1368
                                       INDEX                                        417

 salaries, 1432
 school district budgets: powers and duties, 636
 school district elections : unification proposals: duties, 1146
 school district governing board elections, 1513
 school related activities, transportation for: authority, 1392
 tax levy for, 744
 teachers' examinations, etc., control of: deletion, 858
 television, educational, 62
 t r u a n t s : duties, 973, 992
COUNTY W A T E R D I S T R I C T S
 city annexations, 934
 fire protection services, 629
 promissory notes, 507
 sewer waste treatment and disposal facilities, 898
 Sierra Lakes county water district, 100
 storm water facilities, 898
 water service to certain land within, 18
COUNTY W A T E R W O R K S D I S T R I C T S , 315, 415, 434
COURT R E P O R T E R S
 appellate courts, 1449
 compensation : various counties, 1302
 Contra Costa County, 1491
 Los Angeles County, 642
 municipal courts, 1302
 Riverside County, 642
 salaries. See S A L A R I E S , W A G E S , E T C .
 Santa Clara County, 237
 supreme court, 1449
COURTS
 administrative director: salary, 1449
 cemetery authorities' endowment care funds: duties, 983
 clerks—
      corporate summons: vehicle offenses, 1278
      judgment entry : certificate of mailing, 87
      jury or traffic commissioners, 40
      salaries, 1449
      transfer of action, etc.: duties, 345
 commissioners. See subheading, superior courts, below,
 courts of appeal, 1449, 1487
 dismissal of actions, 186, 958, 1610
  evidence, certain : disposal order, 48
  filing fees, 347, 842, 1499
  in camera hearings re admissibility of informant communications, 1412
  investigative staff, 944
  judges and justices. See J U D G E S A N D J U S T I C E S .
  juries. See J U R I E S AND J U R O R S .
  jurisdiction—
      felony or misdemeanor complaints: election by district attorney, 1144
      inter vivos trusts, 1172
      law revision, 1610
      motor vehicle conditional sales contract actions, 724
      transfer motion, etc., 345
      vacation of judgments, 773
  jury commissioners, 40
  justice court jurors. See J U R I E S AND J U R O R S .
 juvenile courts. See J U V E N I L E C O U R T S ,
  municipal courts—
      clerks: fees, 178
      Contra Costa County, 1491
      filing fees, 347
      findings and conclusions, 339
       Los Angeles County, 707
       Los Gatos-Campbell-Saratoga judicial district, 237
       officers and attaches: residence, 97
      officers and attaches: various districts, 1302
       Newhall, 1602
       Orange County, 1490
       Palo Alto-Mountain View judicial district, 237
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.


     14__Lr-2180
418                                    INDEX

COURTS—Continued
  municipal courts—continued
      Pomona, 1490, 1602
      River judicial district, 1491
      Sacramento, 1490
      San Bernardino County, 842
      San Francisco municipal court, 347
      San Jose-Milpitas judicial district, 237
      San Leandro-Hayward judicial district, 1490
      San Mateo County, 1212
      Santa Clara judicial district, 237
      Santa Monica, 1490, 1602
      Sunnyvale-Cupertino judicial district, 237
      vacation of judgments, 773
  orders: sentence and commitment recall, 990
  peace officers. See P E A C E O F F I C E R S ,
  probation report: evaluation, 522
  psychiatrists: fees, 1140
  public defender's services: eligibility determination, 957
  records, documents, etc., production : order, 1034
  small claims—
      bankruptcy trustee's actions, 491
      conditional sales contract holder's actions, 491
      school district's reimbursement of personal property damage or loss, 846
  superior courts—
      Alameda County, 1184
      commissioners and referees, 1302, 1602
      habeas corpus writs issued by : return, 38
      healing arts practitioners' violations: injunctions, 1158
      judicial secretary, 1217
      Los Angeles County, 1302
      Orange County, 1485
      San Diego County, 1490
      San Francisco City and County, 1302
      Santa Barbara County, 1480
      Santa Clara County, 1482
      Solano County, 1217
   supreme court: habeas corpus writs, 38
   supreme court: officers and attaches, 1449
   traffic commissioners, 40
COVENANTS. See CONTRACTS.
CRABS, 47, 488
CRAIN, C H E S T E R R U S S E L L , 215
C R A N E S : boomstops, 683
CREDIT
  alcoholic beverage retailers, 549
   corporate alcoholic beverage licensee, 654
   credit cards, 423, 904, 905
   retail credit sales and accounts: disclosure of information, 625
   state of California, 264
   statement: motor vehicle sales, 1189
C R E D I T UNIONS, 222
C R E D I T O R S . See D E B T O R S AND C R E D I T O R S .
C R E S C E N T CITY, CITY O F : disaster area redevelopment loan, 1358
CRIMES
   adoptive children : concealment, 1251
   aircraft damage, willful, 286
   airport noise violations, 1585
   apprehension of certain criminals: reward, 412
   bomb murders, 923
   burglary, 1136
   campus disorders, 804. 1122. 1424
   cemetery authority endowment care funds : certain violations, 983
   commodity advisers law violations, 1305
  conflict of interest violations, 1512
  dance studio contract violations, 1571
  dog act violations, 1393
  dog regulation and licensing violations, 571
   election petitions or ballot measures: contribution misappropriation, 106
   factory-built housing violations, 1422
   fair packaging and labeling act violations, 1309                         '
                                             INDEX                                             419
  firearm sale, supply, etc., to mental patients, 1021
  firearms: commission of felonies while armed, 954
  firearms used in : disposition, 789
  fraudulent claims against state or other public entity, 545
  grand theft, 1171
  healing arts practitioners' fee violations, 1158
  healing arts practitioners' prohibited business relationships violations, 1333
  home improvement business violations, 1583
  income tax records, disclosure of information re, 980
  injury threat to public and school officials, 1207
  insurance companies' financial condition, etc.: false rumors, 839
  interstate highway carrier violations, 1279
  Madera County flood control and water conservation agency: ordinance violations,
              916
  measuring devices, certain, violations re, 386
  Medi-Cal services or merchandise claims, false or fraudulent, 562
  mental patients' escape: assistance, etc., 1021
  murder or manslaughter: time of death, 593
  obscene m a t t e r : distribution of harmful matter to minors, 248
  obscene m a t t e r : violations, 249
  oil cleanup substances : regulation violations, 409
  pandering, 542
  paramilitary organizations, 804
  perjury, 831
  pet food and horsemeat violations, 815
  pimping, 542
  prison, jail, etc., admission: false identification, 424
  private citizens preventing, e t c . : indemnification, 1111, 1431
  prostitution, 1319
  radiologic technology violations, 1504
  real estate syndicate act violations, 928
  restricted dangerous drug violations, 403
  riot emergency areas, etc.: illegal entry, etc., 1096
  state capitol, disruptive activities within, 1528
  traffic infractions, 9, 1131
  two-way mirrors: unlawful use, 428
  unlawful assembly, 365
  vehicle code violations: misdemeanors, 9
  vending machine owner's name requirement violations, 927
  water pollution by human excreta from vessels, 79
  weights and measures misrepresentation, 731
  wild animal importation violations, 975
C R I M I N A L I D E N T I F I C A T I O N AND I N V E S T I G A T I O N , S T A T E B U R E A U O F
   detention records : minors, 260
   enforcement personnel: workmen's compensation, 1402
   mentally ill persons' firearms purchase : duties, 1119
   personnel, certain: concealed firearms, 1012
   tear gas weapons, 1231
C R I M I N A L J U S T I C E , C A L I F O R N I A C O U N C I L O N : members, 1211
C R I M I N A L L A W AND P R O C E D U R E
   arrest. See A R R E S T S .
   bail. See B A I L .
   campus disorders. See CAMPU& D I S O R D E R S .
   defendants' release: own recognizance, 944
   failure to appear, 9, 1194
   felony or misdemeanor complaints: election, 1144
   firearms : concealable : definition, 1002
   firearms: disposition, 789
• grand theft, 1171
   informants' communications: admissibility, etc., 1412
   juvenile fugitives, out-of-state, 1011
   machinegun: definition, 1003
   mentally disordered prisoners, 872
   motor vehicle violations: reports, 1248
   murder or manslaughter, 593
   notice to appear, 1259
   obscenity, 1534, 1535
   organized crime investigations, 1357
   perjury, 831
   prisoner offenses, 1010
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics,'
420                                         INDEX

C R I M I N A L LAW AND PROCEDURE—Continued
  probation. See P R O B A T I O N .
  prostitution, 1319
  public defender. See P U B L I C D E F E N D E R S .
  T'ppsll of spntcncp QQO
   search and seizure. See S E A R C H A N D S E I Z U R E . "
  sentences. See S E N T E N C E S .
   subpoenas. See S U B P O E N A S .
   witnesses, out-of-state, 734
  wrongful imprisonment, 704
C R I P P L E D C H I L D R E N . See P H Y S I C A L L Y H A N D I C A P P E D   PERSONS—
               children.
C R O P D U S T E R S , 530, 561
                                               D
D A I R I E S AND DAIRY P R O D U C T S . See M I L K A N D D A I R Y P R O D U C T S .
D A I R Y A N I M A L H E A L T H C O M M I T T E E , C A L I F O R N I A : brucellosis eradica-
              tion, 252
D A I R Y MONTH, 150
DAMAGES
  emergency medical care, 989
  home improvement contracts: false or fraudulent representations, 1583
   inadequate or excessive verdicts : new trials, 115
   injury or death claims: advance or partial payments, 1261
  jet aircraft supersonic booms, 194
  pharmaceutic organization members, 264
  podiatric organization members, 264
  public utility property damage, 709
   real estate violations: judgments, 729
   restraint of trade, 1234
   unsolicited goods billing : exemplary damages, 265, 400
  water pollution, 482
  wrongful imprisonment, 704
DAMS AND R E S E R V O I R S
  Castaic dam and lake, 663
  Castaic reservoir complex, 258
   Dixon dam and reservoir project, 1070
   Dos Rios dam and reservoir, 345
   irrigation districts, 533
  New Melones dam and reservoir project, 251
   Oroville reservoir state recreation area, 555
   Prado dam and reservoir, 344
   Pyramid reservoir, 258
   recreational facilities, 533
   San Luis d a m : national cemetery, 238
   supervision fees, 363
DANA P O I N T M A R I N E L I F E R E F U G E , 56
DANCE S T U D I O S , 611, 1571
DATA P R O C E S S I N G , 463, 1418
DDT, 315
DEAD BODIES
   anatomical gifts, 268
   autopsies, 1132
   disposition instructions, 999
D E A F P E R S O N S , 1107, 1331, 1382
DEATH
   peace officers: scholarships for dependents, 1616
   wrongful death: claims against decedents' estates, 959
D E B T O R S AND C R E D I T O R S
   creditors' claims: against decedents' estates, 177
   creditors' claims : powers of appointment, 155
   debtors : service on, 134
   judgment debtors: execution, etc., on districts' obligations to, 154
  lenders' liability, 1584
   vessel registration agents, 578
D E E D S . See also T R U S T D E E D S .
  covenants running with land, 245
  irrigation district tax-deeded property, 1346
  powers of appointment, 155, 468
D E E R , 383, 813
D E L MUTOLO, J U D G E M. G., 381
D E L E G A T I O N O F P O W E R S , 499, 966, 1422
                                            INDEX                                              421

D E L T A W A T E R AGENCY, 285
D E M O G R A P H I C S E R V I C E S , 1013
DEMOLAY W E E K , 43
D E N T A L SCHOOLS : leases: county property, 1090
DENTISTRY, PRACTICE OF
    board of dental examiners—
      foreign dental school graduates: duties, 183
      radiation safety examination, 1338
   California Dental Centennial Year, 25?
   dental assistants: radiation safety examination, 1338
    dentists—
      actions against, 560
      foreign dental school graduates, 183
      radiation safety, 1338
   radiographic equipment, 1338
D E P A R T M E N T S AND A G E N C I E S , S T A T E
   children's eenter program financing and cost analysis, etc., 31ft
   leases, 1030
   mosquito abatement and control, 288
   program cost accounting systems, 1325
   records, 371
   retraining of civil service employees, 1199
   tax funds, local agency: transmittal, 2
D E P O S I T I O N S , 44, 48, 1289
D E P O S I T O R I E S : local agency funds, 1483
DEPOSITS
   bail and fines: sheriffs' bank accounts, 279
   banks. See B A N K S AND B A N K I N G .
   county special services contracts: deferred compensation, 354
   joint exercise of powers agreements, 375
   local agency funds, 1483
   restraining orders, temporary, or preliminary injunctions, security for, 141
DESMOND, R I C H A R D , 73
D E S T R U C T I V E D E V I C E S , 205
D E T E N T I O N : minors, 260, 1008, 1011
DIAMOND J U B I L E E YEAR : motion pictures, 207
D I R K S E N , U N I T E D S T A T E S S E N A T O R E V E R E T T M o K I N L E Y , 398
DISABLED PERSONS
   broadening of programs, 349
   children: adoption, 261
   housing accommodations: access, 832
   mentally retarded aid recipients: private institutional care, 1416
   motor vehicle weight fees: exemption, 812
   relatives' responsibility, 1416
   veterans' home of California, 1142
   veterans: property tax exemption, 1332
DISADVANTAGED PERSONS
   educational opportunities: Indian students, 211
   government entry-level jobs: creation, etc., 1068
   low-income home ownership training and management program, 1562
   new careers in education act, 1453
   preschool educational programs, 1282
   rehabilitation, 1107
   school meals: free or reduced price, 1577
   state college educational opportunity program, 1336
D I S A S T E R O F F I C E , C A L I F O R N I A : property survey and title transfer, 1000
DISASTERS
   alcoholic beverage license, seasonal: extension : disaster areas, 94
   businesses damaged by floods or storms: federal assistance, 99
   Cal-Vet loans: disaster indemnity benefits, 204
   county emergency repairs, etc.: contractors' bond waiver, 101
   Crescent City: disaster area redevelopment loan, 1358
   emergency areas : entry, 1096
   floods. See'FLOODS.
   property tax relief, 20, 129, 582
   sanitation districts, county : damage repair, 419
    schools in disaster areas : 1968-69 : apportionments, 263
D I S C O V E R A M E R I C A VACATION P L A N N I N G T I M E , 129
D I S C O V E R F L Y I N G MONTH, 229
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
422                                         INDEX

 DISCOVERY, 1267, 1565
 DISCRIMINATION
    employment: training programs, 609
    insurance issuance, premiums, etc., 620
 D I S E A S E S . See names of particular disease, e.g., T U B E R C U L O S I S .
 DISPLACED PERSONS
    airport relocation and development, 942, 1228
    freeway construction projects, 917
    housing: use of community redevelopment property, 1561
    Los Angeles international airport relocation and development, 942
    public acquisition of property: dislocation allowance, 1489
    redevelopment areas, 955
    relocation assistance, 917, 942. 955, 1228, 1489
D I S S O L U T I O N O F MARRIAGE, 1608, 1609
DISTRICT ATTORNEYS
    cemetery authorities' endowment care funds: duties, 983
   election : candidates : filing fees, 1160
   felony or misdemeanor complaints : election, 1144
   preliminary examination transcripts, criminal cases: availability to judges, 118
   prisoner's appearance as defendant or witness: duties, 242
    salaries. See S A L A R I E S , W A G E S , ETC.—county officers, followed by name of
                particular county.
D I S T R I C T S U P E R I N T E N D E N T O F S C H O O L S : preliminary school budgets, 636
DISTRICTS
   budgets, 1170
   elections. See E L E C T I O N S .
   financial reports, 1170
    flood control. See F L O O D CONTROL.
   formation, 1301
   grand jury investigations, 931
   harbor districts. See H A R B O R D I S T R I C T S .
   judgment debtors, obligations t o : claims against, 154
   ordinances—
       holidays, 1521
       municipal water districts, 71
       San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district, 24
       water pollution by vessels, 79
   peace officers' training program, 1072
   reorganization act of 1965—
       Atherton Channel Drainage District: applicability, 1301
       city annexations, 1177
       recreation and park districts: applicability, 1301
       signature requirements, 1301
   taxation. See T A X A T I O N .
   unclaimed money in treasuries: escheat, 655
D I S T R I C T S S E C U R I T I E S COMMISSION, C A L I F O R N I A
   abolishment and transfer of functions, etc., to state treasurer, 1396
   Kern Delta water district contracts: approval, 1085
   Tuolumne County water agency: bonded indebtedness: approval, 1236
D I V I D E N D S : savings and loan associations, 179
DIVORCE
   family law act, 1608
   fault: elimination as basis, 1608
   final decree : date, 489
   Indian marriages, certain, 120
   property rights, 1607, 1608
   uniform divorce recognition act, 1608
DOCTORS. See P H Y S I C I A N S AND S U R G E O N S .
DOCUMENTARY T R A N S F E R TAX, 1102, 1108
DOGS
  abandonment, 1138
  dog act of 1969, 1393
  game mammal running, tracking, etc., 383
  guide dogs for the blind, 832
  licenses, 1181
  regulation and licensing violations, 571
D O H E N Y B E A C H M A R I N E L I F E R E F U G E , 56
DONNELLY, H U G H P., 371
DORAN, O F F I C E R E U G E N E A., 173
D O W N E D A I R C R A F T SEARCH AND LOCATION ACT, 1460
                                         INDEX                                     423
DRAINAGE D I S T R I C T S
  Contra Costa County storm drainage district, 427
  Knights Landing Ridge drainage district, 257
D R I V I N G SCHOOLS, P R I V A T E , 346, 1454
DRUGS AND D E V I C E S
  community narcotics and dangerous drug treatment services, 869
  dangerous drugs, 147, 641, 1091, 160
  devices: definition, 641
  drug abuse, 1618, 160, 379
  habit-forming drug addicts : possession, 722
  habit-forming drug addicts: state hospital placement, 624
  hallucinogenic drugs : research, 429
  harmful drugs and hallucinogenic substances: study, 1566
  hypodermic needles and syringes, 1028
  ingredients of drugs: name and quantity on label, 1522
   labeling, 1522
  pharmaceutical devices: prescriptions, 641
  research advisory panel, 1297
  research: generally, 429
  restricted dangerous drugs—
      possession for sale: penalty, 403
      seizure and disposition, 1091
      transportation, importation, sale, etc.: penalty, 403
      users: custody, evaluation and treatment, 869
      violations: minors, 519
   Youth Temperance Education Week, 54
   youthful drug abusers: study, etc., 377
D R U N K D R I V I N G . See MOTOR V E H I C L E S — d r u n k driving,

                                             E
EARTHQUAKES
  building protection, 1394
  sanitation districts, county : disaster loans, 419
  school building safety, 333, 1523
  seismic safety, joint committee o n : creation, purposes, etc., 378
EASEMENTS
  city open space easements, 762
  city streets, 665
  county highways : abandonment, 1290
  county open space easements, 762
  open space lands, 762
  public utilities, 92
  recreational trails, 674
   Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district, 92
  utility easements, 665
E A S T E R SEAL MONTH, 1,2
ECONOMIC D E V E L O P M E N T A G E N C Y : name change to division of economic
             development, 138
ECONOMIC P O I S O N S . See POISONS—economic.
E D I S O N S C I E N C E Y O U T H DAY, 35
EDUCATION
   prisoners : effect of escape or continuation, 588
   science fairs, 81
EDUCATION CODE
  codification to maintain code, 534
   McAteer alcoholism act provisions: transfer to welfare and institutions code, 1107
   obsolete provisions : repeal, 391
   technical amendments, 157, 390, 395, 518, 896, 1022
EDUCATION. COMPACT FOR, 1538
EDUCATION, COUNTY BOARDS O F
   elementary school courses of study : development, 1180
   members—
      election, 744
      personnel commission membership, 602
      school district governing board vacancies: interim appointment to fill, 1513
       workshops, 1040
   opportunity schools : establishment, 1295
   president: school district governing board vacancies: interim appointments to fill,
              1513
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
424                                    INDEX

EDUCATION, COUNTY BOARDS OF—Continued
  regional occupational centers and programs: tax levy, 1368
  solicitation of funds, etc., by charitable nonpartisan organizations: approval, 1223
  tax levy for, 744
 teacher shortage determination, 1401
 teacher training institution personnel assignments, 1262
  teachers' examinations, etc., control of: deletion, 358
EDUCATION, D I R E C T O R O F
  annuities: education department and California maritime academy employees, 801
 blind college students' study assistance, 1147
 new careers in education program : administration, 1453
EDUCATION, S T A T E BOARD O F
  annuities: education department and maritime academy employees, 801
 appointments—
     deputy and associate superintendents of public instruction, 361
     educational research commission members, 1493
  blind pupils' instructional materials: statewide use, 618
  children's center teacher training programs plan, 1503
 contracts: textbooks: reproduction, UIO, 1114
 coordinating council for higher education, representative on, 1497
  dropout prevention programs : power and duties, 1501
  educational improvement program and cost effectiveness, advisory committee on,
             784
  educational research commission : federal funds, 1493
 graduation academic standards preparation and distribution, 1373, 1552
  mentally retarded minors' integrated programs, 1124
  minimum academic standards, grades 6, 8, and 1 2 : deletion, 1408
  new careers in education program: policy, 1453
  outstanding educators of the y e a r : duties, 1568
  public schools of California : evaluation study : cooperation, 335
  regional occupational centers and programs: powers and duties, 953
  sabbatical leaves, certificated employees: study, 321
  school testing act of 1969: powers and duties, 1552
  schoolbus seatbelts : mandatory installation, 363
  teacher shortage determination guidelines, 1401
  teachers' credentials: duties, etc., 1130, 1503
  television classes for adults, Los Angeles County: powers and duties, 1446
  territory transfers, school district: hearings, 830
  testing program requirement, 1408
  textbooks: duties, 1110, 1114, 1349, 358
  unification proposals : disapproval: effect, 1146
  unification : pupil enrollment factor : approval, 334
  vocational education : powers and duties, 1555
EDUCATION, S T A T E D E P A R T M E N T O F
  airport noise advisory committee: representation, 1585
  average daily attendance computation procedure: study and report, 313
  bilingual education demonstration program, 1379
  children's center program financing and cost analysis, etc., 3^1
  compensatory education, office of—
     cost effectiveness programs: administration, 784
     director—
       new careers in education program: powers and duties, 1453
       reading and mathematics intensive instruction projects: evaluation report,
             1596
     dropout prevention programs : powers and duties, 1501
     educational improvement programs : administration, 784
  contracts—
     new careers in education program participation, 1453
     teacher training institution personnel assignments, 1262
  driver education and training advisory and consulting u n i t : deletion, 1588
  driver education and training programs, 1104, 1573
  driver training districts, experimental: cost reimbursement, 1454
  driver training program, experimental: powers and duties, 1454
  employees : annuity contracts, 801
  harmful drugs and hallucinogenic substances study, 1566
  mentally retarded minors' experimental programs: approval, 1124
  Miller-Unruh basic reading act allocations: specialist teacher employment, 294
  private educational institutions: regulation, etc., 1409
  private higher education in California: study, 296
                                        INDEX                                       425

   readjustment education, bureau of: duties re private educational institutions:
          transfer, 1409
   regional occupational centers and programs: powers and duties, 953, 1368
   sabbatical leaves, certificated employees: study, 321
   school certificated employees' dismissal, statements r e : custody, 157
   school health services study : cooperation, 995
   school testing programs : powers and duties, 1552
   state polytechnic college property : sale, 750
   summer vocational and technical education programs: powers and duties, 1495
   summer vocational education experimental pilot program: deletion, 1555
   teacher preparation courses re students' ethnic variances: duties, 1586
   television, educational: cost effectiveness determination, 368
   Temple City differentiated staffing program: evaluation, 295
   vocational education and technical training information system, 1555
   vocational education program evaluation u n i t : creation, functions, etc., 1555
   workshops, 1040
E D U C A T I O N A L COMMISSION O F T H E S T A T E S , 1538
E D U C A T I O N A L I M P R O V E M E N T ACT O F 1969, 784
E D U C A T I O N A L R E S E A R C H COMMISSION, 1493
E E L R I V E R , 273, 31,5
E L CAMINO V I E J O , 76
E L DORADO COUNTY : certain officers: salary, 1410
ELECTIONS
   absent voting, 256, 557, 939
   advisory: San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district financing, 24
   alcoholic beverage sale, etc., during voting hours, 614
   ballot arguments, 943, 1520
   ballot measures, 106, 160, 1383
   ballot pamphlets, 1383
   ballots, 256, 779, 913, 939
   bond elections—
      county road divisions, 1025
     rapid transit districts, 635
      Santa Clara County transit district, 180
      sewage facilities, districts providing, 1564
      Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
      University of California health science facilities construction program bond act,
               1544
   campaign contributions, 106, 1512
  campaign statements, 106, 1512
   candidates—
      declarations of intent: state legislators, 1469, 1470
      district attorneys: filing fees, 1160
      district elective office appointees: ballot designation and position as incumbents,
              575
      filing fees : district attorney, 1160
      independent nominations, 948. 1151
      judicial office, 1469
      junior college governing board members, 3
      legislators, state, 1469, 1470
      nomination papers, 426, 5 1 ] , 1151
      party affiliation : effect on independent nomination, 948
      presidential candidates: write-in candidates, 1556
      qualifications statements, 170
      sanitary district officers and directors, 719
      school district governing board members, 936
      verification deputies, 679
      write-in votes: presidential candidates, 1556
   canvass of returns, 914
   central committees, county—
      Democratic party, 1225, 1316, 1317
      independent p a r t i e s : organizational meetings, 1225
      members : Democratic p a r t y : continuation in office, 1225
      members : Democratic party : election, representation, etc., 1316
       Sacramento County : Democratic party, 1317
       state convention vacancies: filling, 454
      tabulating tapes : replacement, 151
   central committees, state—
      Democratic party organizational meeting, 1225
      independent p a r t i e s : organizational meetings, 1225
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
426                                      INDEX

ELECTIONS—Continued
   central committees, state—continued
       meetings, 1, 453, 1225
       members : Democratic party : continuation in office, 1225
      national convention delegates and alternates: naming, 1556
      proxies, 455
      Republican p a r t y : first meeting in 1969, 1
      state convention delegates, 453
      vacancies, 453, 454                 \
   city. See subheading, municipal, below.
   constitutional convention delegates, 853
   conventions, national: delegates, 1556
   conventions, state : delegates, 453, 454
   county—
      county road divisions, 1025
      officers, generally, 331
   districts—
      American River flood control district, 426
      Brannan-Andrus Levee maintenance district, 257
      Camp F a r West irrigation district, 152
      candidates. See subheading, candidates, above.
      Delta water agency, 285
      fire protection districts, 203
      Montague water conservation district, 496
      municipal water districts, 71
      officers, generally, 331
      Russian River recreation and park district, 197
      sanitary districts, 719
      Santa Clara County transit district, 180
      Sierra Lakes county water district, 100
      Solano County flood control and water conservation district, 374
      Southern California rapid transit district, 387
      uniform district election law : procedural changes, 438
  education, county boards of, 744
  filing fees, 1160
  general elections : governor's proclamation, 159
  hospital districts, local, 943
  initiative and referendum, 106, 511
  judges, 780, 1469
  legislators, state, 497, 1469, 1470
  municipal—
     annexations, 780
     initiative, referendum, or recall petitions, 774
     mayors' terms of office, 504
     officers, generally, 331
  political parties—
     new parties: procedure, 783
     Republican party, 453
  primary—
     1970 primary elections—
        special election consolidated with—
           ACA 28, 29, 30, 31 : submission, 1060
           state indebtedness : constitutional amendment, 738
           textbooks : constitutional provisions revision, 1110
           University of California health sciei^ce facilities construction program bond
              act, 1544
 punchcard svstems, 913, 939
 recall, 106. 511, 774, 835, 940
 registration—
     address change notification, 870
    affidavits, 402, 810, 1543
    county other than residence: permanence, 810
    reports : supporting documents, 607
    social security number on affidavit, 402
    tabulating cards, etc.: transmittal to county central committees, 151
schools. See SCHOOLS—elections.
 special elections—
    justice court vacancies, 780
    Lawndale elementary school district tax override, 23
    proposed constitutional amendments, submission of, 738, 1060, 1110
    school district unification, 1146
    state indebtedness: constitutional amendment, 738
                                          INDEX                                       427

       University of California health science facilities construction program bond act :
                submission, 1544
     verification deputies, 679
     voters—
       address change notification, 870
       eligibility: reading Constitution in English or Spanish, 808
       felony convictions, 1543
       husband and wife: residence, 461
       registration. See subheading, registration, above,
       war voters, 75
     voting machines, 781
 E L E C T I O N S CODE : obsolete provisions : deletion, 497
 E L E C T R I C A L W E E K , 16, 19
 ELECTRICITY
    freeway lane control: mass public transportation, 703
    irrigation districts : regulation, 1374
    street lighting facilities, 184
 ELECTROLOGY, 569
 ELECTRONIC DEVICES
    aircraft rescue transmitters, 1460
    bureau of electronic repair dealer registration : report of activities: repeal, 99
    service dealers, 308, 806
    tape recorder repair, 806
 E L E M E N T A R Y AND SECONDARY S C H O O L D R O P O U T P R E V E N T I O N A C T
                O F 1969, 1501
 ELK. 383
 E L K S , B E N E V O L E N T AND P R O T E C T I V E O R D E R O F , L O D G E NO. 6, 73
E L K S N A T I O N A L Y O U T H W E E K , 38
E M B A L M E R S , 284
E M B A R C A D E R O M U N I C I P A L I M P R O V E M E N T D I S T R I C T , 174
EMERGENCIES
    aircraft rescue transmitters, 1460
    county repairs, etc.: contractor's bond waiver, 101
    highways: flares, 167
    medical care : liability, 989
    medical services program, emergency, 1084
    public works tool and equipment r e n t a l s : bid waiver, 144
E M E R G E N C Y M E D I C A L CARE C O M M I T T E E S , 306
E M E R G E N C Y M E D I C A L S E R V I C E S P R O G R A M , 1084
E M I N E N T DOMAIN
    airport relocation and development, 942, 1228
    Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 888
   Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
   recreation, etc.: land appropriations, 357
   relocation assistance, 1228, 1489                                            N
   riding and hiking trails, 851
    Riverside County flood control and water conservation district, 586
    San Francisco Bay conservation and development commission, 713
    San Gorgonio Pass water agency, 1027
    Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
E M P L O Y E E S U G G E S T I O N DAY I N C A L I F O R N I A , 114
E M P L O Y E R S AND E M P L O Y E E S
   employees : wage claims, 1529
   employers—
      employment fees, 560
      minors' employment register and hours of work notice, 1589
      unlawful employment practices: correction, 526
   employment fees, 182
   employment papers : availability, 714
   fair employment practices. See F A I R E M P L O Y M E N T P R A C T I C E S .
   master and servant relationship, certain provisions r e : repeal, 1537
   self-employed individuals' retirement funds: state income tax, 1607
   semimonthly payday law : exception, 599
   termination of employment for wage garnishment, 1529
   training program : discrimination, 609
   workmen's compensation : training programs, 1133
EMPLOYMENT
   department: food crop growing and harvesting sanitation, 1017
   director: unemployment disability insurance : reimbursement orders, 885
   fees, 560
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 428                                    INDEX

 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES, PRIVATE
     application filing fees, 12
     bureau—
        advisory board : members, 1233
        counselors, employment agency: powers and duties, 1531
        domestic help contracts: approval, 1233
        fees: duties, 755, 1233
        licensing and examination dutiesL 1536
        names, applicants': duties, 1595 \
     corporations or partnerships, 1233
     counselors, 1531
     employment agency a c t : exceptions to applicability, 1233
     fees, 182
    licenses, 12, 755, 1233, 1536
    management consultants, 1233
    names, 1595
    public assistance recipients' placement, 469
 E N G I N E E R S AND E N G I N E E R I N G
    board of registration, 181, 1204
    industrial engineers, 181, 1080
    investigating committees, 1204
    land surveying, 474
    mechanics' liens, 1364, 1468
    metallurgical engineers, 397
    National Engineers' Week, 34
    professional engineers, 372, 1204
    school employment, temporary, 1308
    water pollution research, 28Ji
 E N T E R P R I S E C I T Y SCHOOL D I S T R I C T , 523
E N T E R T A I N E R S , 969, 1534
 E N T R E P R E N E U R S : contribution to economic development, 971
 E N V I R O N M E N T A L H E A L T H W E E K , 97
E N V I R O N M E N T A L QUALITY STUDY COUNCIL, 963, 1042
E Q U A L I Z A T I O N , COUNTY BOARDS O F
    assessment reduction applications, 1095
    assessment valuation : presumption, 1306
    disaster area property, 1968-69: duties, 129
    value determination : comparable sales, 1020
E Q U A L I Z A T I O N , S T A T E BOARD O F
    interstate highway carriers: records, 1279
   members: leaves of absence, 277
   oil and gas operators' reports : access, 553
   property taxation—
       business inventory exemption revenue loss, 671
       open space lands : assessment, 565
       possessory interests, 1509
       profession, trade, etc., property value determination, 658
       valuation factors : comparable sales, 1020
       welfare exemption eligibility findings, SI
   San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district transactions and use t a x : admin-
                  istration, 24
   Santa Clara County transit district, services to, 180
   Southern California rapid transit district transactions and use t a x : administra-
                  tion, 1567
E R O S I O N . See S O I L CONSERVATION.
E S C A P E S , 722, 1021
E S C H E A T , 655
ESCONDIDO, CITY O F : Davis-Grunsky Act g r a n t : Dixon dam and reservoir
                  project, 1070
ESCROWS
   agents: audit reports, etc., 224
  alcoholic beverage licenses, 524, 654, 1083
   public contractors : securities, 1496
ESTATES OF DECEDENTS
   claims against, 177, 431, 512
   distribution, 124, 604
  foreign will, 46
  I n d i a n s : validity of certain Indian marriages, 120
  lease of estate property, 596
  partition action, 379
  personal property: sale, 462
                                      INDEX                                     429
   probate proceedings : distribution, 124
   public administrator's fees and charges, 319
   real property : sale : notice, 149
   securities: exchange, 425
   testamentary guardians: minors' testamentary estates, 563
   testamentary t r u s t s : removal of trustees, 272
   unclaimed: distribution, 856
E S T E R O M U N I C I P A L I M P R O V E M E N T D I S T R I C T , 236
EVANS, J A M E S A., 66
EVIDENCE
   business records, 199
   campus disorders participants' prior convictions, 1424
   commodity advisers law violations, 1305
  coroner's inquests, 1220
  discharge of judgment: bankruptcy, 902
  disposition, 44, 48
  eminent domain : Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 888
  foreign wills, 46
  inadequate or excessive damages : new trials, 115
   informants' communications, 1412
  motor vehicle violations, 833
  National Guard aircraft accidents, 1267
  obscenity, 249, 925
  organized crime investigations, 1357
  perjury, 831
  real estate violations, 729
   records, documents, etc.: notice to produce, 1034
   self-incrimination, immunity from, 1357
  unemployment insurance wage base determination: tax delinquency certificate as
                prima facie evidence, 828
   video tape records, 646
E X E C U T O R S AND A D M I N I S T R A T O R S
  partition actions, 379
   personal property of estate : sale, 462
   public administrators: consolidation of duties, 343
  public administrators: fees and charges, 319
  securities: exchange, 425
E X H I B I T I O N S : property taxation, 123
E X H I B I T S : civil actions: disposition, 44, 48
E X P L O S I V E S , 205, 568
EXTENSIONS OF TIME
   atomic development and space, joint committee o n : existence, 333
  bank branch office opening, 843
  Bay Area regional organization, joint committee o n : existence, 128, 346
  compact for education, 1538
  compensatory education special teacher employment programs, 1578
   Delta water agency maps, etc.: filing and ratification, 285
   fire protection district annexation maps, etc.: filing, 137
   fish and game commission's plenary regulatory authority, 110
   fish packing and reduction privilege tax, 1614
  governor's economic report: submission, 1323
  governor's reorganization plan : submission, 1423
   magpies, yellow-billed, as nonprotected birds, 299
   Marin County tidelands improvement, 1375
   motor vehicle driver's license suspension, 1045
   motor vehicle exhaust control device testing program, 650
  property tax escape assessments, 1126
  public works prevailing per diem wage rate determination, 301
  reading and mathematics intensive instruction program, 1578, 1596
  real estate loans, certain, 493
   school building earthquake safety repair, etc., tax rate increase for, 333
   school building fire and panic safety corrective measures tax rate increase, 997
   school district budgeting and accounting, advisory commission on, 637
   school housing aid: districts impacted by seasonal agricultural labor, 1578
  tax-deeded property redemption, 1346
  tires, studded: use on state highways, 169
   Yolo-Zamora water district map, etc.: filing, 241
E Y E G L A S S E S , 1337
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
430                                    INDEX

                                          F
F A C T O R Y - B U I L T HOUSING LAW, C A L I F O R N I A , 1422
F A I R E M P L O Y M E N T P R A C T I C E COMMISSION, S T A T E , 526, 1063
F A I R E M P L O Y M E N T P R A C T I C E S , 609, 1539
F A I R PACKAGING AND L A B E L I N G ACT, 1309
F A I R S AND E X P O S I T I O N S , 909, 1293, 1488
F A M I L Y COUNSELORS, 298                    i
F A M I L Y LAW ACT, 1608                       '
F A M I L Y P R A Y E R , W E E K OF, 40
F A R M B U R E A U F E D E R A T I O N , C A L I F O R N I A , 112
F A R M LABOR CONTRACTORS, 1094
F A R M S . See A G R I C U L T U R E .
F E E D L O T S , 743
F E L L O W S H I P S , 1335
F E R R I E S , 630
F I G U E R O A , G E N E R A L J O S E : commemorative portrait, 243
FINANCE, DEPARTMENT OF
    college or university campus disturbance control: local law enforcement costs:
               reimbursement, 1427
    commerce, department of, name change to, 138
    commercial vehicle study funds: approval, 351
   community mental health services: city or county matching funds: approval, 1594
    demographic services, 1013
    director—
       master teacher selection committee membership, 1617
       resources protection allocations, 1052
       San Francisco property, certain : conveyance, 1367
       San Francisco tide and submerged lands, 1474
       surplus funds, 1330
       University of California health science facilities construction program commit-
               tee : membership, 1544
    disability fund investments, 829
    emergency flood relief allocations, 52
    indigents' legal counsel: duties, 1514
    riot and civil disorder insurance association, California: powers and duties, 649
    school certificated employee sabbatical leaves : study, 321
    state college expenditure and appropriation comparison, 1405
    University of California health science facilities construction bond act program,
               i544
F I N A N C I A L C O D E : codification to maintain code, 25
F I N A N C I A L I N S T I T U T I O N S : tax offsets, 1461
F I N C H , R O B E R T H., 13
F I N E S AND F O R F E I T U R E S
   air pollution control violations, 1298
    aircraft damage, willful, 286
    aircraft noise violations, 1585
    campus disorders, 1122, 1424
    cattle, stray, failure to identify, 743
   commodity advisers law violations, 1305
   corporations, domestic: filing violations, 1159
   dam or reservoir annual fees : nonpayment, 363
   dog act violations, 1393
   dog regulation and licensing violations, 571
   factory-built housing violations, 1422
   harmful matter distribution, etc., to minors, 248
   home improvement business violations, 1583
   horsemeat violations, 815
   injury threats, 1207
   innkeepers' rates and charges violations, 826
   insurance holding company system regulatory act violations, 1275
   insurers' financial condition, etc.: false rumors, 839
   insurers' violations, 1066
   interstate highway carrier violations, 1279
   Madera County flood control and water conservation agency: violations, 916
   Medi-Cal services or merchandise claims, false or fraudulent, 562
   motor vehicles. See MOTOR V E H I C L E S .
   mountain lion hunt violations, 987
   pet food violations, 815, 1241
   school district budget, failure or refusal to file, 636
                                       INDEX                                    431
   schools or school meetings: disturbance, 972
   sheriff's bank account for deposit of, 279
   truancy law violations, 972
   vending machine owner's name requirement violations, 927
   water pollution: fish and plant life damage, 1043
F I R E MARSHAL, S T A T E , 138 187, 568, 798
F I R E P R O T E C T I O N D I S T R I C T S , 137, 203, 206, 466, 572
F I R E S E R V I C E R E C O G N I T I O N DAY, 130
FIREARMS
   authorization to carry, 1164
   blank cartridges, 756
   commission of certain felonies with, 954
   concealable firearms : definition, 1002
   concealed: specified officials as peace officers, 1012
   habit-forming drug addicts, 722
   Huntington Lake game refuge: possession: repeal of provisions, 116
   licenses, 1188
   machineguns: definition, 1003
   mental patients, 1021
   mentally ill or mentally disordered persons, 722, 1119
   narcotics addicts, 722
   out-of-state purchases, 772
   regulations : preemption by state, 1428
    rifles and shotguns: out-of-state purchases, 772
    seized: disposition, 401
    sex offenders, 722
    state hospital or institution escapees, 722
   unclaimed or abandoned : disposition, 789
FIRES
    alarms and automatic sprinkler systems, 661, 798
    fire departments: members as peace officers, 1511
    fire protection—
       alarms and automatic sprinkler systems, 661, 798
       boarding homes and institutions for minors, 661
       children's institutions, 661
       community services districts, 629
       county water districts, 629
       forest areas, 688
       sprinkler systems, 661, 798
    Fire Service Recognition Day, 130
    firefighters, 500, 590, 1112, 1269
    firemen : first aid training, 572
    rescue: indemnification of private citizens, 1431
    sanitation districts, county : disaster loans, 419
    school building fire and panic safety corrective measures, 997
    sprinkler systems, 661. 798
    volunteer fire departments, 203, 572
F I R S T A I D : firemen's training, 572
F I R S T V A L I D A T I N G ACT O F 1969, 13
F I S H AND GAME
    abalone, 689
    antelope, 383
    b a i t : sardines, 1384
     boundaries: pheasant club zones, 299
     Buena Vista aquatic recreation area project: Kern County, 1235
    clams, freshwater, 488
     commercial fishing, 488, 689, 1384, 1576
     commission—
        commercial fishing: educational and scientific purposes, 689
        herring egg harvesting, 817
        plenary regulatory authority: extension, 110
        salmon season and bag limits, 110
        servicemen or veterans' special h u n t s : permits, 695
     crabs, 47, 488
     crustaceans : sport fishing, 675
     deer, 383, 813
     department—
        Carpinteria Valley watershed project: wildlife protection, 1T2
        commercial fishing program income and expenditures report, 1576
        domesticated fish delivery permits, 1092
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics:
432                                     INDEX

F I S H AND GAME—Continued
   department—continued
       marine life refuges, fishing permits, 56
       mountain lions : report, 987
       ocean fish resources utilization : master inventory and master plan, 1384
       oil cleanup substances: duties, 409, 482
       sardine fishing, commercial: duties, 1384
       state water project planning : Los Angeles County, 258
       water project studies, 906         I
   depredatory mammals : mountain lions, 987
   District 3B : abolishment, 116
   Dixon dam and reservoir project, 1070
   elk, 383
   fish-
       dealers or processors, 1092
       definition, 689
       domesticated : delivery, etc., 1092
       Imperial Valley warmwater hatchery, 1244
       marketing, 702
       ocean fish resources: master inventory and master plan for utilizing, 1384
   fishing—
       industry survey, 328
       marine life refuges, 56, 693
       underwater parks, 483
       wildlife management areas, 988
   game bird clubs: Zone A : licensed pheasant club zones, 299
   game mammals, 383, 813, 987, 1075
   herring egg harvesting, 817
    hunting—
       antlerless deer, 813
       game mammals, 813, 987
       mountain lions, 987
       partridges, 696
       pheasant clubs, 574
       servicemen or veterans: special hunts, 695
       wildlife management areas, 988
    Imperial Valley warmwater hatchery, 1244
    licenses, permits, etc.—
       commei'cial fishing, 1576
       domesticated fish delivery permits, 1092
       herring egg harvesting, 817
       mountain lion hunts, 987
       pheasants, 1285
       servicemen or veterans' special hunts, 695
       sport fishing : marine life refuges, 56. 693
       sport fishing : mollusks and crustaceans, 675
    marine research committee, 1593, 1614
    mollusks, 488, 675
    motmtain lions, 987
    New Melones dam and reservoir project, 251
    Pacific murine fisheries compact, 361
    packing and reduction, 1384, 1576
 * partridges, 696
   pheasants, 299, 574, 1285
    Poway water storage project, 1065
    Prado dam and reservoir, 3J/4
    prawns, 488
    refuges, preserves, and sanctuaries—
       Dana Point marine life refuge, 56
       Doheny Beach marine life refuge, 56
       game refuge 3B : abolishment, 116
       Huntington Lake game refuge, 116
       James V. Fitzgerald marine reserve, 675
       Point Fermin marine life refuge, 693
    resources protection: state highway projects, 1052
    salmon, 110
    sardines, 1384
    seasons—
       crabs, 47
       pheasants, 574
       salmon, 110
                                        INDEX                                      433
   shrimp, 488
   staghorn sculpin, 488
   t r a p s : shrimp and prawns, 488
   water appropriations, 1359
   water pollution damaging to fish and plant life, 1043
   wildlife management areas, 988
F I S H AND GAME C O D E : codification to maintain code, 55
F I S H E R , R O B E R T F., 282
F L A M M A B L E M A T E R I A L S , 135, 1214
F L O O D CONTROL
    Carpinteria Valley watershed, 172
    county water districts, 898
    districts—
        American River flood control district, 426
        Contra Costa County flood control and water conservation district, 74
        Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 769, 888
        Lassen-Modoc County flood control and water conservation district, 82
        Los Angeles County flood control district, 450
        Orange County flood control district, 295, 316
        Riverside County flood control and water conservation district, 198, 586
        San Benito County water conservation and flood control district, 89
        San Bernardino County flood control district, 31, 1456
        Santa Barbara County flood control and water conservation district, 258
        Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district, 92
        Solano County flood control and water conservation district, 374
        Sonoma County flood control and water conservation district, 1038
        Tehama County flood control and water conservation district, 27
        Tulare County flood control district, 1149
        Ventura County flood control district, 196, 407
    Eel River, 273, 345
    federal assistance, 75, 372
    Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
    Prado dam and reservoir, 344
    projects—
        Alhambra Creek flood control project, 74
        channel improvement and rectification, 262
        Cucamonga Creek, 1456
        Eel River Delta Levee, 345
        Feather River, 1443
        federal flood control projects, 262
        Lassen-Modoc County flood control and water conservation district, 82
        Lower Llagas Creek watershed, 1456
         Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
         maintenance areas, 908
         Sacramento River, 1284, 134
         San Joaquin River, 1284
         Santa Clara River, 256
         Santa Paula Creek, 184
         Sonoma Creek, 1038
         Sweetwater River, 1245
         walkways, pathways, etc., 979
     Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta area, 297
     San Joaquin-Kings River Interstream Group, 241, 829
     San Joaquin River, 292
     Santa Ana River Basin, 344
     Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
 FLOODS
     business damaged by : federal assistance, 99
     emergency flood relief, 52
     gas and diesel tax temporary increase for relief, 52
     insurance, 1115
     local agency general plans, 932
     property tax reassessment, 20
      San Bernardino County, 31
      sanitation districts, county: disaster loans, 419
 NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
434                                   INDEX

FOOD
   federal food stamps and community distribution programs, 289
   food warehousemen a c t : repeal, 392
   Good Nutrition Week, 69
   horsemeat, 815
   pet food, 815, 1241
   sales and use tax, 1533
   school nutrition programs, 354
   storage, 392
   weight, 411
F O O D W A R E H O U S E M E N A C T : repeal, 392
F O O T B A L L F O U N D A T I O N W E E K , NATIONAL, 255-
FOREIGN COUNTRIES
   aircraft or ship operations in : income tax exemptions, 1191
   banking corporations, 1281
   Mexico. See M E X I C O .
   physicians and surgeons: licensing, 503
F O R E I G N LANGUAGES
   Chinese : postgraduate study : veterans' benefits, 1484
   Spanish: voters' ability to read Constitution in, 308
F O R E S T S AND F O R E S T R Y
   district office No. 3 : relocation, 356
   forest fire protection, 688
    prison forestry camps—
       fraudulent entry, 424
      juvenile court wards : firefighting, 590
    state forester: forest protection, 688
    state forester: rubbish dumps: regulation, 135
F O S T E R P A R E N T S W E E K , 161
F O U R T H O F J U L Y : bell ringing, 230
F R A N C H I S E T A X BOARD
    agriculture and services agency, inclusion in, 138
    religious organizations: annual information statement, 1508
    senior citizens property tax assistance affidavits, 51
F R A N C H I S E S : San Francisco harbor, 1296
FRAUD
    claims against state or other public entity, 545
   home improvement contractors, 1583
    judgments : vacation of, 773
   Medi-Cal claims, 545, 562
F R E E D O M SEASON, 72, 74
F R E E M A N , Y. F R A N K , 71
FREEWAYS
   California freeway and expressway system, 294, 726
   city street closure : hearings, 515
   controlled use, certain lanes, 703
   county highway closure: hearings, 515
   El Segundo Freeway, 362
   location, 445
   Norwalk Freeway, 362
    Orange Freeway, 157
   speed limits, 91, 632
FRESNO, CITY OF
   charter amendment, 197
   state property : quitclaim, 1515
F R E S N O COUNTY : certain officers: salary, 1401
F R U I T S , N U T S , AND V E G E T A B L E S
   apples, 448
   asparagus, 596
   avocadoes, 577
   cannery inspection board, 1031
   cantaloupes, 163
   food crop growing and harvesting sanitation, 1017
   food crops, 349
   grapes, 176
   honeyball melons, 163
   National Raisin Week, 131
   persimmons, 672
   plums, 278
    pomegranates, 672
    prunes, 278
                                       INDEX                                     435
F U N D S , C I T Y : street funds, 665
F U N D S , COUNTY
   general fund: property tax judgment interest, 96
   school service fund : special education allowances, 784
FUNDS, FEDERAL
   alcoholic rehabilitation, 290
   bilingual education, 311
   commercial vehicle study, 351
   community colleges, 882
   Delano community water supply study, 1510
   education aid, 38,5
   educational research commission, 1493
   emergency medical services program, 1084
   flood control assistance, 75, 372
   fringe parking facilities, 1051
   highway aid, 703, 288
   intergovernmental welfare and information systems, 1418
   marine mineral technology center, 304
   maritime academy, California, 287
   master teacher selection program, 1617
   mentally retarded persons' services, 1594
   offshore oil pollution insurance fund, 365
   Point Reyes National Seashore land acquisition, 373
   public social services, 998, 286
   riot or civil disorder property loss reinsurance: reimbursement, 649
   school district appropriations, certain, partial release: review, etc., 120
   school testing program study, 1552
   television, educational, 1446
   T O P I C S programs, 1141
   unemployment trust fund, 1250
   vocational education, 366
F U N D S , LOCAL AGENCY
   community administrative fund: Mountain View shoreline regional park com-
               munity, 1109
   deposits, 1483
   Southern California rapid transit district, 1567
FUNDS, STATE
   aeronautics fund, 1587
  agriculture, department of, fund, 139
   airport assistance revolving fund, 682, 1585, 1603, 1604
   bicentennial celebration fund, California, 628
  capital outlay fund for public higher education: deposit, 657
  cigarette tax fund, 128, 933
  disability fund : investment, 829
  driver training penalty assessment fund, 1588
  emergency fund: appropriation, 66, 210
  employment agencies, bureau of, fund, 755
  fair and exposition fund, 1162, 1293
  general fund—
      appropriations. See A P P R O P R I A T I O N S .
     cigarette tax fund transfers to special account in, 128
     deposits—
        airport noise regulation penalties, etc., 1585
        Hastings College of Law property sale or lease proceeds, 797
        real property sales : revenues, 1024
        restraint of trade actions proceeds, 1234
        sanitarian examination application fees, 267
        wild animals and birds importation permit fees, 975
     motor vehicle license fee fund transfers to special account in, 127
     resources protection account, 1052
     trailer coach fees: deposit in special account in, 126
     transfers to : property tax relief fund, 1526
  harbors and watercraft revolving fund, 883, 1249
  health care deposit fund, 21, 814
  health facility construction loan insurance fund, 970
  highway fund—
     city streets, 746
     motor vehicle fund transfers, 1437
     state highway district allocations, 1134
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 436                                     INDEX

F U N D S , STATE—Continued
   highway fund—continued
      state high-way landscaping, 1037
      Sweetwater River flood control project, 1245
      T O P I C S projects, 1141
      vehicle permit fees: deposit, 1150
   highway users tax fund: T O P I C S projects, 1141
   motor vehicle fuel fund: appropriations, 1498
   motor vehicle fund: highway fund transfers, 1437
   motor vehicle license fee fund, 127
   motor vehicle pollution control fund,, 1298
   museum of science and industry fund: abolishment, 1162
   pooled money investment account, 868
   property tax relief fund : allocation to counties, 1526
   real estate education, research and recovery fund, 729
   school fund: appropriation bills, 325
   school land fund: abolishment, 1597
   state hospital sheltered workshop funds, 722
   street and highway disaster fund: flood relief, 52
   surplus funds, 1330
   transportation fund, 833
   transportation rate fund, 802, 865
   University of California health science facilities construction program        fund:
               creation, purposes, etc., 1544
   water quality control fund, 482, 1356
   water resources control board revolving fund, 482
   yacht and ship brokers fund: deletion and transfer of funds, 1249
F U N E R A L S : embalmers, 284
F U R T A D O , MANUEL, 58
F U T U R E B U S I N E S S L E A D E R S O F A M E R I C A W E E K , 111, 168

                                           G
GALT, CITY O F : Sacramento County fairgrounds property : quitclaim, 1488
GAMBLING, 262
G A R B A G E AND R E F U S E D I S P O S A L D I S T R I C T S , 69, 80
GARBAGE, R E F U S E , E T C . : collection vehicles: weight, 287
G E N E R A L DOUGLAS M a c A R T H U R DAY, 121
GENERAL SERVICES, DEPARTMENT OF
    agriculture and services agency, inclusion in, 138
   capitol area plan property: duties, 1597
   director—
       fairgrounds property, Sacramento County: quitclaim to City of Gait, 1488
      Fresno state college property : quitclaim to City of Fresno, 1515
      Hastings College of Law : property transfer to, 797
      lease of state property for parking facilities, 408
      Napa state hospital property : right-of-way grant, 1339
      Patton state hospital property: disposition, 722
   program cost accounting system: state agencies, 1325
   purchasing supervision, 1429
   rehabilitation workshops: state purchasing program participation, 280
   restraint of trade damage actions: approval, 1234
   San Fernando state hospital property, 950
   school building plans: approval fees, 1019
   state agency leases : approval, 1030
   state hospital sheltered workshop equipment: insurance approval, 722
G E N O C I D E , 342
G I F T S H O P S : county medical and health facilities, 1090
GIFTS
   anatomical gifts, 268
   minors : successor custodians, 1074
   olive oil, 659
   open space easements, 762
   state college auxiliary organizations, 1288
   taxation, 1200
  unsolicited merchandise, 265, 400
G L E N D A L E , CITY O F : charter amendments, 108
GOD B L E S S A M E R I C A W E E K , 193
G O L D E N G A T E B R I D G E AND H I G H W A Y D I S T R I C T . See B R I D G E AND
              HIGHWAY DISTRICTS.
                                           INDEX                                           437

GOMEZ, MANUEL, J R . : 1969 California Easter Seal child, 42
GOOD N U T R I T I O N W E E K , 69
G O O D W I L L I N D U S T R I E S : recognition, 124
G O V E R N M E N T CODE
  codification to maintain codes, 122, 1264
  obsolete or inoperative provisions : repeal, 439
  technical amendments, 1016
G O V E R N M E N T A L A G E N C I E S . See C A L I F O R N I A , S T A T E O F ; C I T I E S ;
              C O U N T I E S ; D E P A R T M E N T S A N D A G E N C I E S , S T A T E ; LOCAL
              GOVERNMENTAL A G E N C I E S ; U N I T E D STATES.
GOVERNOR
  appointments—
     airport noise advisory committee, 1585
     commerce, department of: director and deputy directors, 1161
     criminal justice, California council on : members, 1211
     factory-built housing, advisory committee o n : members, 1422
     health planning council chairman and vice chairman, 1550
     industry and world trade commission, California : member, 1161
     mental retardation area boards : certain members, 1594
     mental retardation program advisory board, s t a t e : certain members, 1594
     recreational trails committee, California: members, 674
     Southern California transportation study commission members, 1547
     state hospital advisory boards, 459
     T O P I C S advisory committee members, 1141
      transportation board, state : members, 1404
      vocational education and technical training, California advisory council on, 1555
   approval: tide and submerged land boundaries, 1044
   Berlin's Volkfest, U.S. Army : observance: state's best wishes, 218
   drug research advisory panel pharmacologist member, 1297
   economic report, 1323
   leaves of absence, 277
   powers: school support emergency bills, S25
   proclamations—
      Administrative Management Week, 49
      Aerospace Week, 250
      American Legion 50th Anniversary Month, 94
      American Music Month, 41, 52
      American Physical Therapy Week, 114
      Antilitter Month, 101
      Apartment Living Week, 206
      Apprenticeship Month, 191
      Archery Week, 244
      Astronauts' Day, 12
       Beach Safety Week, 155
      Beauty Salon Week, 32
       Bee Industry Week, California, 116
       Beta Sigma Phi Week, 118, 115
       Bill of Rights Week, 221
       California Bicentennial Day, 232
       California Wheelchair Games Days, 169
       Camp Fire Girls' Birthday Week, 96
       Canada-United States Goodwill Week, 141
       Cancer Control Month, 103
       Capitola National Begonia Festival Week, 118
       Chamber of Commerce Week, 41
       Children's Dental Health Week, 25
       Children With Learning Disabilities Week, 100
       Circle K Week, 55
       Classified School Employees' Week, 135
       Coin Day, California, 126
       College Football Centennial Season, 255
       Columbian Squires Week, 153
       Congressional Cup Week, California, 39
       Correct Posture Week, 125
       Council for Exceptional Children Week, 152
       Country and Western Music Week, 136
       Dairy Month, 150
       DeMolay Week, 43
        Dental Centennial Year, California, 251
 NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
438                                   INDEX

GOVERNOR—Continued
 proclamations—continued
   Diamond Jubilee Year: motion pictures, 207
   Discover America Vacation Planning Time, 129
   Discover Flying Month, 229
   Easter Seal Month, 42
   Edison Science Youth Day, 35
   Electrical Week, 16, 19
   Elks National Youth Week, 38
   Employee Suggestion Day in California, 114
   Family Prayer, Week of, Ifi
   Fire Service Recognition Day, 130
   Football Foundation Week, National, 255
   Foster Parents Week, 161
   Fourth of July bell ringing,- 230
   Freedom Season, 72, 74
   Future Business Leaders of America Week, 111, 168
   General Douglas MacArthur Day, 127
   general election : posting, 159
   God Bless America Week, 193
    Good Nutrition Week, 69
   Independent College Month, 303
    Independent Order of Odd Fellows Week, 11$
    Indoor Sports Club Week, 205
    Industrial Safety Week, 23
    International Toastmistress Week, 51
    International W a n t Ad Week, 106
    Invest in America Week, 84
    Junior Achievement Week, 17
    Junior Bowling Month, 247
   Keep California Green Month, 319
    Know Your County Government Week, 138
    Land Surveyor Week, 240
    Law and Morality Week, 274
    Law Day, U.S.A., 116
    Livermore Centennial Celebration Day, 123
    Maritime Day, 141
    Mexican-American Education Week, 93
    Mexican-American Week, 139
    Mosquito Control Week, California, 196
    motor vehicle fuel tax increase revenue: transfers, 725
    Municipal Clerks' Week, I64, 166
    Muscular Dystrophy Month, 189
    National Be Kind To Animals Week, 149
    National Engineers' Week, 34
    National Goodwill Week, 124
    National Insurance Women's Week, 110
    National Library Week, 158
    National Painting and Decorating Week, 85
    National Raisin Week, 131
    National Wine Festival Month in California, 382
    Nursing Home Week,- California, 175
    Optimist Month, 181
    Printers' Week, 211
    Private Education Week, 104
    Project Concern's Walk for Mankind Day, 383
    Public Schools Week, 107
    Quality Week, 132
    Redwood Bicentennial Discovery Day, 307
     Safe Boating Week, 236
     Schoolbus Safety Week, 46
    Secretaries' Week, 95
     Senior Citizens' Month, 162
    Soil Stewardship Week, 109
     Soroptimist Civic Leadership Week, 4
    Space Pioneers Day, 302
     Spanish-American Veterans Month, 78
     Square Dance Week, 102
    Toastmasters Week, 67
     Transportation Week, California, 148
                                       INDEX                                      439

     United Nations Day, 380
     Value Engineering Week, 48
     Veterans of Foreign W a r s Week, 137
     Vocational Industrial Clubs of America Week, California, 133
     Welcome Wagon Week, 70
     Welded Products Month, 122
     World Trade Week, HI
     Youth Temperance Education Week, 54
     Zero Defects Week, 45
  reorganization plan of 1968: conformance, 138
  reorganization plan No. 1, 1969, 1031, 1396, 1593, 1614
  reorganization plans: procedures, 1423
  secretaries, 1512, 1581
  University of California health science facilities construction program committee:
              membership, 1544
  Wood, Dr. R. Coke: designation as "Mr. California", 6£
G R A D E C R O S S I N G S AND S E P A R A T I O N S : stop signs, 840
G R A I N W A R E H O U S E S , 1348
GRAND J U R I E S . See J U R I E S AND JURORS—grand juries.
G R A P E S , 176
GRAZING : federal lands: fees, 82
GUARDIAN AND W A R D
  educationally handicapped children's programs or classes: consent to participation,
              784
  guardianship proceedings, 293
  mentally retarded persons, 1594
  nonresident wards, 293
  school records : availability, 1321
  sex education class attendance, 977
  special class or program participation: consultation with guardian re, 6 5 2 ,
  testamentary guardians: minors' testamentary estates, 563
  truancy law violations: penalties, 972

                                         H
H A B E A S C O R P U S , 38
H A N D I C A P P E D P E R S O N S , 887, 1107
HARBOR DISTRICTS
  Bolinas harbor district: land transfer, 787
  borrowing or conditional sales contract limits, 768
  county supervisors as successors t o : powers and duties, 929
  Orange County harbor district: land exchange, 1276
  public works : bids, 768
H A R B O R S AND W A T E R C R A F T
  department—
      abandoned vessels : disposition, 764
      Bolinas Bay lands: improvement, etc., p l a n s : duties, 787
      vessel registration, 758, 824
      waterways patrolling and law enforcement, 1354
H A R B O R S , BAYS, E T C .
  Bolinas Bay l a n d s : transfer, 787
  county supervisors' duties, etc., 929
  harbor districts. See H A R B O R D I S T R I C T S , above.
  harbors and watercraft, department of. See H A R B O R S A N D W A T E R C R A F T —
              department.
  peace officers, 1506
  pollution by human excreta from vessels, 79
  port districts. See P O R T A U T H O R I T I E S , D I S T R I C T S , E T C .
   San Francisco Bay : tidelands grant, 1474
   San Francisco harbor, 1296, 1400
  water quality control: San Francisco Bay Delta study, 1232
H A S T I N G S C O L L E G E O F LAW, 15, 797, 278
HAY, 164
HAZARDOUS S U B S T A N C E S : transportation, 9
HEALING ARTS
   licentiates : radiologic technology certification committee membership, 1504
  practitioners, 989, 1158, 1333
H E A L T H . See P U B L I C H E A L T H .
H E A L T H AND S A F E T Y CODE
   codification to maintain code, 39
   technical amendments, 737, 1394
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
440                                      INDEX

H E A L T H AND W E L F A R E A G E N C Y :    name change to human relations agency,
H E A L T H AND W E L F A R E P R O G R A M S : public employees' fringe benefits, 1230
H E A L T H CARE S E R V I C E S
   department—
      creation, etc., 138
      health review and program council, 21
      Medi-Cal carriers : coverage limitations, 880
   director—
      health review and program council: ex officio membership, 21
      Medi-Cal approved hospital facilities, 1452
      Medi-Cal benefits: recovery, 1420
      Medi-Cal program: duties and powers, generally, 21
      Medi-Cal program: federal fiscal intermediary contracts, 21
      Medi-Cal providers, 994, 1386, 1419
      workmen's compensation benefits, recovery, 1420
   public assistance recipients, 21
   voluntary area and local health planning agencies, 1451
H E A L T H F A C I L I T Y C O N S T R U C T I O N LOAN I N S U R A N C E LAW, CALI-
              F O R N I A , 970
H E A L T H P L A N N I N G COUNCIL, 1452, 1457, 1550
H E A L T H S T U D I O S , 611, 1571
H E A R I N G S . See ACTIONS AND P R O C E E D I N G S .
H I G H E R EDUCATION
   joint committee on higher education: creation, powers and duties, etc., 56
   private higher education in California : study, 2,96
   small college and university campuses: increase: feasibility study, 3A1
H I G H W A Y L I G H T I N G D I S T R I C T S , 171
HIGHWAY PATROL, DEPARTMENT OF CALIFORNIA
   business and transportation agency, inclusion in, 138
   camper safety standards, etc.: study and report, 31k
   commissioner—
      air pollution control device installation and inspection stations, 1064
      highways under federal jurisdiction, 1213
   enforcement personnel: workmen's compensation, 1402
   logs and poles : transportation, 816
   members, 167, 342, 1187
   retirement. See P U B L I C E M P L O Y E E S ' R E T I R E M E N T SYSTEM,
   schoolbus inspection, 580
   vehicle propulsion across crossing: exemption from restrictions, 237
HIGHWAYS
   county—
      commercial vehicle use of certain: weight restrictions, 1598
      county road divisions, 1025
      easements on abandonment, 1290
     freeway construction : closure, 515
     gas tax revenue allocations, 725
     island highways, certain : use restrictions, 723
     snow removal, 725
   definition, 1213
  districts: joint highway district No. 1 0 : dissolution : certain property transfer, 378
  division of highways, state—
     Blue Star memorial highways: powers and duties, 323
     Douglas Boulevard traffic study, 353
     emergency tool and equipment r e n t a l s : bid waiver, 144
     land exchange : Orange County, 985
     Orange Freeway signs, 157
     Robert E. McClure Tunnel signs, 393
  El Camino Viejo: 200th anniversary, 76°
  federal aid, 247, 288
  flood or storm damage : relief, 52
  motor vehicle removal from facilities, 1229
  railroad crossings : stop signs, 840
  San Francisco harbor, 1296
  scenic highway advisory committee, 891, 1352
  scenic highway corridors: open space use, 1473
  signs, 1101, 151
  state-
     bridge and highway districts, 1378
     construction projects, 451, 926, 1035
                                      INDEX                                      441

      federal-aid primary highway funds, 288
      landscaping, 1037, 317
      local regulation, 1365
      priority and expenditures, 291
      recreation land, etc.: acquisition, 357
      replacement housing program, 917
      resources protection, 1052
      restricted use: local ordinances, 1508
      rights-of-way, 1327, 1475
      scenic highway system, 294, 727, 891, 1352
   state commission—
      chairman: term, 1190
      freeway location: school district information, 445
      highway land leases : regulation, 1054
      highway land sales: approval, etc., 1186
      highway priority and expenditures, 291
      highway user fund expenditures, 1498
      landscaping funds, 317
      local regulation ordinances : powers and duties, 1365,
      use fuel tax revenues: use, 329
   state routes—
      adoption or selection : hearings, 515
      1, 727
      12, 726
      49 : Mother Lode Highway, 177
      57 : portion as Orange Freeway, 157
      58, Blue Star memorial highway, 323
      87, 1179
      105, 917, 3S2
      technical amendments, 294
   through highways, 168
  T O P I C S projects, 1141
   traffic control devices, 1033
   traffic regulations. See MOTOR VEHICLES—traffic                regulations.
H I N C K L E Y , S T E W A R T AND B E R T H A , 235
H O L I D A Y S , 1521, 302
H O L M E S , J A M E S L . : former assemblyman, 80
H O M E I M P R O V E M E N T C O N T R A C T O R S , 1583
H O M E S T E A D , 51, 564, 790, 1099, 263
H O N E Y B A L L MELONS, 163
HOOVER, H E R B E R T , JR., 301
H O P E , BOB, 231
H O R S E RACING : board : secretary's salary, 1601
H O R S E M E A T , 815
H O R S E S , B U R R O S , OR M U L E S : pleasure riding tax, 1572
H O S P I T A L D I S T R I C T S , LOCAL, 600, 608, 943
HOSPITALS
   advisory hospital council: hospital and related health facilities and services*
              planning committee, 326
   blood gas analysis, 108
   classes in : teachers, 910
   construction : state plan : relative need, 498
   cooperatives : taxation, etc., 1478
   county, 677, 1090
   health facility construction loan insurance law, California, 970
   liability: rescue teams, 573
   Medi-Cal use: licensing requirements, 1452
   rescue teams, 573
   state—
      advisory boards, 459
      Agnews state hospital: mental retardation facilities, 350
      commitments, 722, 866
      criminal commitments, 866
      escapees, 722, 1021
      Napa state hospital property : rights-of-way, 1339
      neuropsychiatry institutes' advisory boards, 459
      patients' funds, 1272
      Patton state hospital property: sale, 722
      physicians' and surgeons' services, 765
      program directors, 907
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 442                                       INDEX

 HOSPITALS—Continued
    state—continued
       released, etc., patients: county responsibility, 484
       sheltered workshops, 722
       trustees, boards of, 459
    unemployment disability hospitalization benefits notification to eligible patients:
                duty re, 584
    voluntary regional planning programs, 1451
 H O T E L S , 428, 826, 1039
 H O U R S O P L A B O R : school pupils, 1589
 H O U S E B O A T S : waste discharge, 482
 HOUSING
   authorities, 321, 1029
   blind, disabled, etc., persons: access, 832
   construction, sale, etc.: inapplicability of Unruh retail installment sales act, 554
   displaced persons, 917, 955, 1228, 1489
   factory-built housing, 1422
   farm labor centers, 420
   federal housing programs, 1067
   home improvements: contracts and contractors, 1583
    investments by banks and savings and loan associations, 493
   low and moderate income housing u n i t s : redevelopment areas, 955
   low-income home ownership training and management programs, 1562
   lumber costs : study, etc., 210
   relocation assistance, 917, 955, 1228, 1489
   renewal areas, 248
   replacement housing program: freeway construction projects, 917
   shoreline residential a r e a s : oil and gas lease restrictions, 1426
H O U S I N G AND COMMUNITY D E V E L O P M E N T
   commission—
      factory-built housing : powers and duties, 1422
      mohilehome accommodation structures, 1165
      mobilehome park operating permits, 1553
      painting standards: rules and regulations, 820
   department—
      business and transportation agency, inclusion in, 138
      earthquake protection enforcement fees, 1394
      factory-built housing, 1422
   director—
      low-income home ownership training and management program, 1562
H U M A N R E L A T I O N S AGENCY
   alcoholics, chronic: prevention, treatment, etc., 1472
   establishment, etc., 138
   mental retardation program advisory board, 1594
   public social services : out-of-home care : standards, 21
   secretary—
      community mental health services annual budget, 722
      mental retardation services: powers and duties. 1471, 1594
      out-of-home nonmedical care facility services and medical care facility services:
               integration plan, 21
      public assistance recipients' nonmedical protective living arrangements, 660
      welfare management information systems : powers and duties, 1418
HUMAN R E S O U R C E S D E V E L O P M E N T , D I R E C T O R O F : vocational education,
               1555
H U M B O L D T C O U N T Y : certain officers: salary, 1410
H U S B A N D AND W I P E
  artificial insemination, 1615
  community property. See COMMUNITY P R O P E R T Y .
  family law act, 1608
  Indian marriage by tribal, etc., custom, 120, 1607
  residency : voting purposes, 461
H Y P O D E R M I C N E E D L E S AND S Y R I N G E S : distributors, 1028

                                             I
I D A H O , S T A T E O F : Pacific marine fisheries compact participation, 361
IDENTIFICATION
   cards—
      disabled persons, 349
      expiration, 1143
                                       INDEX                                     443
       motor vehicle department, 1143, 1340
       school employees, 685
       unlawful use : misdemeanor, 9
    cattle, 730
    dog act of 1969, 1393
    hides, 730
    informants, 1412
    interstate highway carriers, 1279
    investigators and adjusters, private, 681
    mental patients, 1119
    peace officers, 1458
    poultry and poultry products, 1403
    prison, jail, etc., admission, 424
    snowmobiles, 1075
    stray cattle. 743
 I M M I G R A T I O N , 327, 38',
 I M P E R I A L COTTNTY: Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
 I M P E R I A L VALLEY W A R 5 I W A T E E H A T C H E R Y , 1244
I M P O R T A T I O N . 403, 975. 1241
 IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
    California water districts, 1085
    Kern Delta water district, 1085
    municipal water districts, 708
    Riverside County flood control and water conservation district, 198
    sewer acquisition, etc.: special rates or charges, 881
INCOME T A X
    federal—
      bonds, government, 27Z
      homeowners' property tax rebate : exclusion, 171
    personal income tax—
      airport relocation and development dislocation allowances, 1228
      corporation: definition, 1320
      credits, 911, 1464
      interest: information returns, 980
      late filing. 980
      lien on personal property, 915
      married taxpayers returns, 980
      refunds, 911, 980
      reorganization: definition and tax treatment, 1606
      residence sale : deferral of gain. 980
      r e t u r n s : disclosure of information, 980
      self-employed persons' retirement plans, 1607
      student dependents: credits and deductions, 980
I N D E C E N T EXPOSITRE. See O B S C E N I T Y .
I N D E M N I F I C A T I O N . 704. 1111, 1390, 1431, 1525
I N D E P E N D E N T C O L L E G E M O N T H . 303
I N D E P E N D E N T O R D E R O F ODD F E L L O W S W E E K , 142
INDIANS
   California I n d i a n s : federal programs, 374
   California I n d i a n s : public assistance. 1377
   federal programs: full participation by California Indians, 374
   health programs, 1380
   history and culture: courses and research projects, 376
   marriages by tribal, etc.. custom, 120, 1607
   public social services, 1377
    Sherman I n s t i t u t e : federal emergency appropriations, 271
   Washoe Tndian Tribe; lands, 270
I N D I G E N T P E R S O N S : legal counsel, r 690, 957, 1514
INDOOR S P O R T S CLTIB W E E K . 20. ,
INDTTSTRTAL F A R M S OR ROAD CAMI'S, 380, 424
I N D U S T R I A L LOAN C O M P A N I E S . 225, 873
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS, DEPARTMENT OF
   director—
      apprenticeship council members' per diem allowances: approval, 460
      apprenticeship council members' salaries: approval, 1360
      pilblic works: prevailing per diem wage rates : determination, 301
   human relations agency, inclusion in, 138
   industrial safety board: meetings, 1387
   industrial safety, division of: crane boomstop standards, 683
   industrial welfare commission, 460, 1218
   industrial welfare, division of: services to industrial welfare commission, 1218
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 444                                        INDEX

  I N D U S T R I A L S A F E T Y BOARD, 1387
  I N D U S T R I A L S A F E T Y W E E K , 23
  I N D U S T R I A L W E L F A R E COMMISSION, 460, 1218
  INDUSTRY
       economic climate, California, 90
       educational-objectives manpower needs: coordination, 816
       Industrial Safety Week, 23
       Value Engineering Week, 1)8
       Vocational Industrial Clubs of America Week, California, 133
       Zero Defects Week, J/5
  I N D U S T R Y AND W O R L D T R A D E COMMISSION, C A L I F O R N I A , 1161
 INFORMATION, DISCLOSURE OF
      corporations, domestic, 1159
      county employees' retirement system members' records, etc., 239
      income tax records, 980
      injurious material reports, 1169
      mentally ill or mentally disordered persons' detention or treatment records, 722
      mentally ill persons subject to firearms restrictions, 1119
      notaries public: secretary of state's records re, 1313
      public officers and employees: financial interests and political contributions, 1512
      retail credit sales and accounts, 625
 INFORMATION, DISSEMINATION OF
      dropout prevention programs, 1501
      fair employment practices commission, state, 1063
      narcotics and dangerous drugs : federal laws, 160
      prophylactics, 1435
 I N F R A C T I O N S , 528
 I N G L E W O O D , CITY O F : charter amendments, 31
 I N H E R I T A N C E TAX, 1200
 I N I T I A T I V E AND R E F E R E N D U M , 106, 511, 774, 835, 940
 INJUNCTIONS
      bonds, deposits, or undertakings re, 141
      contractors' violations, 698
      gambling places, 262
      healing arts practitioners' fee violations, 1158
     home improvement contractors, 1583
     Lake Tahoe water quality control violations, 1356
     meetings, open and public, 494
     optometry law violations, 640
     pet food violations, 1241
     radioactive contamination, 666
     unsolicited merchandise billing, 265, 400
I N N S : rates and charges, 826
I N S A N I T Y . See M E N T A L L Y D I S O R D E R E D P E R S O N S ; M E N T A L L Y I L L
                 PERSONS.
INSOLVENCY
     collection agencies, 930
     insurers, 1055, 1243, 1347
INSPECTION
    assembly, places of, 919
    bank and corporation tax returns and reports, 603
    cattle, 730, 743
    cattle brands, 711
    cemetery authority's endowment care fund transaction report, 983
    dead hauler trucks and premises, 815
    forest area structures, 688
    health facility construction projects, 970
    hides and carcasses, 711, 730
    horsemeat. 815
    injurious materials records, 1169
    juvenile detention facilities, 1001
    laboratories, 1421
    milk and milk products, 1341
    motor vehicles, 517
    offshore oil operations, 179, 365
    oil and gas operators' production reports, 553
    pet food manufacturing facilities, 1241
    poultry and poultry products, 1403
   radiologic technology schools, 1504
   school buildings : earthquake safety, 1523
   schoolbuses, 580
   slaughterhouses, 815
   wild animals and birds, 975
                                         INDEX                                          445
I N S T I T U T I O N S , STATE, 765, 263
INSURANCE
   agents, brokers and solicitors—
       certificates of convenience, 220, 858
       countersignature or approval of insurance contracts, 506
       licenses, 220, 443, 858, 981, 1066
       life insurance agents : licenses, 443
       motor club agents, 858
      premium finance agreements, 873
       rebates, 244
       reciprocal or interinsurance exchanges, 103
      return premiums : offset, 320
   air travel insurance: school emploj'ees, etc., 938
   annuities, 516, 801, 864, 1574
   assigned risks, 103, 649, 1237
   attorneys-in-fact: reciprocal or interinsurance exchanges, 103, 559
   automobiles. See subheading, motor vehicles, below,
   binders: inception, 859
   bridge and highway districts, 366
   cancellation, 104, 536, 620, 1081
   certificates of authority, 464, 559, 867, 878
   claims, 579, 668, 705, 1347, 1353
   commissioner—
      assigned risk a r e a s : designation, 649
      brush hazard area voluntary insurance, 649
      certificates of authority, 867, 878
      compensation insurance, official action re, 559
      fees, 559, 981
      holding company system: regulation, etc., 1275
      insolvent insurers' reinsurance: duties, 1055
      insurance guarantee association, California: duties, etc., 1347
      insurers' violations : penalties, 1066
      investigations, 819
      motor clubs: powers and duties, 858
      policy inception, 859
      property insurance: brush hazard areas, 1237
      property insurance: fair plan areas, 1081
      reserves: regulation, 705
      riot and civil disorders insurance association, California: approval, etc., 649
      subpoena duces tecum : powers, 819
      withdrawal procedures, 1055
   contracts: countersignature or approval requirements : deletion, 506
   credit life and disability insurance, 422
   department: inclusion in business and transportation agency, 138
   disability insurance—
      coverage schedule or description requirement, 1569
      credit disability insurance, 422
      group insurance : blanket insurance, 323
      insolvency provisions, 1243
      psychological expenses, 296
      standard provisions : applicability, 323
   discriminatory practices : prohibition, 620
   flood insurance, 1115
   group insurance—
      bridge and highway district employees, 366
      disability, 323, 422, 993
      life insurance—
          assignee : rights of conversion, 644
          conversion rights, 644
          state college employees, 993
      public agency employees' dependents, 1029
      school district employees, 821
      state college employees, 993
   health and accident insurance: public employees' dependents, 1029
   health facility construction loan insurance, 970
   health insurance, 1369, 1569
   holding company system regulatory act, 1275
   insolvency insurance, 1347
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics,
446                                     INDEX

INSURANCE—Continued
   insurers—
        assigned risk, 649
       brush hazard areas, 649, 1237
       California insurance guarantee association, 1347
        cancellation of insurance for nonpayment of premium, 536
       certificates of authority, 867, 878
       disability insurers, 620, 1243
       domestic : foreign regulation, 867
       domestic : holding company system regulatory act, 1275
       false rumors re financial condition, etc., 839
       insolvency, 1055, 1243, 1347
       liability insurers: advance or partial injury payments: notices, 1261
       life insurers : discriminatory practices : prohibition, 620
       Medi-Cal carriers, 880
       mergers or consolidations, 1055, 1275
       motor vehicle insurers—
          premium rate increase, 1517
           uninsured motorist coverage: deletion, 1353 ,
       motor vehicle liability: exclusion of named person or persons from coverage, 471
       mutual insurers, 49
       reciprocal or interinsurance exchanges, 103, 559, 649
       reserves, 705
       riot and civil disorders insurance association, California, 649
       taxation. See TAXATION—state.
       underwriting restriction nonviolation statements, 506
      violations, 1066
       workmen's compensation, 1062
  liability insurance : carriers, 823, 1279
  licenses, permits, etc.—
      agents, brokers and solicitors, 220, 443, 858, 981, 1066
      insurers, 867, 878
      rating organizations, 559
  life insurance, 422, 516, 801, 864, 1574
  motor clubs, 858
  motor vehicles—
      assigned risks, 103
      liability insurance—
          dual coverage, 965
          exclusion of named person or persons from coverage, 471
          lessors or renters: dual coverage, 965
          nonrenewal notices, 227
          uninsured motorist, 579, 668, 1353
      medical payments coverage, 1353
      motorcycles: cancellation, 104
     premium rate increase, 1517
 National Insurance Women's Week, 110
 ocean marine insurance, 860
 offshore oil pollution damage, 365
 policies—
     cancellation or nonrenewal, 104, 1081
     coverage period, 859
     disability insurance, 1569
     fire policies: countersignature provisions, 506
     health insurance, 1569
     motor vehicle liability insurance: dual coverage, 965
     premium receipt acknowledgment: effect on cancellation for premium nonpay-
               ment, 536
 premiums—
     finance agencies. 873
    life insurance, 1574
    motor vehicle insurance, 1517
    rate increase, 1517
    return premiums : offset, 320
    unpaid : cancellation of policy, 536
    unpaid : offset against return premiums, 320
 property—
    assigned risks, 649
    bridge and highway districts, 366
                                        INDEX                                        447
      brush hazard areas, 649, 1237
      cancellation, 1081
      purchase through specified agent, etc., as prerequisite to sale, 302
   rating organizations, 559
   rebates, 244, 1066
   reciprocal or interinsurance exchanges, 103, 559, 649
   reinsurance, 516, 649, 1055, 1243
   reinsured lines : definition, 649
   Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   state college employees, 993
   state hospital sheltered workshop equipment, 722
   taxation. See T A X A T I O N — s t a t e .
   title insurance companies: examination of trust departments, 327
   uninsured motorists. See subheading, motor vehicles—liability         insurance, above.
I N S U R A N C E CODE : codification to maintain code, 105
INTEREST
   annuity or endowment contracts, 1574
   Antelope Valley-East Kern water agency bonds, 449
   Brannan-Andrus levee maintenance district time warrants, 257
   Central Valley Project bonds, 14
   city gas tax street improvement fund deposits, 344
   contractors' securities in escrow, 1496
   correctional institution inmates' funds, 1272
   county road fund deposits, 344
   Crestline-Ivake Arrowhead water agency bonds, 109
   dam or reservoir annual fees: penalty for nonpayment, 363
   Fresno metropolitan flood control district bonds, 769
   hospital district bonds, 600
   improvement bonds, 771
   joint powers agreement revenue bonds, 1303
   junior college revenue bonds, 194
   local agency bonds, 194, 600
   local agency temporary borrowing, 307
   IJOS Angeles County flood control district bonds, 450
   metropolitan water district bonds, 230
   municipal sewer and water facilities bonds, 600
   municipal utility district bonds. 600
   municipal water district bonds, 600, 708
   municipal water district improvement district advances, 708
   parking authority bonds, 430
   pooled money investment account, state, 868
   property taxes, unpaid : judgments, 96
   public securities, 600
   public utility district federal loans, 388
   reclamation district bonds, 194
   recreation and park district bonds, 194
   redevelopment bonds, 600
    San Benito County water conservation and flood control district: intra-district
              zone loans, 89
   sanitary district bonds, 194
   sanitation district, county, disaster loans, 419
    Santa Barbara County flood control and water conservation district, 258
    Santa Clara County transit district bonds, 180
    savings and loan withdrawable shares, 179
   school district bonds. 600, 1174
    Sonoma County water agency bonds, 656
   state bond anticipation notes, 740, 741
    state college revenue bond anticipation notes and revenue bonds, 1100
   state general obligation bonds, 740. 741, 299
   state hospital inmates' funds, 1272
    state property assessments, 1219
    Stockton port district bonds, 280
    street improvement assessments: public property, 513
    street improvement bonds, 770
    Sweetwater River flood control project loan, 1245
    vehicle parking district bonds, 487
    veterans' bonds, 1252, 326
    water conservation district promissory notes, 414
    water storage districts, California, 1086
    youth authority parolees' funds, 1272
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in iialics.
448                                       INDEX

I N T E R G O V E R N M E N T A L R E L A T I O N S , COUNCIL ON, 138
I N T E R G O V E R N M E N T A L W E L F A R E M A N A G E M E N T AND I N F O R M A T I O N
                S Y S T E M S ACT O F 1969, 1418
I N T E R N A T I O N A L T O A S T M I S T R E S S W E E K , 51
I N T E R N A T I O N A L W A N T A D W E E K , 106
I N T E R S T A T E COMPACTS : compact for education, 1538
I N T E R S T A T E H I G H W A Y C A R R I E R S ' R E G I S T R A T I O N ACT, 1279
I N T O X I C A T I O N : pedestrians, 207
I N V E N T O R I E S : business inventories : taxation, 671
I N V E S T I N A M E R I C A W E E K , 8i
INVESTIGATIONS
   abandoned vessels, 764
   cemetery authorities endowment care transactions, 983
   charitable trusts, 490
   commodity advisers law violations, 1305
   contractors' financial solvency, 735
   court investigative staff, 944
   engineers' act violations, 1204
   genocide telephone campaigns, 3^2
   grand juries, 931
   insurance commissioner, 819
   Medi-Cal providers, 1386
   misdemeanor arrests, 1259
   motor vehicle violations, 833
   National Guard aircraft accidents, 1267
   organized crime, 1357
    Salton Sea preservation, 883
   tear gas weapons, 1231
I N V E S T I G A T O R S AND A D J U S T E R S , P R I V A T E , 681, 1183
I N V E S T M E N T , D E P A R T M E N T O F : name change, 138
INVESTMENTS
   advisers: commodity advisers law applicability, 1305
    banks. See BANKS AND BANKING.
    business investment companies, 892
    cemetery endowment care funds, 983
    city special gas tax street improvement funds, 344
    correctional institution inmates' funds, 1272
    county road funds, 344
    county special services contracts, 354
    disability fund, state, 829
    housing authority pension trust funds, 1029
    insurers, 1275
    Invest in America Week, 84
    public officers and employees: conflicts of interest, 1512
    retirement funds, 328, 221
   San Francisco-Oakland rapid transit tube construction funds, certain, 24
    savings and loan associations. See SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS.
   state hospital patients' funds, 1272
INYO COUNTY : certain officers: salary, 1410
I R R I G A T I O N : New Melones dam and reservoir, 251
IRRIGATION DISTRICTS
   assessments, 63, 533
   Camp F a r West irrigation district, 152
   electric service, 1374
   Montague water conservation district, 496
   open space lands, 1046
   park and recreation leases, 1046
   recreational facilities, 533
   tax s-ales : unpaid assessments, 63
   tax-deeded property. 1346
I T A L I A N - A M E R I C A N F E D E R A T I O N O F C A L I F O R N I A , INC., 182

                                             J
.TAILS
  classes conducted at, 35
  clerks : arrest warrant execution, 478
  fraudulent entry, 424
  inmates : confinement reduction, 380
  inspection, 1001
  juvenile detention facilities : inspection, 1001
  m a t r o n : elimination, 643
                                               INDEX                                             449

  J A P A N E S E I M M I G R A T I O N TO U N I T E D S T A T E S : centennial celebration,
                18, 63
  J O B D E V E L O P M E N T C O R P O R A T I O N S , 208
  J O B T R A I N I N G , 1505
 J O B T R A I N I N G AND D E V E L O P M E N T , D I V I S I O N O F : name change, 1068
  J O B T R A I N I N G , D E V E L O P M E N T , A N D P L A C E M E N T , D I V I S I O N O F , 1068
 J O H N S O N , L E I F , 2S7
 J O I N T P O W E R S A G R E E M E N T S . See LOCAL G O V E R N M E N T A L A G E N -
                CIES—joint eirercise of powers.
 J U D G E S AND J U S T I C E S
     appellate courts. See subheading, courts of appeal, below,
     courts of appeal—
        habeas corpus writs issued b y : return, 38
        San Bernardino, 1487
        San Diego, 1487
     disqualification, 446
     election, 1469
     justice courts, 9, 360, 780
     municipal courts—
        findings and conclusions, 339
        infraction bail schedule, 9
       Long Beach, 1477
       Newhall, 1602
        Orange County, 1490
       Pomona. 1490, 1602
       River judicial district, 1491
        Sacramento, 1490
       salary increase, 1507
        San Bernardino County, 842
       San Leandro-Hayward iudicial district, 1490
        Santa Monica, 1490, 1602
     preliminary examination transcripts, criminal cases: availability, 118
    retirement. See J U D G E S ' R E T I R E M E N T L A W .
    superior courts—•
       Alameda County, 1486
       Contra Costa County, 1491
       habeas corpus writs issued by : return, 38
       juvenile justice commissions: appointment, 310
       Orange County, 1485
       salary increase, 1507
       San Diego County, 1490
       Santa Barbara County, 1480
       Santa Clara County, 1482
    supreme court—-
       habeas corpus writs issued by : return, 38
       salary increase, 1507
JUDGES' R E T I R E M E N T LAW
    benefits—
       disability: increase, 964
       retirement allowances, 203
       survivors' benefits, 166
    contributions: members, 470
    fund : deposit: additional court filing fees, 1499
    members: death prior to age 6 5 : distribution of contributions, 470
    members : survivors' benefits election, 166
JUDGMENTS
    compromise settlements, 570
    default judgments, 345, 567, 1610, 1611
    districts' obligations to judgment debtor : claims against, 154
    enforcement: effect of bankruptcy, 902
    justice court abstracts: fees, 70
    probation report evaluation prior to, 522
    process fees, 822
    property taxes, unpaid : interest, 96
    restraining orders, e t c : bonds, undertakings, or deposits r e : liability enforcement;
               141
    uninsured motorist arbitration award : effect, 579
    unlawful detainer : enforcement, 480
    vacation: jurisdiction, 773
J U D I C I A L COUNCIL, 958, 1608
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.

    15—L-2180
450                                     INDEX

J U D I C I A L R E V I E W , 918, 1347
J U N I O R A C H I E V E M E N T W E E K , 17
J U N I O R B O W L I N G MONTH, %lf1
J U N I O R C O L L E G E S . See also COMMUNITY COLLEGES, C A L I F O R N I A ,
   adult classes, 961
   apportionments, 784                                                          /
   attendance—
       police training courses, 716
       summer school, 1391
       work experience education programs, 1009
   buildings, 385, 1076
   campus disorders, 1122, 1424, 1427, 306
   chancellor: apprenticeship council: membership, 1360
   college opportunity grants, 1258
   construction, 1166, 1481
   contracts: legal services, 1203
   contracts: physically handicapped minors: education, 837
   counselors: credentials, 961
   credentials: certain personnel, 961
   districts—
       construction costs, 1481
       formation, 791, 1166
       initial equipment of buildings and facilities, 1076
       organization proposals, 1148
       parking violation fines, 742
       real property exchanges, 274
       revolving cash fund, 844
       San Mateo junior college district, 385
       territory transfers, 830
   elections: governing board members, 3
   employees—
       academic employees—
           adult education teachers, 961
           campus disorders participation: disciplinary measures, 1427 '
           credentials, 961
           leaves of absence, 1127
           post-sabbatical leave service, 72
           salary schedule, 1314
           temporary employees, 1127
           t e n u r e : study, etc., re rules, H6
      administrative employees—
           campus disorders participation: disciplinary measures, 1427
          credentials, 961
      counselors: credentials, 961
      minimum educational and work experience requirements, 1077
      supervisory employees: credentials, 961
      unauthorized entry to campus after suspension or dismissal, 1424
  equipment, 591, 1076
  ejxtended opportunity programs and services, 1579
  federal program participation, 882
  governing boards—
      administrative and supervisory positions: establishment, 961
     certification documents: powers and duties, 961
     common governing board with unified school district: assets and liabilities, 1166
     Indian history and culture courses and research projects, 316
     legal services, private: contracts, 1203
     meetings, 623
     members: common governing board with unified district, 733
     members: election, 3
     members: high school district governing board: dual membership, 495
     powers and duties, generally, 1026
     secretary: duties re organizational meetings, 623
     territory transfers: powers and duties, 830
     unified district, common governing board w i t h : members, 733
 interdistrict attendance agreements, 591
 librarians: credentials, 961
 p a r k i n g : violations, 742
 physical violence against students or teachers, 1122
 physically handicapped minors' education, 837
                                          INDEX                                          451

   police training courses, 716
   presidents: campus disorders: powers and duties, 1427
   propaganda and organizational solicitations, 1530
   revenue bond act of 1 9 6 1 : interest rate, 194
   San Mateo junior college district: science building and physical education facility,
               385
   sectarian, partisan, etc., publications: issuance and distribution, 1530
   Skyline College, 385
   student personnel workers: credentials, 961
   Students—
      campus disorders participation : effect, 1427
      college opportunity grants, 1258
      new careers in education program: participation, 1453
      physically handicapped minors, 837
      police training courses, 716
      records: availability, 1465
      rules of student conduct, 1427
      state aid : campus disorders participation : effect, 1427
      state college admission : preference, 300
      unauthorized entry to campus after suspension or dismissal, 1424
      visually handicapped : teaching materials, etc., 1147
   summer school: attendance credit, 1391
   taxation, 591
   tenure. See subheading employees—academic employees, above,
   vocational education programs, 953
   work experience education programs, 1009
J U R I E S AND J U R O R S
- coroners' juries, 1220
   criminal cases, 520
   grand juries—
      Alameda County, 190
      cemetery authorities' endowment care funds: duties, 983
      districts' performance of duties: investigation, 931
      fees, 1410
      selection list: supervisorial district inclusion, 64
   jury commissioners, 40
   justice courts: jurors' fees, 350
   trial juries : fees, 1410
JUSTICE, DEPARTMENT OF
   criminal statistics, bureau of: justifiable homicide reports, 1089
   enforcement personnel: workmen's compensation, 1402
   personnel, certain : concealed firearms, 1012
J U V E N I L E COURTS
   calendar precedence: hearings re dependent child of court, 185
   clerks: petition and hearing notice: service, 664
   confinement facilities : inspection, 1001
   delinquency prevention programs, 1425
   fugitives, out-of-state : procedure, 1011
   incorrigibles: state prison terms, 924
    juvenile justice commissions, 310
    mentally ill or mentally disordered minors: procedure, 722
   motor vehicle violations: speed contests, 1167
   narcotics, marijuana, etc., offenses: driver's license suspension, 519
   petitions: filing time, 1008
   petitions: service, 664
   service of petition and hearing notice, 664
    truancy petitions, 992
   ward or dependent child—
       detention, 260
       firefighting: limitations, 590
       hearings: calendar precedence, 185
       support payments, 437
       work furlough programs, local, 585
      youth correctional center commitment, 1193
   youth authority commitments, 785
   youth correctional center commitments, 1193
J U V E N I L E H A L L S , 910, 1001, 1240
J U V E N I L E H O M E S , R A N C H E S OR C A M P S : inmates' fire suppression activities,
               590
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
452                                           INDEX

                                                 K
K E E P C A L I F O R N I A G R E E N M O N T H , 319
K E N N E L S : abandoned animals, etc., 1138
K E R L I N , W I L L I A M A., Ill
K E R N COUNTY
   Buena Vista aquatic recreation area project, 1235
   officers, certain: salary, 1410
K I N G S COUNTY : certain officers : salary. 1410
K N I G H T S L A N D I N G R I D G E D R A I N A G E D I S T R I C T , 25T
K N O W YOUR COUNTY G O V E R N M E N T W E E K , 138

                                                 L
LA F I E S T A D E LAS ROSAS, 57
LABELS, MARKS, ETC.
   blasting caps, etc., 568
   dangerous drugs, 147
   drugs, 147, 1522
   fair packaging and labeling act, 1309
   horsemeat, 815
   olive oil, blended, 659
   paint, lead-based, 271
   pesticides, 1413
   pet food, 815, 1241
   plums, 278
   poultry and poultry products, 1403
   prescriptions, 147
   prunes, 278
   television picture tubes, color, 694
LABOR
   agricultural workers, 420, 1094, 1539, 1578
   apprentices. See A P P R E N T I C E S .
   commissioner : wage claim assignments, 1529
   day labor: school building repairs, etc., 1145
   economic development, contributions t o : inclusion in social sciences instruction,
              971
   employment papers : availability to employee or applicant, 714
   prisoners, 263
   public works. See P U B L I C W O R K S .
LABOR CODE
   codification to maintain code, 213
   technical amendments, 313, 639
LABORATORIES
   blood alcohol tests, 1421
   clinical: bioanalysts and technologists, 608, 1328
   clinical: license fees, 1328
   licenses, 1421
   poultry and animal diagnostic laboratories, 662
L A K E T A H O E , 800, 1222, 1356
L A K E S : pollution, 79
L A N D C O N S E R V A T I O N ACT O F 1965, C A L I F O R N I A . See also O P E N
              S P A C E LANDS.
  conflicts of interest: public officers and employees, 825
   revision, generally, 1372
L A N D S U R V E Y O R W E E K , 21,0
L A N D L O R D AND T E N A N T
  forcible entry actions, 903
  mobilehome park tenancy: termination, 1500
  month to month tenancy : termination, 442
  unlawful detainer, 480, 903
LANDS, PUBLIC
  cities: land acquired for streets: disposition, 665
  counties—
      Orange County : land exchange, 985
      sales, 897
      surveys, 1121
  exchanges : Orange County, 985
  federal: grazing fees, 82
  irrigation districts: open space lands, 1046
  open space lands, 1046
                                          INDEX                                        453
   Point Keyes National Seashore, 373
    recreation, etc., land appropriated for, 357
    redevelopment areas : reimbursement, 95
    San Francisco harbor, 1296
   state. See LANDS, S T A T E ,
   street improvement assessments, 51JJ
LANDS, S T A T E
    assessments, 1219
   Commission—
      Bolinas Bay lands improvement, etc., p l a n s : duties, 787
       county surveys: contest, 1121
       Lake Tahoe beaches: duties, 1222
       leases and surveys : duties, 1238
       meetings: constitutional officers' representation, 1613
       Monterey County tidelands: duties, 1430
      oil and gas leases: prohibitions, 1426
       reorganization plan, governor's : effect, 1593
       sales or exchanges: modification of state's mineral rights, 1014
       San Francisco harbor commission obligations, etc.: powers and duties, 1400
       Santa Cruz City tidelands: duties, 1291
       Santa Cruz County tidelands: duties, 1430
       transfer to department of conservation, 138
      Ventura County tidelands: powers, etc., 1044
   disposition of certain, 1024
   division of state lands, 138
   exchanges, 985
   Fresno state college property: quitclaim to City of Fresno, 1515
   grants to settlers, 263
   highway lands : sale of excess, 1186
   Hyde Street, San Francisco, property: transfer to University of California, 797
  leases : highway lands, 1054
   Los Angeles County, 950
   Millbrae, City of, transfer to, 378
   mosquito abatement and control, 288
   Puddingstone state recreation a r e a : grant, 1273
  rights-of-way, 1475
   Sacramento County fairgrounds property: quitclaim to City of Gait, 1488
   Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, 1447
   San Fernando state hospital property, 950
   San Luis Obispo: sale of certain land, 657
  settlers' grants, 854
   state polytechnic college property: sale, 750
   tide and submerged lands—
      Bolinas harbor district, 787
      geological or geophysical surveys, 1430
      leases, 1430
      Marin County, 1375
      Monterey County, 1430
      oil and gas leases, 1426
      Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, 1447
      San Francisco, 1367, 1474
      Santa Barbara County, 648
      Santa Cruz County, 1291, 1430
      Ventura County, 1044
   transfers, 1129
   uses, automatic inventory, etc.: study, 370
L A N D S C A P E A R C H I T E C T S , 1304
L A N D S C A P I N G , 407, 317
L A N D S L I D E S , 419
L A N T E R M A N M E N T A L R E T A R D A T I O N S E R V I C E S A C T O F 1969, 1594
L A N T E R M A N - P E T R I S - S H O R T ACT : revision, 722
L A S S E N COUNTY : certain officers, 1410
L A W AND MORALITY W E E K , 27b
LAW DAY, U. S. A., 116
LAW E N F O R C E M E N T A G E N C I E S
   accident reports, motor vehicle, 19
  blood alcohol tests, 1421
  firearms disposition, 401, 789
  members: motorcycle drivers' licenses, 58
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
454                                      INDEX

LAW R E V I S I O N COMMISSION, C A L I F O R N I A , %U
L A W SCHOOLS. See U N I V E R S I T I E S A N D C O L L E G E S ; U N I V E R S I T Y O F
                CALIFORNIA.
L A W N D A L E E L E M E N T A R Y SCHOOL D I S T R I C T , 23
LEASES
   carriers, generally: surety bonds, 173
   condominiums, 275                                                                    ,
   counties : data processing equipment, 463
   county property : medical or dental schools, 1090
   county theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
   estate property, 596
   Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 888
   Hastings College of Law property, 797
   highway land, 1054
   highway rights-of-way, 1327, 1475
   irrigation district property, 1046
   joint powers agreement agencies, 966
   medical or dental schools, 1090
   motor vehicles, 1208
   oil and gas, 1426
   real property: month to month tenancy, 442
   sales and use tax, 710
   San Francisco harbor, 1296, 1400
   San Francisco state college downtown center property, 1097
   Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district, 92
   savings and loan associations, 1342
   school districts: motor vehicles, equipment, etc., 1178
   s t a t e agencies, 1030, 1046
   state property, 408, 1238
   tide and submerged lands, 1430
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
   junior college academic employees, 1127
   law enforcement personnel, 1402
   mentally ill persons, 722, 863
   school district certificated employees, 1395, 1493, 821
   school district classified employees, 1493
   state officers and employees, 277
L E G I S L A T I V E ADVOCATES, 606
L E G I S L A T I V E ANALYST
   ballot measures : analysis, 1383
   children's center program financing and cost analysis, etc., 347
   innovative schools program report, 1493
   Medi-Cal intermediate care facility program study, 330
   school certificated employees' sabbatical leaves: study, 321
   school district tax use control, plan to establish, 784
   state college expenditures and appropriations comparison: duties, 1405
L E G I S L A T I V E C O M M I T T E E S . See LEGISLATURE—committees.
LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL
   bill drafts requested after March 28, 1969: procedure, S3
  governor's reorganization plans—
       cannery inspection board : omission, 1031
       drafting assistance and digest, 1423
       lands commission, s t a t e : effect, 1593
       marine research committee: effect, 1593, 1614
       new car dealers policy and appeals board: omission, 1031
       opinions, 226
  selection, 33
LEGISLATORS' RETIREMENT SYSTEM
  benefits—
       retirement allowance: increase, 776
       survivors allowances, 929
  contributions: members: redeposit, 1549
  members—
       chief clerk of assembly, 193
       elective constitutional officers: retirement allowance, 776
       retirement: effect of reapportionment, 929
       secretary of senate, 193
      sergeants at arms of senate and assembly, 193
       withdrawal of contributions: redeposit, 1549
                                        INDEX                                        455

LEGISLATURE
 adjournment sine die, 397
 appropriations—
    contingent funds—
       American Revolution bicentennial, joint interim committee on, 391
       atomic development and space, joint committee on, 383
       audit committee, joint, 283
       budget committee, joint, 192
       constitution revision commission, 390
       ethics commitee, joint, 387
       fairs allocation and classification committee, 367
       higher education, joint committee on, 56
       legislative organization, joint committee on, 390
       public domain, joint committee on, 370
       public schools of California: evaluation s t u d y : joint committee expenses, 33/f
       reorganization of large urban school districts, joint committee on, 290
       retirement committee, joint, 233
       seismic safety, joint committee on, 378
       teacher licensing and public school employment, joint committee on, 26
  approval: parking structure construction, 408
  assembly—
    chief clerk: retirement system membership, 193
    members: teacher licensing and public school employment, joint committee oil:
             membership, 26
    speaker—
       appointments—
          educational research commission members, 1493
          extended opportunity programs and services, advisory committee: members,
             1579
          higher education, joint committee on, certain members, 56
          mental retardation program advisory board, s t a t e : certain member, 1594
          reorganization of large urban unified school districts, joint committee o n :
             members, 290
          Southern California transportation study commission: assembly member,
             1547
  bills-
    carryover from odd to even numbered years : feasibility study, 119
    introduction after April 8, 1969: restrictions, 53
  committees—
    American Revolution bicentennial joint interim committee, 391
    atomic development and space, joint committee on : continuation, 333
    audit committee, joint—
       children's center program financing and cost analysis, etc., 3^7
       educational television: cost effectiveness determination, 368
       expenses, 283
    Bay Area regional organization, joint committee o n : continuance, 128, 3£6
    budget committee, joint—
       children's Center program financing and cost analysis, etc., 3^7
       college campus disturbances control costs : state subventions : study, 306*
       compensatory education and educational improvement programs ^ fiscal review
             and analysis, 784
       county superintendents of schools, office of: study, etc., 784
       expenses, 192
       Medi-Cal intermediate care facility program study, 330
       property tax exemptions : homes for aged: study, 266
       state college budgetary procedures, 389
     education committee, assembly—
        public schools of California : evaluation study, 335
        school fund appropriation bills: duties, 325
     education committee, senate—
       public schools of California : evaluation study, 335
        school fund appropriation bills : duties, 325
     fairs allocation and classification committee—
        appropriation, 367
        local fairs : duties, 1293
     higher education, joint committee on—
     * continued existence, 3^8
        creation, etc., 56
        small college and university campuses: increase: feasibility study, 8^1
     legislative advocates, powers and duties re, 606
     legislative building space needs, joint committee o n : continued existence, 89
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
456                                     INDEX

LEGISLATURE—Continued
   committees—continued
     legislative ethics, joint committee o n : appropriation, 387
     legislative organization, joint committee on—
        carryover of bills: feasibility study, 119
        constitution revision commission : expenses and continued existence, 390
        legislative assistance, subcommittee on, 156
        souvenirs of state capitol building : sale, 370
     national tax policy, joint committee on, 886
     penal code, revision of, joint legislative investigating committee for: advisory
              board members, etc., 1032
     public domain, joint committee o n : continued existence, etc., 370
      public school employment, joint committee on: availability of unencumbered and
              unexpended funds, 26
      reorganization of large urban school districts, joint committee on: creation,
               etc., 290                   .
      retirement committee, joint legislative: advisory committee : termination, 79
      retirement committee, joint legislative: expenses, 233
     rules, senate committee on—
         appointments—
           educational research commission members, 1493
           extended opportunity programs and services advisory committee: members,
               1579
           higher education, joint committee on : certain members, 56
           mental retardation program advisory board : certain member, 1594
           reorganization of large urban unified school districts, joint committee o n :
               members, 290
           Southern California transportation study commission: senate member, 1547
      seismic safety, joint committee on : creation, etc., 378
      teacher credentialing practices, joint committee o n : availability of unencum-
               bered and unexpended funds, 26
      teacher licensing and public school employment, joint committee o n : crea-
               tion, 26
      water resources: Eel River Basin alternative studies: hearings, 273
      water supply contracts: recommendations, 298
   contingent fund of senate and assembly. See subheading,            appropriations—con-
               tingent funds, above,
   education, compact for.: state's participation: review, 1538
   employees: conflicts of interest, 1512
   members—
      conflicts of interest, 1512
      executive salaries, committee o n : membership, 1599
      leaves of absence, 277
      legislative assistance, subcommittee o n : membership, 156
      master teacher selection committee : membership, 1617
      meetings : open and public, 343
      salary increase, 1580
      vocational education and technical training, California advisory council o n ;
               membership, 1555
   powers—
      bonds, general obligation: interest rate increase, 299
      constitutional amendments or revisions, 331, 3^0
      governor's reorganization plans: delay for study, 1423
      veterans' bonds interest rate adjustment, 326
   recess: constitutional recess, 359
   recess: March 28-April 7, 1969, 53
   rules: joint rules : adoption, 352
   senate—
      contingent fund. See subheading, appropriations—contingent      funds, above,
      secretary: retirement system membership, 193
   sergeants at a r m s : retirement system membership, 193
   sessions : 1969 regular session : adjournment sine die, 397
   unauthorized entry or presence, etc., to chambers, 1528
L E T T U C E , 633
L E V E E D I S T R I C T S , 257
L E V E E S : Sacramento-San Joaquin delta, 297
LIABILITY
   automobile liability insurance nonrenewal notices, statements in, 227
   baggage loss or damage, 982
   boa;t owners, certain, 406
   carriers, common : baggage loss or damage, 982
   cattle, stray : certain expenses, 743
                                         INDEX                                       457

   credit card holders, 904
   drycleaning business or equipment seller, 394
   emergency medical care, 989
   false arrest or false imprisonment, 1205
   healing arts practitioners : emergency medical care, 989
   hospitals. See H O S P I T A L S .
   insurance guarantee association, California, 1347
   lenders' liability, 1584
   local agencies': emergency flood relief work damage, 52
   mental patients' care during leave of absence, 863
  personal injury claims: Medi-Cal recipients, 1420
  pesticide use, 1413
   pharmaceutic organization members, 264
   physicians and surgeons. See P H Y S I C I A N S A N D S U R G E O N S .
  podiatric organization members, 264
  public officers and employees, arrests by, 1205
  public property damage or destruction, 1324
  public utility property damage, 709
  rescue teams, 573
  restraining orders, temporary or preliminary injunctions: issuance, 141
  school district loan vehicles or -equipment, 289
  vessel owners, 758
LIBRARIES
  community recreation centers, 754
  law libraries: trustees, 17
  librarians : junior college librarian : credentials, 961
  National Library Week, 158
  public agencies: school districts' contracts, 535
LICENSES, CERTIFICATES, PERMITS, ETC.
  accountants, certified public, 686
  advertising, outdoor, 1294
  air carriers, passenger, 162, 404
  air pollution control certificates of compliance» 622
  bank places of business, 1280
  bank securities sale, 876
  barbers, 1619
  boats, undocumented: ownership and number certificates, 406, 1354
  building permits: earthquake protection provisions, 1394
  cafe musicians, 969
  children's center employee temporary salary certificates, 389
  city carriers, 57
  cleaning, dyeing and pressing establishments: premises completion certificate, 691
  clinical laboratory bioanalysts and technologists, 1328
  commodity advisers, 1305
  construction permits, 757
  contractors, 761
  corporate name reservation certificate, 322
  cosmetology schools, 569
  dead haulers, 815
  Rental radiographic equipment operation, 1338
  dog licenses, 571
  drilling permits, state tidelands, 1430
  drycleaning operation, 394
  dump truck carriers, 1004
  electrology schools, 569
  embalmers, 284
  employment agencies, private, 12, 755, 1233, 1536
  explosives: receipt and transportation permits, 568
  fictitious business name certificates, 114
  firearms, 1188, 1428
  geological or geophysical survey permits, 1238
  grade and weight certificates, combination, 852
  horsemeat importers, 815
  hospitals and related health facilities, 1451
  hospitals serving Medi-Cal patients, 1452
  household goods carriers, 432
  hypodermic needle or syringe distributors, 1028
  initiative and referendum petition: certificate of sufficiency, 774
  injurious material permits, 1169
  insurance. See I N S U R A N C E .
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
458                                          INDEX

L I C E N S E S , C E R T I F I C A T E S , P E R M I T S , ETC.—Continued
    judgment entry certificate of mailing, 87
    laboratories performing blood alcohol tests, 1421
    landscape architects, 1304
    legislative advocate registration, 606
    lettuce: transportation, etc., permit», 633
    marriage, child and family counselors, 298
    master teachers, 1617
    Medi-Cal providers, 1386
    milk, products resembling, manufacturers of, 634
    mineral, oil and gas brokers, 98
    mobttehome parks, 1553
    motor clubs, 858,
    motor vehicle lamp and brake adjusters, 1064
    motor vehicle pollution control device installers, 1064
    mountain lion hunting, 987
    nurses, 527, 1541, 1542
    nursing home administrators, 31%
    oil cleanup substances, 409
    optometrists, 605
    osteopaths, 1201
    pesticide dealers, 1414
    pet food manufacturers, etc., 815, 1241
    physical therapists, 678
    physicians and surgeons, 336, 765
    podiatrists, 1156
    pomegranates: transportation, 672
    produce dealers and commission merchants, 1105, 1326
    psychiatric technicians, 1073
    psychological corporations, 1436
    psychologists, 1209
    public convenience and necessity certificates, 1345
    public works vehicle permits, 1150
    radiologic technologists, 1504
    real estate brokers or salesmen, 98, 729,1050
    real estate syndicate security sales, etc., 928
    recall petitions: certificate of sufficiency, 774
    Tenderers, 815
    San Francisco Bay water, land or structure changes, 713
    San Francisco harbor lands use, 1296
    sanitarians, 267
    securities broker-dealers, 626
   shorthand reporters, certified, 667
   slaughterers, 815
    tear gas weapons, 1231
    vessel registration certificates of number, 406, 578, 1354
    veterinarians, 718
   vocational nurses, 527
    warehousemen, 392
    water appropriations, 1087,1359
    wild animal and bird importation, 975
   yacht and ship brokers, 1249
LIENS
    improvement act of 1 9 1 1 : bond discharge, 202
    improvement act of 1 9 1 1 : sidewalk and curb construction, 276
    Kern Delta water district, 1085
    Medi-Cal accounts payable, etc., 807
    Medi-Cal benefits, 1420
   motor vehicles: possessory liens, 125
   personal property, 254, 592, 915
   radioactive decontamination expense, 666
    real property, 254, 492, 592,1256
   releases, 592
    tax liens: various state taxes, 915
   vehicles: possessory liens, 125
   warehouseman liens, 843
   water storage districts, California, 1086
L I E U T E N A N T G O V E R N O R : leaves of absence, 277
L I F E P R E S E R V E R S , 146
L I G H T I N G , 184, 766
L I V E R M O R E C E N T E N N I A L C E L E B R A T I O N DAY, 123
                                        INDEX                                        459

L I V E R M O R E VALLEY U N I F I E D S C H O O L D I S T R I C T , 229
LIVESTOCK
   advisory board : cattle fees: recomlnendation, 711
   brucellosis eradication, 304
   cattle, 711, 730, 743, 1525, 92, 252
   dead haulers, 815
   diagnostic services: fees, 662
   feedlots, 743
   hides and carcasses, 711, 730
   in-lieu tax, 1057
   Tenderers, 815
   slaughterers, 815, 1326
LOANS
   banks. See B A N K S AND B A N K I N G .
   construction loans, 1468
   counties—
      community services districts, 340
      sanitation districts, county, disaster damage repair, 419
      sewer maintenance districts, 782
   Crescent City : redevelopment of disaster areas, 1358
   educationally handicapped minors' teachers' specialized preparation, 1198
   health facility construction loan insurance law, California, 970
   lenders' liability, 1584
   San Benito County water conservation and flood control district, 89
   San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district, 24
   San Francisco harbor commission, 1400
   Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   Santa Cruz metropolitan transit district, 195
   savings and loan associations. See SAVINGS AND LOAN A S S O C I A T I O N S ,
   state—•
      airport noise regulation, 1585
      North Tahoe public utility district, 1356
      San Diego County: Sweetwater River flood control project, 1245
      Tahoe City public utility district, 1356
      veterans' farm and home purchases, 1591
LOBBYING, 606
LOCAL AGENCY F O R M A T I O N C O M M I S S I O N S : city boundary changes: duties,
              1301
LOCAL G O V E R N M E N T A L A G E N C I E S
   airport assistance revolving fund aid, 1604
   airport noise regulations: enforcement, 1585
  airport relocation and development: powers and duties, 1228
   aliens, employment of, 473
   assembly, places of: inspection fees, 919
   cargo tanks or tank vehicles, 187
   contracts. See CONTRACTS,
   demographic services, 1013
   disadvantaged persons' entry-level jobs: powers and duties, 1068
   educational objectives and manpower needs : coordination, 316,
   emergency medical services program, 1084
   employee benefits, 1230
   factory-built housing regulation: enforcement, 1422
   ferries : acquisition, etc., 630
   financial reports, l l 7 0
   flood control project planning, 297
   flood or storm relief, 52
   fringe parking facilities, 1051
   funds: deposits, 1483
   health and accident insurance: employees' dependents, 1029
   holidays, 1521
  joint exercise of powers—
      funds: deposit, 375
      governing boards, 966
      regional occupational centers or programs, 1368
      restraint of trade actions, 1234
      revenue bonds, 600, 1303
      San Diego County: Sweetwater River flood control project, 1245
   judgments favoring : process fees, 822
   lease: state highway right-of-way parcels, 1327
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
460                                     INDEX

LOCAL G O V E R N M E N T A L AGENCIES—Continued
    legislative bodies—
       construction project progress payments: withholding percentage, 1439
       improvement bonds, 771
      meetings with state, federal, etc., representatives, 1182
       vehicle parking district bonds, 487
   meetings. See M E E T I N G S ,
   merit systems, federal grant-in-aid programs, 1283
   mobilehome accommodation structures: regulation, 1165
   motor vehicle, removal from highways, etc.: powers and duties, 1229
   ordinances—
      county water district services, 898
      highway regulation, 1365
       motor vehicle parking, etc., on certain streets or highways: restrictions, 541
      parking, 777
      peace officers, 1506, 1511
      violations: arrests, 1205
   p a r k s : state highway lands, 1054
   property damage or destruction: reward for information re, 1324
   public securities: issuance feasibility report, 935
   public utilities: removal or relocation, 1154
   recreational trails, 674
   refuse collection vehicles : weight, 287
   relocation assistance, 1228, 1489
   Santa Clara County transit district: contracts and cooperation, 180
   second validating act of 1969, 748
   speed limits revision, 631
   street improvement assessments: bonds, 770
   tax funds received by state : transmittal, 2
   temporary borrowing : interest, 307
   third validating act of 1969, 749
   through highways: control, 168
   unclaimed money: escheat, 655
   unclaimed property : disposition, 857
   validation procedures, 356
   vehicle identification plates: exemptions, 1242
   water project studies: duties, 906
   yield right of way signs, 834
LODI, CITY O F : 100th anniversary, 324
L O I T E R I N G , 1319
LONG B E A C H , C I T Y O F : charter amendments, 3
LOS A N G E L E S , CITY O F
   agricultural association property maintained as recreational center, 388
   charter amendments, 143, 213
   junior college classified employees: educational and work experience requirements,
                 1077
   Los Angeles international airport, 942
   Lummis Home state historical monument: land transfer, 1276
   mayor: Los Angeles international airport relocation and development: duties, 942
   Olympic Games, 1976 Summer, 2^2
   peace officers: harbor department, 1506
   Pell Plan extension to, 261
   Sepulveda Dam Basin water reclamation facility, 186
LOS A N G E L E S CITY SCHOOL D I S T R I C T : legislative study, 290
LOS A N G E L E S COUNTY
   Castaic reservoir plan, 258
  city assessing and tax collecting functions, 50
  court reporters, 642
  educational television for adults, 1446
  Lawndale elementary school district tax override election, 23
  medical or dental schools, etc.: property leases, 1090
  municipal court judges, 1477, 1490, 1602
  municipal court officers and attaches, 707
  notary public's deposition fees, 1289
  PuddingstOne state recreation area, 1273
  registrar of voters: Southern California rapid transit district election ballot meas-
                ures : duties, 387
  relocation assistance, 1288, 1489
  Route 105 construction: replacement housing, 917
  Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
  supervisors: flood control district bonds, 450
  theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
                                        INDEX                                       461"

  transactions and use tax, 1567
   transit district public transportation improvement fund, 1567
LOVELL, C A P T A I N J A M E S A., JR., U.S.N., 61
L U M B E R AND L U M B E R I N G
  high costs: study, 210
  log and pole transportation, 816
                                          M
M A C A R T H U R , G E N E R A L DOUGLAS, 121
M A D E R A COUNTY : supervisors: Madera County flood control and water conser-
               vation agency directors, 916
M A D E R A COUNTY F L O O D C O N T R O L A N D W A T E R C O N S E R V A T I O N
               AGENCY, 916
M A G P I E S , 299
MAIL
  certified—
     hunts, special: notices, 813
     irrigation district tax-deeded property redemption period notices, 1346
     juvenile court hearing notice and petition, 664
     vehicle liens, possessory : assignment, 125
  Contra Costa County storm drainage district: zone dissolution notice, 427
  corporate summons: vehicle offenses, 1278
  default or default judgment application : copy to defendant, 567
  homeowners' property tax exemption application, 338
  judgment entry notice, 87
  Mojave water agency benefit zone notices, 34
  public assistance warrants, 509
  registered : bond delinquency notices : street improvement's, 1221
  Riverside County flood control and water conservation district: drainage standby
               assessment hearing notice, 198
  sentry dog assignment notices, 1393
  sidewalk repair notices, 211
  tenancy termination notice, 442
  university or college employees' or students' dismissal or suspension notices, 1424
  unsolicited merchandise, 265, 400
M A I N T E N A N C E D I S T R I C T S , 415
MALONEY. T H O M A S A., 154
M A L P R A C T I C E , 608
MANDAMUS, 494, 1565
M A N P O W E R U T I L I Z A T I O N , O F F I C E O F : creation, purposes, etc.,. 1068
M A N S L A U G H T E R , 593
MANUFACTURING
  olive oil, 659
  pet food, processed, 1241
  restricted dangerous drugs, 403
  tear gas weapons, 1231
MAPS
  city annexations, 148
   county waterworks districts, 415
  Delta water agency, 285
  fire protection district annexations, 13T
  highway lighting districts, 171
  irrigation districts, 63
  maintenance districts, 415
  recreational trails, 674
   Yolo-Zamora water district, 241
M A R I J U A N A , 519, 1297,160
M A R I N COUNTY
   Bolinas Bay lands: transfer, etc., 787
   officers, certain: salary, 1410
   tidelands improvement, 1375
M A R I N E M I N E R A L T E C H N O L O G Y C E N T E R , 304
M A R I N E R E S E A R C H C O M M I T T E E , 1593, 1614
M A R I P O S A COUNTY : district attorney : salary, 1410
M A R I T I M E ACADEMY, C A L I F O R N I A , 801, 287
M A R I T I M E DAY, 11,1
M A R L E R - J O H N S O N H I G H W A Y P A R K ACT, 1327
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics-
462                                 INDEX

MARRIAGE
  counselors: membership on social worker and marriage Counselor qualification
              board, 298
  family law act, 1608
  Indian marriages by tribal, etc., custom, 120, 1609
  nullity, judgment of, 1607, 1608
M A R S H A L S , 83, 134, 172, 342, 477, 525. 690, 1187,1302
MAUSOLEUMS AND COLUMBARIUMS, 737
M c A T E E R A L C O H O L I S M ACT, 290, 1107
M c A T E E R - P E T R I S ACT, 713
MEAT AND M E A T P R O D U C T S , 815, 1241
MECHANICS' LIENS
  contractors' notices, 1176
  engineers or land surveyors, 1364, 1468
  notices, 1176, 1468
  works of improvement, 1362
MEDI-CAL C O N F L I C T O F I N T E R E S T L A W , 475
M E D I C A L A S S I S T A N C E PROGRAM, C A L I F O R N I A
  basic health care, 1079
  benefits: limitations, 880
  benefits: recovery from persons liable for injury, 1420
  carriers: coverage limitations, 880
  carriers: fradulent claims to, 545
  catastrophic illness or accident, 21
  conflict of interest law, 475
  county's share of costs, 21
  false or fraudulent claims, 545, 562
  health care deposit fund: refunds, 814
  health care services: referrals: conflict of interest, 475
  hospital facilities: licensing, 1452
  inpatients: maintenance allowances, 21
  intermediate care facility program study, 830
  out-of-state care and treatment, etc., 21
  pharmacists' payments, 396
  providers—
     conflicts of interest law, 475
     cost reports, 1274
     disqualification, 1419
     moneys due, etc.: claims, liens, etc., 807
     statements: delayed submission, 1292
     suspension, etc., 994, 1386
  revisions, generally, 21
  tuberculosis patients, 811
M E D I C A L E X A M I N E R S , COUNTY, 1398
MEDICAL EXAMINERS, STATE BOARD OF
  district review committee nominations, 253
  physical therapy corporations: powers and duties, 1440
M E D I C A L SCHOOLS
  deans: district review committee nominations, 253
  foreign: graduates: certification, 336, 503
  foreign: United States citizen graduates: certification, 336
  leases: county property, 1090
  students: treatment of sick, etc., 616
M E D I C A L S O C I E T I E S : district review committee nominations, 253
MEETINGS
  city councils, 775
  county central committees, 1225
  extended opportunity programs and services, advisory committee on, 1579
  fish and game commission, 110
  health officers, local, California conference of, 1263
  health planning council, 1550
  industrial safety board, 1387
  industry and world trade commission, California, 1161
  junior college governing boards, 623
  lands commission, state, 1613
  legislative proceedings, state : open and public, 343
  local agency formation commissions, 1301
  local legislative bodies with state, federal, etc., representatives, 1182
  Mountain View shoreline regional park community, 1109
  open and public requirements: violations, 494
  public agencies: constitutional officer's representation, 1613
  redevelopment agencies with neighborhood councils, 955
                                       INDEX                                        463
  Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
  state central committees, 1, 1225
  state college auxiliary organizations, 1288
  state hospital advisory boards, 459
  University of California regents, 1224, 36Q
M E M O R I A L DAY : observance, 185
MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS
  Bailey, Floyd P., 36
  Bareilles, Melvin J., 28
  Beek, Joseph Allan, 7
  Biscailuz, Eugene W., 181
  Brant, LeRoy V., 275
  Claiborne, Paul, 144
  Del Mutolo, Judge M. G., 381
  Dirksen, United States Senator Everett McKinley, 398
  Donnelly, Hugh P., 311
  Evans, James A., 66
  Freeman, Y. Frank, 11
  Hinckley, Stewart and B e r t h a : former assemblyman and wife, 235
  Holmes, James L . : former assemblyman, 80
  Hoover, Herbert, Jr., SOI
  interstate 5 bridge: Vietnam victims' memorial plaque, 357
  Johnson, Leif, 231
  Miller, Senator George, Jr., 8
  Mowbray, Alan, 161
  Murdy, Norma Lorbeer, 15
  Nolet, Pat, 87
  Pattee, Alan G., 145
  Pettit, Russell E., 269
  Sheppard, H a r r y R . : former congressman, 159
  Trainor, John R . : naming of bridge for, 355
M E N D O C I N O COUNTY
  Mendocino Headland and Big River beach a r e a : state park feasibility study, 220
  officers, certain: salary, 1410
M E N ' S COLONY, C A L I F O R N I A , 421
M E N T A L H E A L T H . See COMMUNITY M E N T A L H E A L T H S E R V I C E S ;
              MENTAL HYGIENE, D E P A R T M E N T O F ; MENTALLY DISOR-
              DERED P E R S O N S ; MENTALLY ILL PERSONS.
MENTAL HYGIENE, DEPARTMENT OF
  director—
     inebriate treatment facility: approval, 1472
     mentally retarded persons' guardianship and conservatorship, 1594
     mentally retarded persons' services: powers and duties: successor, 1471
     patients' funds: duties, 1272
     state hospital program director: qualifications, 907
     transfer of certain functions from health and welfare administrator, 138
  drug abuse services of community mental health p r o g r a m s : evaluation, etc., 319
   drug addicts: state hospital placement, 624
  geriatric commitment screening, 292
  hospital and health facilities construction, 1451
  mental retardation facilities p l a n : Agnews state hospital, 350
   mentally disordered prisoners: powers, etc., 872
   mentally ill persons' care while on leave of absence: collection of charges, 863
   mentally ill persons subject to firearms restrictions: duties, 1119
   mentally retarded .persons: state hospital placement, 624
  Napa state hospital property: rights-of-way, 1339
   psychiatric technicians: training or educational programs, etc.: contracts, 112ft
   state hospital advisory board: duties, 459
MENTALLY DISORDERED PERSONS
   care and treatment, generally, 722
   commitment: indigents: legal counsel, 1514
   involuntary treatment, 722
   leaves of absence, 722
   prisoners: treatment and evaluation, 872
   72-hour treatment and evaluation, 722
   sex offenders, 1128
   transfer of program to another state department: disposition of appropriation, 722
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
464                                  INDEX

MENTALLY I L L PERSONS
   children: adoption, 261
  commitment, 722, 1514
   conservatorship, 722
   criminals: parole, 866
   escapes, 1021
   firearms, 722, 1021, 1119
     eriatric commitments, 292
  f  /anterman-Petris-Short a c t : revision, 722
   leaves of absence, 863
   parole, 866
   personal property, 722
   prayer, treatment by, 722
   prisoners: treatment and evaluation, 872
   private institutions : detention, 722
MENTALLY RETARDED PERSONS
   Agnews state hospital facilities, 350
   area boards, 1594
   care and treatment, generally, 1594
   guardianship and conservatorship, 1594
   institutions, private: recipients of aid to disabled, 1416
   Lanterman mental retardation services act of 1969, 1594
   leaves of absence, 722
   mental retardation program advisory board, 138, 1594
   minors—
      diagnostic tests of newborn children, 73
      mental hygiene director's powers and duties: transfer to secretary of human
               relations agency, 1471
   regional centers, 1476. 1594
   72-hour treatment and evaluation, 722
   state hospital placement, 624
   transfer of program to another state department: disposition of appropria-
               tions, 722
   transfers: consent required, 722
M E R C E D COUNTY : certain officers: salary, 1410
M E R G E R S , 434, 1055, 1275
M E R I T A W A R D S , 305
M E T R O P O L I T A N W A T E R D I S T R I C T S , 209, 230, 441
M E X I C A N - A M E R I C A N EDUCATION W E E K , 93
M E X I C A N - A M E R I C A N W E E K , 139
MEXICO
  border crossing : minors, 1361
  entry restrictions : minors, 91
   residents: students in United States schools, 1270
M E Y E R S - G E D D E S A C T : employers' contributions, 1376
M I L I T A R Y AND V E T E R A N S CODE : codification to maintain code, 728
M I L I T A R Y D E P A R T M E N T , STATE, 1267, 1390
M I L I T A R Y , NAVAL, ETC., S E R V I C E
  hunts, special, 695
  medical corps personnel: registered nurse licenses, 1592
  pay equalization : retired members, 201
  state civil service employees : military leave, 912
  state civil service employees: veterans' seniority credit, 986
M I L K AND M I L K P R O D U C T S
  Bispo, Miss F r a n c e s : American Dairy Princess, 234
  buttermilk, 537
  cheese, 544
  equalization pools: producer-distributor, 76
  fluid cream, 884, 1350, 1355
  fluid milk, 884, 1350, 1355
  fluid skim milk, 537
  inspection, 1341
  market cream, 537
  market milk, 1341
  marketing orders, 217, 1355
  prices: fluid milk and fluid cream, 884, 1350, 1355
  products resembling milk, 139, 634
  research, 217
  stabilization law : distributor, 884
  standards, temporary, 537
                                        INDEX                                      465
  vending machine operators, 884
  yogurt: dietetic fruit yogurt, 444
M I L L B R A E , CITY O F : right-of-way transfer, 378
M I L I A R , SENATOR G E O R G E , JR., 8
M I N E R A L S . See M I N E S AND M I N E R A L S .
M I N E S AND M I N E R A L S
  estate leases, 596
  federal operations, 260
  mineral, oil and gas brokers, 98
  San Francisco hai-bor lands, 1296
  state land sales or exchanges: mineral rights, 1014
  water standby charges, 377
MINORS
  adoption. See A D O P T I O N .
  age misrepresentation : detention, 1008
  aid to families with dependent children—
      adult male residing with family : expenses, 1417
      appropriation, 951
       educational trust funds, 318
       rehabilitation program or job training, 1505
       separation of functions, 339
  boarding homes and institutions: maintenance of automatic sprinkler systems
              approved by state fire marshal, 661
   child care. See C H I L D CARE.
   child counselors : qualifications, 298
   Children's Dental Health Week, 25
   detention, 260, 1001, 1008
   drivers' licenses, 382
   driving permits, junior, 947
   employment: hours of, 1589
   eyeglasses, 1337
   family law act, 1608
   freedom from parental control actions, 489
   gifts: successor custodians, 1074
   identification cards, 1340
   incorrigibles : state prison terms, 924
   juvenile court proceedings. See J U V E N I L E C O U R T S .
   mentally ill or mentally disordered, 722
   Mexican-California border crossing restrictions, 1361, 91
   narcotics, marijuana, etc., offenses, 519
   newborn children : diagnostic tests, 73
   noncitizen children without immigration status, 1270
   obscene matter, 248, 249
   out-of-state fugitives, 1011
   probation : special supervision programs, 1415
   restricted dangerous drug transactions with : penalties, 403
   rhesus isoimmunization hemolytic disease: newborn infants, 1563
   support payments, 1202
   testamentary estate : guardian, 563
   vocational youth organization, 332
   youth correctional centers, 1193
M I R R O R S : two-way mirrors, 428
M O B I L E H O M E S AND M O B I L E H O M E P A R K S , 761, 799, 879, 1165, 1500, 1553
M O L L U S K S , 488
MONO COUNTY : certain officers : salary, 1410
MONTAGUE W A T E R C O N S E R V A T I O N D I S T R I C T , 496
M O N T E R E Y COUNTY
    fish and game refuge 3B : abolishment, 116
    tide and submerged lands, 1430
M O N T E R E Y P A R K P R O G R E S S : 50th anniversary, 30
M O N U M E N T S AND M E M O R I A L S
    Allensworth townsite, 310
    Bidwell Mansion, 215
    historic sites: land appropriations, 357
    historical landmarks advisory committee, 628
    Lummis Home state historical monument, 1276
    Richard M. Nixon birthplace, 375
    Wakamatsu tea and silk farm colony, 63
MORATORIUM : aid to families with dependent children: nonseparation of func-
               tions disincentives, 339
M O R R I S , R. L. "CUBA", 65
MORTGAGES, 1256, 1468
 NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics-
466                                     INDEX

MOSCONE A U T O M O B I L E L E A S I N G ACT O F 1969, 1208
MOSQUITO A B A T E M E N T D I S T K I C T S , 42, 288
MOSQUITO C O N T R O L W E E K , C A L I F O R N I A , 196
M O T E L S : two-way mirrors, 428
M O T H E R LODE, GOLDEN C H A I N COUNCIL, 177
MOTION P I C T U R E S , 249; 207
MOTOR CLUBS, 858
MOTOR V E H I C L E F U E L : sales and use t a x : cropdusters, 561
MOTOR V E H I C L E F U E L L I C E N S E T A X
  aircraft jet fuel, 1587
  deficiency notices, 368
  increase, 52, 725
  refunds: cropdusters, 561
  refunds: storage tax, 131
  storage tax, 131
MOTOR V E H I C L E T R A N S P O R T A T I O N L I C E N S E TAX, 368
MOTOR V E H I C L E S
  abandoned: disposition, 547
  accidents. See A C C I D E N T S .
  air pollution. See A I R P O L L U T I O N .
  armored cars, 9
  auction : possessory lienholders, 125
  bailment contracts, 1208
  buses. See B U S E S .
  campers. See C A M P E R S .
  cargo tanks, 175
  carriers. See C A R R I E R S .
  combinations: length limitations, 687
  commercial coach, 799
  commercial vehicles—
     county highway use: weight restrictions, 1598
     parking, 777
     study, 351
     weight fees, 812
  construction equipment, 90, 1242
  dealers, 111, 240
  department—
     blind aid applicants, etc.: drivers' licenses, 1445
     business and transportation agency, inclusion in, 138
     checks, dishonored : redeposit, 214
     commercial vehicles : study, 351
     drivers' license renewal examinations, 203
     experimental driver training programs: powers and duties, 1454
     identification cards, 1143, 1340
     interstate highway carriers: records, 1279
     junior driving permits : duties, 947
     license suspension, revocation, etc.: powers and duties, 240, 1045, 1167
     registration transfers, involuntary or creating security interest, 384
  director: drivers' license renewal examination: study, etc., 203
  director: evidence of investigation expenses, 833
  dismantlers, 240
  distributors, 111, 1298
  drivers' licenses—
     blind aid recipients, etc., 1445
     false or fraudulent license by minor, 9
     farm trailers, 697
     junior driving permits, 947
     motorcycles, 58
     renewal: vision tests, 203
     student license, minimum age increase, 382
     suspension, revocation, etc.—
        driving with suspended license : misdemeanor, 9
        effective date, 1045
        narcotics, marijuana, etc., offenses: minors, 519
        speed contests: juveniles, 1167
  driving under combined influence of intoxicating liquor and drugs, 956
  drunk driving, 231, 1210, 1421, 1438
  equipment—
     brakes: forklift trucks, 132
    loading and towing, 338
    odometers, 111
                                         INDEX                                        467

       seatbelts: schoolbuses, 363
       tires. See subheading, tires, below,
   farm labor vehicles, 9
   farm trailers. See AGRICULTURE—implements of husbandry.
   fees and taxes—
       checks, dishonored : redeposit, 214
       farm trailers, 697
       identification plates, 472, 1242
       public works vehicle permits, 115Q
       registration, 175, 1444
      schoolbuses: privately owned, 1444
       special plates, 1442
      vehicle license fees—
          checks, dishonored : redeposit, 214
          city and county allocations, 127
          county distributions: population estimate increase, 556
          trailer coach fees, 126
      veterans, certain disabled: exemptions, 893
      weight fees, 697, 812
  financial responsibility l a w : property damage : security deposit, 486
   financial responsibility l a w : registration suspension termination, etc., 539
  fines and forfeitures, 9, 742, 1131
  height limitations, 827
  highways: definitions, 1213
  highways: use, 1365
  identification plates, 1075, 1242
  implements of husbandry. See AGRICULTURE—implements of husbandry.
  lamps and devices, 218, 341
  leases, 1208
  length limitations, 132, 543, 687, 723
  lessors or renters: liability insurance, 965
  license plates : citizens radio service members, 1442
  license plates: suspension, etc., re financial responsibility law, 539
  licenses, etc.—
      dealers, 240
      dismantlers, 240
      drivers' licenses. See subheading, drivers' licenses, above.
      lamp and brake adjusters, 1064
      manufacturers, 240
      pollution control device installers, 1064
      public works permit, 1150
      salesmen, 240
      transporters, 240
  limited production vehicle, 1196
  loads: height, 827
  loads: violations, 517
  logs and poles: transportation, 816
  manufacturers, 111, 240, 1298
  modification, 300
  Moscone Automobile Leasing Act of 1969, 1208
  motor clubs, 858
  motorcycles, 58, 104
  new car dealers policy and appeals board, 1031
  noise limit, 1318
  oil well production service units, 133
  parking. See subheading, traffic regulations, below,
  passenger vehicle: definition, 479
  propulsion, on vehicular crossing, by pushing with another vehicle, 237
  public utility vehicles: parking, 777
  recreational trails, 674
  registration—
      air pollution control device requirement, compliance certificates, 622
      dead hauler vehicles, 815
      farm trailers, 697, 808
      snowmobiles, 1075
      suspension termination, etc.: financial responsibility law, 539
      transfers: involuntary or creating security interest, 384
  removal from highway, etc., 1116, 1229
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers'! resolutian chapters are indicated in italics;
 468                                      INDEX-

 MOTOR VEHICLES—Continued
    sales—
         air pollution emission standards: compliance, 1298
         conditional sales contracts, 240, 255, 724, 1189
         customer referrals, 255, 1189
         financing: real or personal property liens, 264
         mileage warranty, 111
         possessory lienholders, 125
    salesmen, 240
    slow-moving vehicle emblem, 632, 949
    snowmobiles, 1075
    special construction equipment, 90
    speed contests : juveniles, 1167
    speed limits, 91, 226, 631, 632, 834
    tires, studded: use, 169
    towing, 132, 338, 543, 687
    traffic control devices, 1033
    traffic control surveys, 1061
    traffic regulations—
         bridge and highway districts, 1378
        control devices, 136
        control, local authorities, 168
         distance between vehicles, 226
        driving on left side of roadway: crest of grade or approaching curve, 417
        highways: yield right-of-way signs, 1101
        infractions, 1131, 1334
        one-way traffic, 136
        parking, etc.—
            airports, 77
            commercial vehicles, 777
            public utility vehicles, 777
            streets or highways, certain: restrictions, 541
        right-of-way provisions, 312
        signs: generally, 1033
        stop signs : required stops, 364
        traffic commissioners, 40
        two-way left turn lanes, driving i n : restrictions, 418
   traffic signs—
        control devices, 1033
       highways, 1101
        red alone or stop on signal, 246
        stop signs, 364, 840
        yield right-of-way, 834
   transporters, 240, 816
   trucks—
       cargo tanks, 175
       driveaway-towaway operations, 543
       forklift: towing, 132
       length limitations, 543
       log and pole transporters, 816
       refuse collection : weight, 287
  unsafe condition : definition, 300
  violations—
       arrest without warrant, 956
       corporations: service by mail, 1278
       evidence and investigation expenses, 833
       infractions, 9
       insurance premium increase, 1517
      load height, width, etc., violations, 517
      misdemeanors, specified, 9
      notices, 1056
      reports, 1248
      slow moving vehicles, 949
      state parks, violations in, 435
      traffic infractions, 1334
  weight limitations, 287, 393, 1365, 1598
  width limitations, 723
M O U N T A I N L I O N S , 987
M O U N T A I N V I E W , CITY O F
  charter amendments, 29
  Mountain View shoreline regional park community, 1109
                                       INDEX                                        469

M O U N T A I N V I E W S H O R E L I N E R E G I O N A L P A R K COMMUNITY A C T , 1100
MOWBRAY, ALAN, 161
M U D S L I D E S , 419
M U N I C I P A L C L E R K S ' W E E K , 161 166
M U N I C I P A L I M P R O V E M E N T ACT O F 1913, 513
MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
  Embarcadero municipal improvement district, 174
  Estero municipal improvement district, 236
  Montalvo municipal improvement district, 352
M U N I C I P A L S E W E R AND W A T E R F A C I L I T I E S , 600
M U N I C I P A L U T I L I T Y D I S T R I C T S , 328, 433, 600
M U N I C I P A L W A T E R D I S T R I C T S , 71, 600, 708, 1065
M U R D E R , 593, 923
MURDY, NORMA L O R B E E R , 15
M U R P H Y , G E O R G E H., 33
MUSCULAR D Y S T R O P H Y MONTH, 189
MUSIC
  American Music Month, bl, 52
  cafe musicians, 969
   Country and Western Music Week, 136
  school bands or orchestras: performances, 1266

                                              N
NAMES
  Blue Star memorial highway: state route 58, 323
  E l Segundo Freeway, 362
  employment agencies, private, 1595
   fictitious business name certificates, 114
  governor's reorganization plan : name changes of various agencies, 138
  job training and development, division of: change to division of job' training,
               development and placement, 1068
   land surveying organizations, 474
   legislative advocates, 606
   lien obligors, release information re, 592
  Norwalk Freeway, 362
    Olympic Tunnel: change to Robert E . McClure Tunnel, 393
   Orange Freeway, 157
   osteopaths : "M.D.'', suffix, 974
   physical therapists: "M.D.", suffix, 1185
   physical therapy corporations, 1440
   psychological corporations, 1436
    real estate licensees, 189
    Robert E. McClure tunnel, 393
    Robert F . Fisher Bridge, 282
    scenic highways advisory committee, 1352
    school pupils' surnames, 1082
    Sonoma County water agency, 656
NAPA, CITY O F : charter amendments, 68
 N A P A COUNTY : Napa state hospital property : right-of-way, 1339
 NARCOTICS
    addicts—
        detention, etc., 238
        firearms possession : prohibition, 722
        state hospital placement, 624
     bureau of narcotics enforcement: personnel: concealed firearms, 1012
     bureau of narcotics enforcement: personnel: workmen's compensation, 1402
     community narcotics and dangerous drug treatment services, 869
     detection dogs, 1393
     drug abuse research, etc., program : evaluation, 1618
     flow into California : checking of, 160
     harmful drugs and hallucinogenic substances study, 1566
     narcotic addict evaluation authority : outpatients: order re return to custody, 238
     offenders : junior college credentials, 961
     offenders: school employees, 685
     prescriptions, 550
     research, etc., 429
     seizure and disposition, 1091
     users: custody, evaluation and treatment, 869
     violations : minors : drivers' license suspension, 519
      Youth Temperance Education Week, 5\
  N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
470                                   INDEX

N A T I O N A L A S S O C I A T I O N O F I N S U R A N C E WOMEN, 110
N A T I O N A L B E K I N D TO A N I M A L S W E E K , 149
N A T I O N A L E N G I N E E R S ' W E E K , 34
N A T I O N A L G O O D W I L L W E E K , 124
N A T I O N A L GUARD, 1206, 1267
N A T I O N A L I N S U R A N C E W O M E N ' S W E E K , 110
N A T I O N A L L I B R A R Y W E E K , 158
N A T I O N A L R A I S I N W E E K , 131
N A T I O N A L W I N E F E S T I V A L MONTH I N C A L I F O R N I A , 882
N E G L I G E N C E : radioactive contamination, 666
N E G O T I A B L E I N S T R U M E N T S , 1521
N E T S , 488, 1384
NEVADA C O U N T Y : certain officers: salary, 1410
N E W C A R E E R S I N E D U C A T I O N ACT, 1453
N E W M E L O N E S DAM AND R E S E R V O I R P R O J E C T , 251
N E W S P A P E R S , 1153, 30, 106
N I X O N , R I C H A R D M., 373
NOCE, ANGELO : commemorative stamp and Angelo Noce week, 22
NOISE
   airports, 1585
   control problems, etc.: study, 1042
    motor vehicles, limit, 1318
    supersonic booms by jet aircraft, 194
 N O L E T , P A T , 87
 N O L O C O N T E N D E R E , 878
 N O N P R O F I T AND C O O P E R A T I V E A S S O C I A T I O N S
    county theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
    Hastings College of Law faculty, etc., housing, 797
    prison-made goods: sale, 909
    senior citizen members: tax relief, 51
 NONRESIDENTS
    hypodermic needle or syringe distributors, 1028
    state college students, 1492, 1605
    state hospital commitment, 722
    w a r d s : removal of property, from state, 293
 N O R T H A M E R I C A N R O C K W E L L C O R P O R A T I O N , 62
 N O T A R I E S P U B L I C , 45, 78, 1289, 1313
 NOTES
     county water districts, 507
     local agencies, 307
     public utilities, 700
     San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district, 24
     Santa Clara County transit district, 180
     state bond anticipation notes, 740, 741
     water conservation districts, 414
 NOTICES
     agriculture marketing order hearings, 702
     agriculture produce dealers or commission merchants: complaints against, 1105
     air carriers, passenger, service discontinuance, 404
     alcoholic beverage license transfers, 654, 1466
     appearance: misdemeanor offenses, 1259
      automobile liability insurance nonrenewal notices, 227
      blind aid applicants or recipients: drivers' licenses, 1445
     bond delinquency : street improvements, 1221
      clinical laboratory licensees: license expiration, 1328
      commodity advisers' certificate suspension, etc., 1305
      compromise settlement acceptance, 277
      Contra Costa County storm drainage district: zone dissolution, 427
      county central committee vacancies, appointments to fill, 453
      county property sale, 897
      court action transfers, 345
      credit card loss or theft, 904
      data processing equipment, county: sale and leaseback, 463
      default or default judgment application, 567
      drycleaning business, equipment, etc., sale: license requirement notice, 394
      employment agency counselors: change of employment, 1531
      escrow holders: alcoholic beverage license transfer, 1083
      estate leases exceeding 10 years : hearings, 596
      estate securities : exchange, 425
      fire protection district board additional member, 203
      firearms purchases by mentally ill persons, 1119
      firearms seized by law enforcement agency: disposition, 401
                                      INDEX                                      471
 forcible entry actions, 903
 general election, governor's proclamation calling, 159
 geological or geophysical survey permit hearings, 1238
 hotel rates, etc., 826
 hunts, special, 813
 improvement bond maturity, 771
 industrial safety board meetings, 1387
 initiative and referendum petition notice of intent, 774
 insolvent insurers' actions, 1347
 insurance cancellation, 1081
 inter vivos trusts, 1172
 irrigation district tax-deeded property redemption period, 1346
 judgment entry, 87
 juvenile court hearings, 664
 juvenile offenders' transportation, 1197
 Kern Delta water district hearings, 1085
 liability actions, 1261
 Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
 mechanics' liens, 1176, 1362, 1364, 1468
 Medi-Cal benefits, recovery actions, 1420
 Medi-Cai providers' suspension, 994, 1386
 milk and milk products standards violations, 1341
 mobiiehome park tenancy termination, 1500
 Mojave water agency benefit zone establishment: notice of intention, 34
  mosquito breeding places, etc., on state controlled property: abatement and con-
             trol, 288
 motor vehicle account transfers, 833
 motor vehicle drivers' license suspension, 1045
 motor vehicle fund transfers, 1437
 motor vehicle parking restrictions, 541
 motor vehicle registration transfers, 384
  motor vehicle removal from highway, 1229
 motor vehicle violations, 1056
  oil and gas lease hearings, 1238
 open space easements, 762
  outstanding educators of the year provisions, 1568
 personal injury or death claims against decedents' estates, 959
 public assistance, appeals and review, 1225
 public works contracts, state, 1036
  radioactive material decontamination liens, 666
  real estate sales: execution, foreclosure or probate, 149
 records, documents, etc.: notice to produce m civil litigation, 1034
  recreational trail easement or license transfers, 674
  restraining orders, temporary, etc.: bonds, undertakings or deposits r e : motion re
             liability enforcement, 141
  Riverside County flood control and water conservation district: drainage standby
             assessments, 198
  Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district property sale, 92
  Santa Clara County transit district, 180, 1448
  sardine limits: commercial fishing, 1384
  school administrative or supervisory personnel release, 1545
  school district budget hearings, 636
  sentry dog assignments, 1393
  sex education classes: notice to parent or guardian, 977
  sidewalk and curb construction, certain, 276
  sidewalk repair, 211
  state employee disciplinary proceedings, etc., 794
  state land sales, 1024
  street or highway right-of-way conveyance, 235
  tax deficiency determinations, 368
  tear gas weapon hearings, 1231
  tenancy termination, 442
  traffic infractions, 1334
  transfer of action to proper court, 345
   trial notice by adverse party, 85
  Tuolumne County water agency hearings, 1236
   unemployment disability hospitalization benefits, 584
   uninhabited territory exclusion from city: hearings, 452
  uninsured motorist claims: statute of limitations, 668
  University of California regents' meetings, 1224, 36Q
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.'
472                                     INDEX

NOTICES—Continued
  university or college campus, withdrawal of consent to remain on, 1424"
  unlawful detainer actions, 903
  unlawful detainer sale: personal property, 480
  vehicle offenses: corporations, 1278
  vehicle possessory lien assignments, 125
  wage claims, 1529
  water quality protection hearings, 482
  water storage districts, California, 1086
  wild animal and bird importation, 975
  workmen's compensation : state action to recover, 1420
NUCLEAR ENERGY
  office of: name change to atomic energy development and radiation protection •
             control office, 138
  plant sites : drilling permits, 1430
  radioactive material transportation, 601
NUISANCES
  airport noise, 1585
  gambling places, unlawful, 262
  mosquito breeding places, etc., 288
  supersonic booms, 194
  waste disposal, 800
  water pollution : Lake Tahoe, 1356
NURSES
  board of vocational nurse and psychiatric technician examiners: vocational nursing
             school accreditation, 1542
  licenses, 527, 1541, 1592
  medical service technicians, 1592
  nursing education and nurse registration, state board of: armed services medical
             corps personnel licensing, 1592
  nursing education and nursing registration, state board of: nursing school ac-
             creditation, 1541
  nursing schools : accreditation, 1541, 1542
  registered nurses, 560, 1541, 1592
  rescue t e a m s : liability, 573
  scholarships, 1059
  veterans, 1592
  vocational nurses, 112, 527, 1541, 1542
N U R S I N G AND R E S T H O M E S , 175, 312, 330
N U R S I N G H O M E W E E K , C A L I F O R N I A , 115


OAKLAND, CITY O F : new charter, 21
O A T H S , 191, 901, 1371
OBSCENITY, 248, 249, 925, 1534, 1535
OCEAN, 483, 1044, 265
ODD F E L L O W S W E E K , 142
O F F I C E R S AND E M P L O Y E E S , P U B L I C
  arrests by, 1205
  civil service. See C I V I L S E R V I C E .
  conflicts of interest, 1512
  counties—
     administrative or executive officers : contractual authority delegation to, 499
     administrator, public, 319
     finance, director of. 638
     juvenile ward or dependent child's support payments: duties, 437
     property tax administration, 130
  districts : judgment debtors: claims against, 154
  districts: Santa Clara County transit district, 180
  employer-employee relations: employee organizations, 1389
  employer-employee relations : firefighters, 1269
  generally—
     arrest warrants : execution, 478
     crimes against, 1207
     disadvantaged persons' entry-level government jobs, 1068
     election, 331
     vacation credits: exemption from attachment or execution, 546
  health and accident insurance : dependents, 1029
  local agencies: employees' fringe benefits, 1230
  local agencies: peace officer designation, 1506, 1511
                                              INDEX                                             473

   state—
      bank and corporation tax law antidisclosure provisions: applicability, 603
      budget bill, 1969-70, delayed enactment: effect, 627
      civil service. See C I V I L S E R V I C E ,
      disciplinary proceedings, etc., 794
      governor's aides and secretaries: salaries, 1581
      holidays, 1521
      leaves of absence, £77
      merit awards, 305
      salaries. See S A L A R I E S , W A G E S , E T C .
      seniority: veterans, 986
      service credit: effect of delayed passage of 1969-70 budget, 627
      superintendent of public instruction, deputy and associate: representation, 1575
  student records: access, 1465
   victims of criminal acts, 412
OFFICES
   bank branch offices, 843
   forestry district #3, 356
O I L AND GAS
   drilling and safety practices commission, 260
  geological or geophysical surveys, 1238
   leases, 1238, 1426
   Monterey County tidelands, 1430
   offshore development, 119, 254, 865
  offshore leakage damage: exclusion from property tax relief, 129
   operators : production reports : inspection, 553
   Santa Cruz County tidelands, 1430
   vehicles: oil well production service unit, 133
   water pollution, 409, 1043, 217, 265
O L I V E OIL, 659
O L Y M P I C GAMES, 1976 SUMMER, 242
O P E N SPACE LANDS
   contracts: remote interest, 825
   easements, 762
  park and recreation leases, 1046
  property taxation, 7, 565, 862, 1006, 1046
  revision of provisions, 1372
  San Francisco Bay, 713
   scenic highway corridors, 1473
   school districts affected b y : aid, 1322
   valuation provisions, 1006
O P I U M P I P E S : seizure and disposition, 1091
O P T I C I A N S , D I S P E N S I N G , 560, 1333, 1337
O P T I M I S T MONTH, 181
O P T O M E T R I S T S , 560, 605, 640, 1333, 1337
ORANGE COUNTY
   emergency flood assistance, 316
   land exchanges, 985
   municipal court judges, 1490
   officers, certain : salary, 1410
   Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
   superior court judges, 1485
O R C H E S T R A S , 1266                                                              •     „..„,
O R D I N A N C E S . See C I T I E S ; C I T I E S A N D C O U N T I E S ; C O U N T I E S ; D I S -
               T R I C T S ; LOCAL G O V E R N M E N T A L A G E N C I E S .
O R P H A N A G E S , 123
O S T E O P A T H I C E X A M I N E R S , B O A R D O F , 1201
O S T E O P A T H S , 608, 944, 1201
O W E N S VALLEY : air navigational facilities: appropriation, 6



P A C I F I C GROVE, CITY O F : charter revision, 170
P A C I F I C M A R I N E F I S H E R I E S COMPACT, 361
P A I N T , 271, 820
P A I N T I N G AND D E C O R A T I N G W E E K , N A T I O N A L , 85
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics. '
 474                                     INDEX

 P A L O ALTO, C I T Y O F
    charter amendments, 223
    75th anniversary, 105
 P A N D E R I N G , 542
 P A R A M I L I T A R Y ORGANIZATIONS, 804
 P A R E N T AND C H I L D
    adoption. See ADOPTION,
    artificial insemination, 1615
    child s u p p o r t : payments, 1202
    disabled persons living with p a r e n t : relatives' responsibility, 1416
    educationally handicapped children's programs or classes: consent to participation, '
                784
    family law act, 1608
     Foster Parents Week, 161
    freedom of minor from parental custody actions, 489
    mentally retarded children's programs or classes: consent to participation, 784
    school records: availability, 1321
    sex education class attendance, 977
    special class or program participation: consultation with parent re, 652
    support payments, 1202
    testamentary guardians of minors' estates: parent's appointment of, 563
    truancy law violations, 972
 PARKING
    authorities: bonds, 430
    capital area plan property, 1597
    county theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
    fringe parking facilities, 1051
    junior colleges, 742
    Junipero Serra building, Los Angeles, 408
     Sacramento, City of, certain blocks, 408
 PARKS
    community parks, 1308
    community recreation centers, 754
    Estero municipal improvement district, 236
    highway lands, state, 1054
    highways right-of-way land, 1327, 1475
    irrigation district property, 1046
    Mountain View shoreline regional park community, 1109
    rangers: peace officer status, 1511
    regional park districts, 456, 547, 1072, 1116, 1572
    state—
       Amador County: proposed park, 215
       Capitola state p a r k : groin construction, 1459
       Doheny Beach : land exchange, 1276
       Folsom state p a r k : Douglas Boulevard traffic, S53
       Mission Bay, 215
       Palomar Mountain state park : land exchange, 1276
       Redondo state beach : land transfer, 1276
       resources protection : state highway projects, 1052
       San Clemente Beach: land exchange with San Clemente Inn, 1276
       San Francisco maritime state historic park, 1276
      underwater parks, 483
      vehicle or vessel violations in, 435
PARKS AND RECREATION, DEPARTMENT OF
   Allensworth townsite preservation, 310
   archeological publications, 628
   boating safety and enforcement programs, 1354
   Capitola state park groin construction, 1459
   director—•
      Cabrillo College right-of-way : conveyance, 976
      Puddingstone state recreation area grant, 1273
      state park land exchanges, 1276
      Twin Lakes state beach property transfer, 1129
      unclaimed property, certain : use, 838
   Mendocino headland and Big River beach a r e a : state park feasibility study, 220
   Oroville Reservoir state recreation a r e a : Lime Saddle area operation, etc., 555
   recreational trails or easements: transfer, 674
   state water project planning: Los Angeles County, 258
   water project studies: duties, 906
P A R O L E , 816, 1319, 1424
                                          INDEX                                         475

P A R T N E R S H I P S : insurance production agency licenses, 220
P A R T R I D G E S , 696
P A S A D E N A , C I T Y O F : charter amendments, 188
P A T T E E , ALAN G., U5
PEACE OFFICERS
    arrest w a r r a n t s : execution, 478
   bailiffs, 1506
   commission on peace officers' standards and t r a i n i n g : tear gas weapon instruction,
                1231           -
   definition, 1506
   drunk driving a r r e s t s : duties, 1438
   firearms, carrying concealed: specified officials, 1012
   firemen, 1511
   fish and game department deputies, 482
   identification, 1458
   Mexican border crossing by certain minors, 1361
   misdemeanor arrests, 1259
   motor vehicle department, 833
   motor vehicle load violation duties, 517
   National Guard members, 1206
   park rangers, 1511
   penal code revision joint committee advisory board : membership, 1032,
   powers and duties, generally, 956
   riot, etc., emergency a r e a s : powers and duties, 1096
   scholarships for dependents, 1616
   standards and training program : district officers, 1072
   traffic accidents : notice of violation, 1056
   witnesses, 342, 1187
   youth authority officers and employees, certain, 645
P E D E S T R I A N S , 207
P E L L PLAN, 261
P E N A L CODE
   codification to maintain codes, 43
   technical amendments, 204, 529, 597
P E N S I O N S , 1029, 1230
P E R J U R Y , 831, 835
P E R S I M M O N S , 672
PERSONAL PROPERTY
   damage or loss in schools: reimbursement, 846
   decedents' estates, 462, 856
   Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 888
   loans : lenders' liability, 1584
   motor vehicle financing : security, 254
   nonresident wards, 293
   radioactive contamination, 666
   gales, 462, 480
   Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district, 92
   t a x liens, state, 915
   unclaimed property. See U N C L A I M E D P R O P E R T Y .
P E R S O N A L P R O P E R T Y B R O K E R S , 208
P E R S O N N E L BOARD, S T A T E
   civil service employees' military leave, 912
   disadvantaged persons' entry-level positions: examinations: powers and duties,
                1068
   disciplinary proceedings, etc., 794
   executive officer : administration of civil service, 853
   members: leaves of absence, 277
   merit systems: federal grant-in-aid programs, 1283
   overtime : payment authorization, 32
   probationary periods : establishment, 809
   retraining of certain civil service employees, 1199
P E S T I C I D E S , 1169, 1413, 1414
P E S T S : control, 1414
P E T FOOD, 815, 1241
P E T A L U M A , CITY O F : charter amendments, 253
PETITIONS
   city incorporation, 324
   community services district zone establishment, 538
   estate distribution, preliminary, 604
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
476                                       INDEX

PETITIONS—Continued
   estate property leases exceeding 10 years, 596
   initiative and referendum, 774
   inter vivos trusts, 1172
   juvenile court. See J U V E N I L E COURT.
   public assistance appeals and review, 1255
   recall, 774
   testamentary trusts, trustees of: removal, 272
P E T T I T , R U S S E L L E., 269
P H A R M A C O L O G I S T S : drug research advisory panel membership, 1297
PHARMACY
   Medi-Cal payments, 396
   pharmaceutic organization members: liability, 264
   pharmacists—
       actions against, 560
       prescriptions: labels, 147
       prophylactics, 1435
   state board : nonresident hypodermic distributors' licenses, 1028
P H E A S A N T S , 574, 1285
P H E N Y L K E T O N U R I A , 73
P H I L L I P P I N E SCOUTS, 219
P H O T O C O P I E S : county w a r r a n t s : lost or destroyed, 107
P H O T O G R A P H S : sales and use tax, 1153
P H Y S I C A L T H E R A P I S T S , 608, 678, 1185, 1440, 174
PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS
    California Wheelchair Games Days, 169
   children: adopted children : eligibility for state services, 330
   children: crippled children's services program, 1527, 180
    gathering or amusement places, public: access, 1560
    junior college credentials, 961
P H Y S I C I A N S AND S U R G E O N S
    actions against, 560
    blood gas analysis, 108
    blood withdrawal procedure, instruction of nurses in, 112
    certificates: foreign medical school graduates, 336, 503
    county medical examiners, 1398
    drug research advisory panel, 1297
    eyeglasses: minors, 1337
    foreign medical school graduates, 336, 503
    liability : rescue team activities, 573
    opticians, dispensing: prohibited relationships, 1333
    optometrists: prohibited relationships, 1333
    osteopaths, 974
    out-of-state licensees, 765
    physical therapists, 1185
    prenatal blood tests, 1563
   prophylactics information dissemination, 1435
    radiologic technology certification committee : membership, 1504
    rescue t e a m s : liability, 573
    rhesus isoimmunization hemolytic disease in newborn infants: duties, 1563
    state institutions, 765
P H Y S I C I S T S , R A D I O L O G I C A L : radiologic technology certification committee
                membership, 1504
P I C K E T I N G : state capital, 1528
P I M P I N G , 542
P L A C E R C O U N T Y : certain officers: salary, 1410
P L A C E R COUNTY W A T E R AGENCY, 358
PLANNING
    Bolinas Bay lands, 787
    California aqueduct, 258
   capitol area plan, 1597
   Castaic reservoir, 258
    city : commissions: state highway routes and locations hearings, 515
    city : flood plans, 932
    county : commissions : state highway routes and locations hearings, 515
   county : flood plans, 932
   Golden Gate bridge and highway district, 805
   Los Angeles County : Puddingstone state recreation area master plan, 1273
    mental retardation facilities p l a n : Agnews state hospital, 350
   Pyramid reservoir, 258
                                         INDEX                                       477

   San Dieguito River Basin development, 336
   Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   water appropriation fees, 1087
   welfare management and information systems, 14J.8
P L E A S U R E R I D I N G T A X LAW, 1572
P L U M S , 278
P O D I A T R I S T S , 264, 608, 1156
P O I N T F E R M I N M A R I N E L I F E R E F U G E , 693
P O I N T R E Y E S N A T I O N A L S E A S H O R E , 373
POISON
   economic poisons, 1169, 1413
   mountain lions : prohibition, 987
   paint, lead-based, 271
POLICE
   campus disorders control costs : reimbursement, 1427
   chiefs : justifiable homicide reports, 1089
   chiefs: prisoners' confinement reduction, 380
   city: witnesses, 342, 1187
   private : security guards : firearms, 1164
   regional park districts : disposition of abandoned vehicles, 547
   San Francisco Police Athletic League, 268
   state : retirement system membership, 1540
P O L I C E P R O T E C T I O N D I S T R I C T S , 1048
P O L Y T E C H N I C COLLEGE, C A L I F O R N I A S T A T E , 657, 750
P O M E G R A N A T E S , 672
POMONA, CITY O F : charter amendments, 118
POPULATION
   counties: vehicle license fee distribution, 556
   demographic services, 1013
PORT AUTHORITIES, DISTRICTS, ETC.
   San Francisco port authority, 5
   Santa Cruz port district, 1129
   Stockton port district, 280
   Ventura County port district, 413
P O R T E R - C O L O G N E W A T E R QUALITY C O N T R O L ACT, 48a
POST OFFICE
   commemorative stamps—
      Angelo Noce, founder and father of Columbus Day, 22
      California bicentennial, 232
      Japanese immigration centennial, 63
      "Queen Mary" : 36th anniversary, 165
P O U L T R Y , 662, 1241, 1403
POWAY W A T E R STORAGE P R O J E C T , 1065
P O W E R S O F A P P O I N T M E N T , 155, 468
P R A W N S , 488
P R E E M P T I O N BY S T A T E : firearms regulations, 1428
P R E F A B R I C A T E D H O U S I N G , 1422
P R E N A T A L CARE, 1563
P R E S C H O O L P R O G R A M S , 1282
P R E S C R I P T I O N S , 147, 550, 641
PRESUMPTIONS
   drunk driving, 231
    pesticide use : responsibility, 1413
    recreation, etc., land appropriations, 357
    Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta lands: boundaries, 1447
    state parks : vehicle or vessel violations, 435
PRICES
   milk and milk products. See M I L K AND M I L K P R O D U C T S .
   weights and measures misrepresentation, 731
P R I N T E R S ' W E E K , 211
P R I S O N S AND P R I S O N E R S
   corrections department's jurisdiction, 421
    fraudulent entry, 424
    Men's Colony, California, 421
    prison made goods, 270, 909
    prisoners—
       confinement reduction, 380
       defendant or witness, etc., appearance as, 242
       diagnostic facility placement, 1195
 N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
478                                         INDEX

P R I S O N S AND PRISONERS—Continued
   prisoners—continued
      escapes, 588
      female county jail inmates: immediate care, 643
      firefighters: workmen's compensation, 1112
      funds: investment, 1272
      handiwork: sale, 909
      juvenile incorrigibles, 924
      labor, 26$
       mentally disordered: treatment and evaluation, 872
      recall of sentence, 990
       state prison confinement: certain commitments as, 1010
       work furlough rehabilitation law escapees: penalties, 588
       wrongful imprisonment: indemnification, 704
   prisons: establishment and maintenance, 26$
P R I V A T E EDUCATION W E E K , 104
P R I V A T E I N V E S T I G A T O R S . See I N V E S T I G A T O R S AND A D J U S T E R S ,
                PRIVATE.
P R O B A T E P R O C E E D I N G S . See E S T A T E S O F D E C E D E N T S .
PROBATION
   college or university campus disturbances, 1424
   juveniles: county special supervision programs, 1415
   motor vehicle violations, 1210 '
   officers—
      juvenile probation officer: residency waiver, 60
       reports: discussion with defendants, 522           _
   prostitution, 1319
   reports: evaluation prior to judgment, 522
   support failure offenses, 1202
   youth authority commitments, 785
   youth probation services: state aid, 835
P R O C E S S , S E R V I C E O F . See S E R V I C E O F P R O C E S S , N O T I C E S , E T C .
P R O F E S S I O N A L AND VOCATIONAL S T A N D A R D S , D E P A R T M E N T O F
   agriculture and services agency, inclusion in, 138
   boards, commissions, etc., of: members : terms and number, 465
   contractors' license board: mechanics' lien notice form, 1176
   director—
      electronic repair dealer registration b u r e a u : annual report r e : repeal, 99
      electronic service dealers: registration, 308
      employment agency fees, 12, 755, 1233
      investigators and adjusters, private: identification insignia, 681
   employment agencies, bureau of. See E M P L O Y M E N T A G E N C I E S , P R I V A T E .
P R O J E C T CONCERN'S W A L K F O R M A N K I N D DAY, $8$
PROPERTY. See LANDS, PUBLIC; LANDS, STATE; PERSONAL PROP-
       ERTY ; REAL PROPERTY.
PROPERTY TAXATION
  administration : county officers, 130
  appeals, 1020, 1306
 assessment appeals boards, 1020
 assessments—
     air taxis, 732
     business tangible personal property, 658
    city annexations, 148
    city tax : use of county services, 4
    city-county consolidation, 50
    disaster areas, 20, 129, 582, 747
    escaped property, 283, 1126, 1557
    Los Angeles city-county consolidation, 50
    open space lands, 7, 565, 862, 1046
    profession, trade or business, certain, 1126
    record inspection and market data disclosure, 1399
    roll: city taxes, 4
    state property, 1219
    timber producing land, 862
    vessels, documented, 670
 business inventories, 671
 cancellation—
    cemetery property, 88
    church property, 88
    college property, 22, 88
   exhibition property, 88
                                        INDEX                                     479

         late acquisition, property eligible for welfare exemption, 123
         nonprofit corporations, 82f
         orphanage property, 88
         unclaimed exemptions, 82, 88
         welfare exempt property, 88
     collection, 4, 50, 205
     delinquent taxes, 96, 205, 1509
     distribution, 96
    .equalization, 1095, 1306, 1399
     escaped property: inaccurate business property information, 1557
     exemptions—
         business inventories, 250, 283, 1526
         cemetery exemptions, 88
         church exemption, 88
         college exemptions, 22, 88
        .county theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
         exhibition exemptions, 88
         generally, 123
         homeowners' exemptions—
             filing deadlines, 86, 899
             proof of mailing application, 338
             school district assessed value: effect on, 250
             veterans disallowed veterans' exemption, 899, 948
         orphanage exemptions, 88
        personal effects and household furnishings, 88
        veterans' exemptions, 143, 1332, 369
        volunteer fire departments, 203
        welfare exemptions—
            aged, homes for, $66
            articles, bylaws, etc., amendments of: filing time, 128
            eligibility findings, 81
            federal housing for elderly or handicapped, 1561
            generally, 123
            late acquisition, 88
            nonprofit corporations, 84, 123
            volunteer fire departments, 203
   in-lieu t a x : livestock, 1057
    installment payments, 1509
   «pen space lands, 862, 1006
   payment: protest payments, 699
   penalties, 88, 205, 283
   personal effects and household furnishings, 88
   property tax relief: disaster areas, 20, 129, 582, 747
   r a t e s : business inventory exemption: effect, 283
   redemption, 1346, 1509
   refunds, 22, 82, 88, 123
   roll: secured roll: tax distribution, 96
   Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   senior citizens property tax assistance, 51, 790, 1135
   statements: duplicate: assessor's duties, 875
   tax sales, 63, 1086
   tax-deeded property: irrigation districts, 1346
   trees and vines, 862
   vessels, 670, 1526
   wine and wine products, 610
P R O P H Y L A C T I C S , 1435
P R O S T I T U T I O N , 542, 1319
P R O X I E S , 100, 152, 455, 496
P R U N E S , 278
P S Y C H I A T R I C T E C H N I C I A N S , 1073, 1120, 1479
P S Y C H I A T R I S T S : court fees, 1140
PSYCHOLOGY
   disability insurance: psychological expenses, 296
   examining committee, 1209, 1436
   psychological corporations, 1436
   psychologists, 608, 1209
   psychotherapist-patient relationship, 1436
P U B L I C D E F E N D E R S , 957, 1032
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
*
     480                                  INDEX

     P U B L I C E M P L O Y E E S ' R E T I R E M E N T SYSTEM
        agriculture and services agency, inclusion in, 138
        benefits—
            cost of living increases, 752
            death benefits, 153, 751
            reciprocal benefits, 1007
            retirement allowances, 752, 991, 1554
            survivors' allowances, 153, 1227, 1287, 1381,1558
        board: retirement date determination, 1546
        contracting agencies—
            compensation basis, 751
            local safety members, 1227
            miscellaneous members: retirement allowance formula, 793
            retirement allowances, 752
       contributions—
            employers, 1558
            members, 752, 753, 1226, 1227, 1516
       disability retirement: military service credit, 1268
        members—•
            contracting agencies: survivors' allowance election, 1287
           county peace oflicers: marshals and deputy marshals, 477
           firemen, 1558
           forestry members, 1558
           law enforcement members, 5, 477, 753, 1227, 1516
           lifeguards, 1516
           local miscellaneous members, 751
           local safety members, 751, 753
           miscellaneous members, 1268, 1554
           patrol members, 153
           retired members: reemployment, 786, 1227
          retirement: date, 1546
           retirement: qualifications, 1227
           safety members, 752
          state police, 1540
       service credit—-
          eligible employment, 1226
          leaves of absence, 1226
          legislative committee employment, 1554
          local safety and miscellaneous members, 751
          military service, 1268
    P U B L I C E N T I T I E S . See LOCAL G O V E R N M E N T A L A G E N C I E S .
    PUBLIC HEALTH
      county health officers: tuberculosis X-ray records, 269
      department—
          airport noise advisory committee : representation, 1585
          alcoholism functions: transfer to department of rehabilitation, 290
          clinical laboratory licensees: notices, 1328
          county hospital records : regulations, 677
         crippled children's services, 1527, 180
         DDT, etc.: effect of use : study, etc., 315
         drug label ingredient statement: powers and duties, 1522
         emergency medical services program, 1084
         health facility construction loan insurance l a w : powers and duties, 970
         hospital and health facilities construction, 1451
         human relations agency, inclusion in, 138
         Indian health services, 1380
         laboratories performing blood alcohol t e s t s : powers and duties, 1421
         legislative action, suggested : report, 253
         local health officers, California conference of: consultation, 1263
         mentally retarded persons: powers and duties, 1594
         mentally retarded persons: regional centers for, 1476
        pure pet food a c t : administration, 1241
        radioactive decontamination: powers and duties, 666
        radiologic technologists: powers and duties, 1504
        school health services: study, etc., 995
        tear gas weapon reports, 1231
        wild animal and bird importation: powers and duties, 975
     director—
        budget augmentation: duties, 1510
        Delano community water supply study : duties, 1510
        mosquito abatement district board decisions, appeals from: power and duties,
                 288
                                      INDEX                                      481

     pet food: duties, 1241
  Environmental Health Week, 91
   Good Nutrition Week, 69
   health facility construction loan insurance law, 970
   health planning council: hospital and health facilities construction, 1451
   Indian health services, 1380
   local health districts: homemaker services, 1163
   local health officers, 482, 1263, 1435
   movie theater operating and projection room requirements, 615
   school health services: study, etc., 995
   State board—
      blood alcohol tests: laboratories and law enforcement agencies: regulation, 142J
      local health officers, California conference of: consultation, 1263
      prenatal rhesus ( B h ) blood t e s t s : regulations, 1563
      radiologic technologists: powers and duties, 1504
   state college student health needs: study, 279
   Youth Temperance Education Week, 5£
P U B L I C P R O J E C T S . See P U B L I C W O R K S .
P U B L I C R E S O U R C E S CODE
   codification to maintain codes, 54
   technical amendment, 200
P U B L I C SCHOOLS W E E K , 107
P U B L I C SOCIAL S E R V I C E S
   appeals and review, 1255
   cost of living adjustments, 998
   federal aid, 998, 239
   federal welfare programs: maximum use of state and local agencies, 239
   health care services, 21
   homemaker services, 117, 660, 1163
   income qualifications: Indians, California, 1377
   intergovernmental welfare management and information systems act, 1418
   recipients—
      employment agencies, p r i v a t e : referral, 469
      income exemptions, 1228
      Indians, California, 1377
      nonmedical protective living arrangements, 660
      organizational living allowances, 1041
   standards, 286
   state hospital released or discharged p a t i e n t s : county responsibility, 484
   warrants : mailing time, 509
PUBLIC UTILITIES
   contracts. See CONTRACTS.
   easements: Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district
              land, 92
   gas supply mains and appurtenances: public work or improvement, 251
   grade crossings: condemnation proceedings, 855
   notes payable: approval requirement, 700
   overhead lines: removal costs : assessment, etc., 492
   property damage, 709
   relocation assistance, 1489
   removal or relocation, 1154
   Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
   underwater cables or pipes: damage, 709
   vehicles: county highway weight restrictions: exemption, 1598
   water service to certain land within county water district, 18
P U B L I C U T I L I T I E S CODE
   codification of various constitutional provisions, 855
   codification to maintain code, 10, 398
P U B L I C U T I L I T I E S COMMISSION
   air carriers, passenger, i n t r a s t a t e : regulation, 162
   carriers: liability insurance, 823
   city carrier permit application fee refund, 57
   constitutional provisions: revision, 264
   dump truck carriers permits, 1004
   fees, 1345
   genocide telephone campaigns: investigation, etc., 342
   Hollywood-Burbank and Sacramento passenger air service, 249
   interstate highway carriers, 1279
   irrigation district electricity service, 1374
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics^


    16—]>2180
482                                   INDEX

P U B L I C U T I L I T I E S COMMISSION—Continued
   Kern Delta water district contracts: approval, 1085
   notes payable, certain: approval, 700
   president: duties, 717
   Santa Clara County transit district: duties and powers, 180
   water storage districts, California, 1086
P U B L I C U T I L I T Y D I S T R I C T S , 377, 388, 1356
PUBLIC WORKS
   board, s t a t e : surplus funds, 1330
   cities: construction expenditures: financial reports, 212
   contracts—
      apprentice ratio, 1260
      city projects, 594
      cost reduction, 926
      harbor districts, 768
      less than $10,000: bids, 1036
      securities in escrow : progress payments, 1496
   cooperative projects, 451
   counties: construction expenditures: financial reports, 212
   day labor projects, 451
   department—
      advertising, outdoor: application fees, 1294
      business and transportation agency, inclusion in, 138
      construction contracts: cost reduction proposals, 926
      Douglas Boulevard traffic study, 353
      ferry transfers, 630
      freeway lane use by mass public transportation, 703
      highway user fund expenditures by local agencies: review, 1498
      highways—
         additions to scenic highways, 727
         construction project funds, 1035
         division of. See H I G H W A Y S .
         excess l a n d : lease for park purposes, 1054
         excess land : sale, 1186
         fringe parking facilities, 1051
         landscaping funds, 317
         landscaping maintenance, 1037
         motor vehicle restriction ordinances : disapproval, 1365
        priority and expenditures, 291
        rights-of-way lease, 1475
        rights-of-way parcels, 1327
        route 105 : replacement housing program, 917
        signs: yield right-of-way signs, 1101
        state highway system report, 1134
     interstate 5 bridge : memorial plaque, 357
     John R. Trainor memorial bridge: signs, 355
     permits : tideland drilling, 1430
     relocation assistance, 917
     resources protection account deposits, 1052
     riding and hiking t r a i l s : duties, 851
     Robert F . Fisher bridge signs, 282
     San Francisco-Oakland rapid transit tube, 24
     state highways : bridge and highway district: traffic regulation, 1378
     Sweetwater River flood control project: land acquisition, 1245
     T O P I C S program : duties, etc., 1141
     traffic control devices: powers and duties, 1033
     use fuel tax revenues for administrative and maintenance purposes, 329
     vehicle permits: powers and duties, 1150
     vehicular crossing vehicle propulsion restrictions: exemption, 237
     yield right-of-way signs, 834
  director—
     highway rights-of-way leases, 1327
     motor vehicle fund transfers, 1437
     rights-of-way: lease, etc., 1475
  financial feasibility reports, 935
  highways. See H I G H W A Y S ,
  motor vehicle removal from facilities, 1229
  motor vehicle weight limitations, certain : exemptions, 393
  per diem wages: apprenticeship or training programs, 1502
                                        INDEX                                      483

PUBLICATIONS
   archaeological information, 628
   crippled children's services program: diagnosis data, 1527
   exporters and importers directory, 1161
  laboratories approved to perform blood alcohol t e s t s : list, 1421
   master teacher selection criteria, 1617
   prophylactics, information re, 1435
   real estate licensees, 189
   recreational trail plans, etc., 674
   school district publication budgets, 636
PURCHASES
   automatic price computation measuring devices, 386
   counties: purchasing agents' checking accounts, 505
   lease-purchases: school districts: motor vehicles, equipment, etc., 1178
   Point Reyes National Seashore lands, 373
   rifles and shotguns : contiguous states, 772
   Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   school districts: revolving cash fund: supplies, 921
   state colleges, 1429
   s t a t e : cotton or synthetic yarn or fiber for prison-made goods, 27Q
   s t a t e : rehabilitation workshop goods, 280
P U R C H A S I N G A G E N T S , COUNTY, 463, 505, 857
P U R E P E T F O O D A C T O F 1969, 1241



Q U A L I T Y W E E K , 132
Q U A R A N T I N E : wild animals and birds, 975
Q U E E N MARY COMMEMORATIVE S T A M P , 165
QUIMBY-WALSH ACT, 1534
                                           R
R A D I A T I O N , 1338
R A D I O , 1385, 1442, 1460
R A D I O A C T I V E M A T E R I A L S . See also N U C L E A R E N E R G Y ,
  contamination and decontamination, 666
  transportation, 601
R A D I O L O G I C T E C H N O L O G I S T S , 1504
R A I L R O A D S : taxation, 889
RAPID TRANSIT DISTRICTS, AUTHORITIES, ETC.
  bond elections: vote requirement, 635
  financing, 1567
   San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district. See SAN F R A N C I S C O B A Y
               AREA RAPID TRANSIT DISTRICT.
   Southern California rapid transit district. See S O U T H E R N C A L I F O R N I A
               RAPID TRANSIT DISTRICT.
   West Bay rapid transit authority, 180
RATES
   hotels, etc., 826
   irrigation district electric service, 1374
   mentally retarded persons' services, 1594
REAL ESTATE
   brokers or salesmen, 98, 198, 729, 928, 1050
   commission: members, 763
  commissioner—
      industrial subdivision public report waiver, 373
      land project reports, 763
      license violations : powers, 729
      real estate syndicate a c t : powers, duties, etc., 928
   department: succession to functions, etc., of real estate division and department of
               investment, 138
   division: name change to department of real estate, 138
   education, research and recovery fund, 729
   land projects. See S U B D I V I S I O N S .
   licensees: names, 189
   licenses : air force personnel, 98
   licenses: inspection: availability, 189
   syndicates: securities, 928
   violations, 729
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are Indicated in italics-
484                                   INDEX

R E A L E S T A T E SYNDICATE ACT, 928
REAL PROPERTY
   acquisition by s t a t e : irrigation district tax^sold land, 63
  airport relocation and development, 942, 1228
  condemnation or eminent domain a w a r d : apportionment between lienholders, 1256
  counties. See COUNTIES—property; LANDS, P U B L I C .
  covenants running with land, 245
   decedents. See E S T A T E S O F D E C E D E N T S ,
  exchanges, 92, 274
   Fresno metropolitan flood control district, 888
  homesteads, 564, 1099, 263
   'unior college districts, 274
 i  ^ake Tahoe public beaches: investigations, etc., 1222
  leases. See L E A S E S .
  liens. See L I E N S ,
  loans, 493, 879, 1584
   motor vehicle financing: security, 254
   open space easements, 762
  powers of appointment, 468
   radioactive contamination, 666
   Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, 1447
   sales—                                    v
      contracts: prepayment, 399
       county property, 897
       execution, foreclosure or probate: notices, 149
      Hastings College of Law property, certain, 797
      insurance purchase through specified agent, etc., 302
       residential building use, occupancy and zoning classification reports, 894
       residential property : gain : income tax, 980
       Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district, 92
       Unruh retail installment sales a c t : inapplicability, 554
   Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district, 92
   Santa Clara County transit district, 180
   state. See LANDS, STATE,
   tax sales, 1086
R E A P P O R T I O N M E N T , 929, 1316
R E B A T E S , 244, 1066, 1333
RECALL, 106, 511, 774, 835, 940
RECLAMATION, 82, 75
R E C L A M A T I O N D I S T R I C T S , 194, 292
RECLAMATION, S T A T E B O A R D O F , 1443
R E C O R D E R S , COUNTY
   additional indexing : fee, 36
   construction trust deeds: duties, 1468
   documentary transfer tax : declaration of tax due, 1102
RECORDING, FILING, ETC.
   additional indexing : fee, 36
   agricultural land use contracts, 1372
   Bolinas harbor district indebtedness assumption by Marin County, 787
   charitable t r u s t s : reports, 490
   city budget or financial statement, 1170
   city property t a x assessment and collection function transfer to county: ordi-
              nance, 4
   city street expenditure agreements re highway funds, 746
   city street vacation or abandonment resolution, 665
   civil defense workers' loyalty oaths, 901
   collection agency conservators' final accounting, 930
   community redevelopment agencies, dissolution ordinance, 1561
   construction trust deeds, 1468
   coroner's findings re inquests, 1220
   corporations: amendment, change, alteration or dissolution certificate, 322
   corporations: domestic: officers, etc., 1159
   creditors' claims against decedents' estates, 177
   dance studio bond, 611
   Delta water agency map or plat, 285
   district budget or financial statement, 1170
  dump truck carrier permit applications, 1004
  election campaign expense statements, 106
   estate distribution : entitlement determination, 124
  fire protection districts: annexation maps, etc., 137
   fire protection districts: withdrawal of city territory: ordinance, 466
   forest fire protection inspection consent, 688
                                       INDEX                                      485

   highway permit carriers: complaint re collection of charges, 192
   industrial engineer's registration applications, c e r t a i n : filing time, 181
   initiative, referendum and recall petitions: expense and contribution statements,
                  835
   insurance holding company system members, 1275
   irrigation districts, 63
   legislative advocates' expense reports, 606
   lien release, real or personal property, 592
   motor club documents, 858
   nomination p a p e r s : American River flood control district board members, 426
   open space easements, 762
   open space land use restriction instruments, 7
   personal injury or death claims against decedents' estates, 959
   physical therapy corporation reports, 1440
   powers of appointment: release, 468
   radioactive decontamination lien, 666
   reinsurance contracts: annuities, 516
   Riverside County flood control and water conservation district: drainage standby
                  assessment report, 198
   school building aid waiver resolution, 613
   school district budgets, 636
   sex offenders, mentally disordered: transfers, 1128
   snow removal costs, 725
   soil conservation district dissolution order, 706
   tear gas weapon applications, 1231
   wage claims, 1529
   water storage districts, California : rules and regulations, 1086
   Yolo-Zamora water district: maps and plats, 241
R E C O R D I N G F O R T H E B L I N D , INC., 83
RECORDS
   agricultural pest control agents, 1414
   archeological sites, 628
   armed services medical corps personnel: registered nurse license applications, 1592
   arrest without w a r r a n t and release without charge, 1117
   birth records. See V I T A L S T A T I S T I C S — h i r t h certificates.
   boat livery, 145
   business records: production as evidence, 199
   cemetery authorities' endowment care funds, 983
   commodity advisers, 1305
   county hospitals, 677
   destruction : county hospitals, 677
   destruction : notaries public, 45
   detention: minors, 260
   injurious materials, 1169
   local agency formation commissions, 1301
   mental patients, 1119
   minors: detention, 260
   motor vehicle licensee health records, 1445
   municipal water districts, 708
   National Guard aircraft accidents, 1267
   notaries public, 45
   notice to produce, 1034
   pesticide use, 1413
   poultry and poultry products, 1403
   pupils' records, 701, 1321, 1363, 1465
   public records act, California: revision, 371
   redevelopment agency and neighborhood council meetings, 955
    Tenderers, 815
   sardines: limitations, 1384
    school governance workshop completion, 1040
    secretary of state's records re notaries public, 1313
    slaughterers, 815
    state college educational opportunity program, 1336
    video tape records : evidence, 646
    X - r a y s : tuberculosis, 269
RECREATION
    alcoholic beverage licenses: certain recreational areas, 1078
    Buena Vista aquatic recreation area project: Kern County, 1235
    California recreational trails act, 674
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
486                                   INDEX

RECREATION—Continued
    community recreation, 754, 1308
    county service a r e a s : tax assessment, 1300
    Dixon dam and reservoir project, 1070
    Estero municipal improvement district, 236
    flood control and water conservation projects, 979
    flood control projects, 262
    Fresno metropolitan flood control district lands, 888
    highway rights-of-way land, 1475
    irrigation district dams, reservoirs, etc., 533, 1046
    land appropriations: most necessary use, 357
    New Melones dam and reservoir, 251
    Oroville reservoir state recreation area, 555
    Point Reyes National Seashore, 373
    Poway water storage project, 1065
    Prado dam and reservoir, 344
    Puddingstone state recreation area, Los Angeles County, 1273
    Sepulveda Dam Basin water reclamation facility, 186
    soil conservation g r a n t s : recreation inclusion, 202
    state highway projects, 1052
    state lands: oil and gas leases, 1426
    underwater parks, 483
    wildlife management areas, 988
R E C R E A T I O N AND P A R K D I S T R I C T S , 194, 197, 1301
R E C R E A T I O N A L T R A I L S ACT, C A L I F O R N I A , 674
R E D L A N D S , CITY OF : Redlands Day at San Bernardino County fair, 285
R E D O N D O BEACH, CITY O F : Redondo state beach : land transfer, 1276
R E D W O O D B I C E N T E N N I A L DISCOVERY DAY, 807
REFUNDS
   city carrier permit application fees, 57
   employment agency license fees, 755
   healing arts practitioners, 1333
   health care deposit fund, 814
   milk, products resembling, manufacturers of: license fees, 634
   property taxation. See P R O P E R T Y T A X A T I O N .
   subpoena service on peace officers, certain, 1187
R E G I O N A L P A R K D I S T R I C T S , 456, 547, 1072, 1116, 1572
R E G I S T R A R , S T A T E . See V I T A L S T A T I S T I C S .
REGISTRATION
   agricultural pest control agents, 1414
   banks: local agency funds depositories, 1483
   boats, ships, etc., 758, 818, 824
   cargo tanks, 175, 187
   charitable trusts, 490
   economic poisons, 1169
   electronic service dealers, 308
   employment agency counselors, 1531
   engineers, professional, 372
   feedlot operators, 743
  firearms, 1428
  grain warehouses, 1348
  industrial engineers, 181, 1080
  insurance adjusters' employees, 1183
  insurance holding company system members, 1275
  interstate highway carriers, 1279
  legislative advocates, 606
  metallurgical engineers, 397
  narcotics, lawful users of, 429
  optometrists, 605
  osteopaths, 1201
  pet food manufacturers, 1241
  physical therapy corporations, 1440
  poultry and poultry products, 1403
  private investigators' employees, 1183
  psychological corporation applicants, 1436
  psychologists, 1209
  repossessors' employees, 1183
  sentry dogs, 1393
  surveyors, land, 372
  •veterinary, premises, 718'
                                          INDEX                                        487

REHABILITATION
    aid to families with dependent children recipients, 1505
    California rehabilitation center inmates: temporary removal, 1425
    department—
       alcoholics, chronic: treatment and rehabilitation programs, 1472
       alcoholism control, etc., programs, 290
       blind, division for: creation and succession to functions re blind persons, 15(?5,
      disabled persons, broadening of programs for, 349
      generally, 1107
      human relations agency, inclusion in, 138
       vocational rehabilitation appeals board : creation, etc., 1565
      workmen's compensation : employment training : duties, 1133
    director: blind college students : study assistance, 1147
   generally, 1107
    workshops: state purchasing, 280
   youth correctional centers, 1193
RELIGION
    autopsies, 1132
   churches : income tax provisions, 1508
   churches: property taxation, 123
   family life and sex education, excusal from: religious belief, 1307-
   Family Prayer, Week of, 40
   mentally ill persons' treatment by prayer, 722
   prenatal blood tests for Rh factor: exemption, 1563
R E L O C A T I O N A S S I S T A N C E , 917, 942, 955, 1228, 1489
RENTALS
   boats, 145
   San Francisco state college downtown center property, 1097
   school districts: motor vehicles, equipment, etc., 1178
REPORTS
   aeronautics, department of: annual report, 712
   aged persons, homes for: property tax exemption study, 266
   airport noise regulations, 1585
   alcoholics' conservators, 722
   armed services medical corps personnel: registered nurse license applications, 1592*
   bank loans to bank officers, directors and employees, 531
  camper safety standards, 314
   campus disorders participants' prior convictions, 1424
   capitol area plan : property acquisition and improvement, 1597
   charitable trusts, 490
   check sellers and cashers' audit reports, 223
  children's center program financing and cost analysis, etc., 347
   children's center teacher training plan, 1503
  college campus disturbance control costs, state subventions r e : study, 306
  commercial fishing program income and expenditures, 1576
  commercial vehicle study, 351
  compensatory education programs, etc., fiscal review and analysis, 784
  contractors' financial statements, 735
  county superintendent of schools, office of: study, etc., 784
  credit union audit reports, 222
  D D T , etc.: effects of use, 315
  Delta levee study, 297
  disabled persons' programs, broadening of, 349
  Douglas Boulevard traffic, 353
  driver training experimental programs, 1454
  drivers' license renewal examination limited to vision tests, 203
  drug abuse research, etc., program evaluation, 1618
  drug abuse services by community mental health programs, 379
  educational television : cost effectiveness, 368
  Eel River flood control, 273, 345
  electronic repair dealer registration bureau activities: annual r e p o r t : repeal, 99-*
  emergency medical care committees, 306
  emergency medical services program, 1084
  endowment care transactions, 983
 environmentally harmful materials, 1169
 escrow agents' audit reports, 224
 Estero municipal improvement district park project: engineer's report, 236
 ethnic variances of students: teachers' in-service preparation program, 1586
 exceptional children enrolled in private schools, etc.: progress reports, 1524
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
488                                    INDEX

REPORTS—Continued
    executive salaries, committed on, 1599
    extended opportunity programs and services, advisory committee on, 1579
    fair employment practices commission, state, 1063
    food crop growing and harvesting sanitation violations, 1017
    forestry district # 3 office relocation, 356
    freeway lane use by mass public transportation: experimental programs, 70?
    freeway location decisions, 445
   genocide telephone campaigns, 342
   governor's economic report, 1323
   higher education, joint committee on, 56
   highway construction contract cost reduction proposals, 926
   industrial loan companies' audit reports, 225
   injurious materials permits, etc., 1169
   innovative school program, 1493
   insurance guarantee association, California, 1347
   insurers' reserves, 705
   intergovernmental management welfare and information systems: implementation,
              1418
   junior or community college transfer students to state colleges or University of
              California : curriculum modification, 322
   justifiable homicide reports, 1089
   juvenile's narcotics, marijuana, etc., offenses while operating motor vehicle, 519
   Kern County Buena Vista aquatic recreation area project, 1235
   laboratory inspection, 1421
   legislative advocates' expense reports, 606
   local agency financial reports, 1170
  low-income home ownership training and management program, 1562
   master teacher selection pilot program, 1617
   Medi-Cal hospital reimbursement rates, 1419
   Medi-Cal intermediate care facility program study, 330
   Medi-Cal payments to pharmacists, 396
  Medi-Cal providers' cost reports, 1274
  Mendocino headland and Big River beach a r e a : state park feasibility study, 220
  mentally ill persons' personal property preserved and safeguarded, etc., 722
  motor vehicle accidents, 19
  motor vehicle exhaust air pollution control device testing program, 650
  motor vehicle violations, 1248
  mountain lion take, 987
  noise control: study, 1042
  oil and gas operators' production reports, 553
  organized crime: attorney general investigations, 1357
  penal code revision joint committee advisory board, 1032
  physical therapy corporations, 1440
  private higher education in California: study, 296
  probation reports, 522
  probation services, state aid for, 1415
 psychological corporations, 1436
 public domain, joint committee on, 370
 public health, legislative action re : suggestions, 253
 public project construction expenditures, 212
 public schools of California : evaluation study, 335
 pupils' achievement evaluation, 1088
 reading and mathematics intensive instruction programs, 1578, 1596
 recreational trails, 674
 regional occupational centers and programs, annual evaluation, 1368
 replacement housing program, Route 105, 917
 residential building use, occupancy and zoning classification, 894
 rhesus isoimmunization hemolytic disease: newborn infants, 1563
Riverside County flood control and water conservation district drainage standby
            assessment, 198
sabbatical leaves, school certificated employees: study, 321
sales tax study, 1532
San Francisco Bay conservation and development commission, 713
San Francisco Bay study, 1232
San Joaquin-Kings River interstream group flood control study, 829
school average daily attendance computation procedure: study, 313
school dropout prevention programs, 1501
school facilities and site planning, etc., coordination, 1308
school health services, 995
school programs, certain: fiscal review and analysis, 784
                                      INDEX                                     489

  school testing programs, 1552
   seismic safety, joint committee on, 378
  sheriffs' report re private investigators' and adjusters' employees, 457
  small college and university campuses: increase: feasibility study, 3-il
  social worker and marriage counselor qualifications board: biennial report, 298;
   Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
  special classes and programs, expenditures and income re, 784
   special-purpose assessing or taxing districts : performance of duties, 931
  state college budgetary procedures : study, 389
  state college expenditures and appropriations comparative report, 1405
  state college fund transfers, 1406
  state college internal audit staff, 1406
  state college student health care needs study, 279
  state highway system study, 1134
  state hospital advisory boards, 459
  state water supply contracts: changes, etc., 298
  status of women, advisory commission on the, 721
  subdivision purchasers' defaults, 763
  summer vocational and technical education programs, 1495
  tear gas weapons, 1231
  television classes for a d u l t s : pilot program in Los Angeles County, 1440
  truancy, 973, 992
  university and college tenure rules: study, llfi
  veterinary medicine school establishment in Southern California, 293
  vocational area committees' progress reports, 1555
  vocational education career ladder feasibility: study, 394
  vocational education evaluation reports, 1555
  voter registration report, 1607
  water projects, 906, 281
  water quality control, 482
  water resources control board, state, 482
  water storage districts, California, 1086
   waterways patrolling and law enforcement: study, 1354
  work experience education programs: funds utilization, e.tc, 518
   youth correctional centers, 1193
R E P O S S E S S O R S , 1183
R E S C U E . See S E A R C H A N D R E S C U E .
RESEARCH
   abandoned animals, 1138
   agricultural marketing order provisions, 217
   drug research advisory panel, 1297
   drug research project, withdrawal of advisory panel approval: drug return require-
               ment, 429
   environmentally harmful materials, 1169
   Indian history and culture, 376
   intergovernmental cooperation act of 1968, 395
   Lake Tahoe public beaches, 1222
   milk and milk products, 217
  narcotics, 429
   rehabilitation center inmates, 1425
   water pollution, 384
RESIDENCE
   constables, 360
   dump truck carrier permit applicants, 1004
   judges and justices, 360
   juvenile probation officers, 60
   Medi-Cal recipients, 21
   municipal court attache's, 97
   state college students, 1018, 1239
   University of California students, 886
   voters, 461, 810
R E S O U R C E S AGENCY
   reorganization: inclusions, etc., 138
   secretary—
      fishing industries survey study design, 328
      forestry district #3 office : relocation, 356
      land exchanges : approval, 985
R E S T A U R A N T S , 411, 815, 969
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
490                                           INDEX

R E S T R A I N I N G O R D E R S , T E M P O R A R Y , 141
R E S T R A I N T O F TRADE, 1234
R E S U S C I T A T I O N , 5T3, 680
R E T A I L T R A N S A C T I O N S AND U S E TAX, 24, 180, 1567, 267
R E T I R E M E N T SYSTEMS. See also COUNTY E M P L O Y E E S ' R E T I R E M E N T
               L A W O F 1937 ; L E G I S L A T O R S ' R E T I R E M E N T S Y S T E M ; P U B L I C
               E M P L O Y E E S ' R E T I R E M E N T SYSTEM ; SCHOOL D I S T R I C T R E -
               T I R E M E N T SALARY P L A N S ; S T A T E T E A C H E R S ' R E T I R E -
               M E N T SYSTEM.
    balance sheet and income statement requirement, 314
    pity retirement system: reciprocal benefits, 1007
    county employees' retirement law of 1937. See COUNTY E M P L O Y E E S ' R E -
               T I R E M E N T LAW O F 1937.
    legislators' retirement system. See L E G I S L A T O R S ' R E T I R E M E N T SYSTEM.
    municipal utility districts : investments, 328
    public employees' retirement system. See P U B L I C E M P L O Y E E S ' R E T I R E -
               M E N T SYSTEM.
    regulation: effect on exemptions from law, 314
    school district retirement salary plans. See SCHOOL D I S T R I C T R E T I R E -
               M E N T SALARY P L A N S .
    state teachers' retirement system. See S T A T E T E A C H E R S ' R E T I R E M E N T
               SYSTEM.
R E V E N U E AND T A X A T I O N CODE
    codification to maintain codes, 29
    technical amendments, 369
REVIEW
    bail orders, 1259
    county superintendent of schools, office of, 784
    economic poisons, 1169
    fair and exposition fund administration, 1293
    flood insurance program, 1115
    flood plans, local agency, 932
    health planning grants, 1457
    innovative schools, 1493
    Medi-Cal hospital charges, 1419
    public assistance appeal decisions, 1255
    reading and mathematics intensive instruction projects, 1578, 1596
    special defenses, 201
    special education program participants' placement, 784
    vocational rehabilitation decisions, 1565
    vocational youth organizations: federal policy, 332
    voluntary area, or local health planning agency: application, 1451
    welfare management, 1418
    youth correctional centers, 1193
R E W A R D S , 412, 1324
R H E S U S I S O I M M U N I Z A T I O N H E M O L Y T I C D I S E A S E ( R H F A C T O R ) , 1563
R I C H A R D M. N I X O N B I R T H P L A C E N A T I O N A L H I S T O R I C A L S I T E , 375
R I C H M O N D , CITY O F : charter amendments, 190
R I D I N G AND H I K I N G T R A I L S , 674, 851, 1572
R I F L E S . See F I R E A R M S .
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
    Cabrillo College, 976
    highways: lease, 1327, 1475
   highways: signs, 1101
   highways: route 54, 1245
   Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
   Napa state hospital property, 1339
    Santa Clara County transit district, 180                                                       v
    state property : certain transfers, 378
    street» or highways: school district, city or county conveyance, 235
    Sweetwater River flood control project, 1245
R I O T AND C I V I L D I S O R D E R S I N S U R A N C E ASSOCIATION, CALIFOR-
               N I A : creation, etc., 649
R I O T S , 649, 1096
R I P A R I A N R I G H T S , 482
RIVERS
   Eel River flood control, 273, 345
   Feather River: flood control project, 1443
   Sacramento River: bank protection project, 134
   Sacramento River : flood control, 1284
   San Diequito River Basin development plan, 336
   San Joaquin-Kings River interstream group: flood control study, 241
                                            INDEX                                   491

   San Joaquin R i v e r : flood control, 1284
   Santa Ana River Basin : flood control, 3^4
   Santa Clara R i v e r : flood control, 256
   Sweetwater R i v e r : flood control project, 1245
R I V E R S I D E , CITY O F : charter amendments, 140
R I V E R S I D E COUNTY
   court reporters, 642
   officers, certain : salary, 1410
    Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
R O B E R T F . F I S H E R B R I D G E , 282
R O D R I G U E S , A L M I R A N T E S A R M E N T O , 77
R O Y A L T I E S , 817, 1114
R U B B I S H D U M P S , 135
R U S S I A N R I V E R R E C R E A T I O N AND P A R K D I S T R I C T , 197

                                               s
SACRAMENTO, C I T Y O F
  parking facility construction, certain: legislative authorization, 408
  state highway landscaping, 317
SACRAMENTO CITY U N I F I E D SCHOOL D I S T R I C T , 841
SACRAMENTO, COUNTY O F
  central committee, Democratic p a r t y : districts, 1317
  charter amendments, 20
  municipal court judges, 1490
SACRAMENTO R I V E R BANK P R O T E C T I O N P R O J E C T , 134
SACRAMENTO-SAN J O A Q U I N D E L T A , 297
SAFETY
  aircraft rescue transmitters, 1460
  Beach Safety Week, 155
  boating safety and enforcement programs, 1354
  campers, 314
  crane boomstops, 683
  Industrial Safety Week, 23
  motorbus national safety standards, 228
  movie theater operating and projection rooms, 615
  oil and gas offshore operations, 260
  radiation, 1338
  school buildings: earthquakes, 333
  school fire and panic safety corrective measures, 997
  school safety patrols, 692
  ships and vessels: industrial safety, 252
   standards: state highway lands, 849
   water skiers: life preservers, 146
SALARIES, WAGES, ETC.
   alcoholic beverage licensee employees: wage claims, 524
   apprenticeship council members, 460, 1360
   armed forces legal officers: incentive pay, 200
   attorney general, 1600
   Bay Area air pollution control district directors, 303
   blind vending stand operators, 1370
   bridge and highway district directors, 1411
   California horse racing board secretary, 1601
   certified shorthand reporters board executive secretary, 673
   children's center employees, 389
   citizen committees or commissions, county, 219
   collection agency conservators, 930
   commerce, director of, 1161
   compensation insurance fund directors, 460
   county officers—
      generally, 1410
      Trinity County, 1411
      Tuolumne County, 1216
   county superintendents of schools, 1432
   county waterworks district board members, 315
   court reporters, 237, 1302, 1491
   courts of appeal officers and employees, 1449
   educational improvement program and cost effectiveness advisory committee, 784
   educational research commission members, 1493
   employment termination for wage garnishment: effect, 1529
 N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
492                                       INDEX

S A L A R I E S , W A G E S , ETC.—Continued
   executive, administrative or professional employees: pay period, 599
   executive s a u r i e s : generally, 1599
   extended opportunity programs and services, advisory committee on: members,
               1579
   fire protection district board members, 206
   forest firefighters, 500
   garbage and refuse disposal district board members, 69
   garnishment. See A T T A C H M E N T , E X E C U T I O N , G A R N I S H M E N T , E T C .
   governor's secretaries, 1581
     rand jurors : Alameda County, 190
  f  ealth planning council standing committee members, 1550
   industrial safety board members, 460
   industrial welfare commission members, 460
   industry and world trade commission, California: members, 1161
   judges and justices, 1507
   legislators: increase, 1580
   Madera County flood control and water conservation agency directors, 916
   marshals and deputy marshals, 172
   master teachers, 1617
   medical students' treatment of sick, etc.: compensation, 616
   minors: work projects with pay, 1023
   Montalvo municipal improvement district directors, 352
   mosquito abatement district trustees, 42
   municipal courts—
      Los Angeles County, 707
      officers and attaches: various districts, 1302, 1491
       San Mateo County, 1212
   municipal utility district directors, 433
   new careers in education participants, 1453
   osteopathic examiners, board of: members, 1201
   overtime: poultry inspectors, 1403
   overtime : state officers and employees, 32
   payroll deductions: school district employees: group insurance, 821
   per diem wages: apprenticeship and training programs, 1502
   Placer County water agency board advisory council members, 358
   professional engineers investigation committee members, 1204
   psychiatric technicians, 1479
   public works employees, 301
   radiologic technology certification committee members, 1504
   redevelopment project area committees, 955
   regional water quality control board members, 482
   Santa Clara County transit district board members, 180
   school district certificated employees, 653, 984, 1015, 1137, 1246, 1262, 1314, 1518,
               1590, 1617
   school district classified employees, 651, 1058, 1312
   school work experience and work study programs, 532, 1257, 1495
   semimonthly payday law : exception, 599
   Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
   state hospital advisory board members, 459
   state officers and employees: deductions: annuity purchase, 801
   state officers and employees: overtime, 32
   superior courts—
      Alameda County, 1184
      commissioners and referees, 1302
      judicial secretary, 1217
      Los Angeles County, 1302
      San Francisco City and County, 1302
   supreme court officers and attaches, 1449
   teacher training institution personnel, 1262
   Tehama County flood control and water conservation district directors, 27
   vocational area committee members, 1555
   vocational education and technical training, California advisory council o n : mem-
               bers, 1555
   wage claims, 1529
   witnesses, out-of-state: expenses, 734
   youth authority work projects, 1023
SALES
   aircraft, 676
   automatic price computation measuring devices, 386
   bank securities, 876
   boats, ships, etc., 406, 676
   capitol building souvenir pieces, 370
                                      INDEX                                      493

   cartridges, blank, 756
   cheese, 544
   city land acquired for street purposes, 665
   commodities : fair packaging and labeling act, 1300
   conditional sales contracts—
      harbor districts, 768
      motor vehicles. See MOTOR V E H I C L E S — s a l e s .
      small claims actions, 491
   county property, 897
   data processing equipment, county, 463
   drycleaning business, equipment, etc., 394
   ferries, 630
   food, certain r e s t a u r a n t : weight provisions : exemption, 411
   hay, 164
   horsemeat, 815
   injurious materials, 1169
   installment accounts, 186
  lettuce, 633
   Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
   milk and milk products, 217
   motor vehicles. See MOTOR V E H I C L E S .
   olive oil, 659
  paint, lead-based, 271
  personal property, 92, 462, 480
  pet food, 815, 1241
  prison-made goods, 909
  public land. See LANDS, P U B L I C .
  real estate syndicate securities, 928
  real property. See R E A L P R O P E R T Y — s a l e s .
   referral sales: home improvement, 1583
   restricted dangerous drugs, 403
   retail installment sales, 186, 353, 554, 625, 669, 1192
  salesmen : home improvement, 1583
   San Francisco state college downtown center property, 1097
   Santa Clara County flood control and water conservation district property, 92
   state lands. See LANDS, S T A T E .
   tax-deeded land : irrigation districts, 1346
   tear gas weapons, 1231
   unclaimed property. See U N C L A I M E D P R O P E R T Y .
  unsolicited merchandise, 265, 400
  vehicles : possessory lienholders: value, 125
   youth authority wards' handiwork, 803
S A L E S AND U S E TAX. See also T R A N S A C T I O N S A N D U S E T A X .
   aircraft jet fuel, 1587
   exemptions : food products, 1533
   exemptions: photographs leased for one newspaper reproduction, 1153
  local: rate increase: transit districts, 180
  state—
      deficiency notices, 368
      exemptions: occasional sale, 447
      exemptions: vehicle, vessel, or aircraft sales to relatives, 676
      food products, 1533
      leased property, 710
      lien on personal property, 915
      sales tax study, 1532
SAN B E R N A R D I N O , CITY O F : charter amendments, U
SAN B E R N A R D I N O COUNTY
  Bighorn Mountains water agency, 1175
   Cucamonga Creek flood control project, 1456
   municipal court officers and attaches, 842
   officers, certain : salary, 1410
   Southern California transportation study commission, 154T
SALMON, 110
SALTON SEA, 883
SAN B E N I T O COUNTY : fish and game refuge 3 B : abolishment, 116
SAN D I E G O , CITY O F
   Pell Plan extension to, 261
   San Dieguito River Basin development plan, S86
SAN D I E G O COUNTY
   appeals court judges, 1487
   charter amendments, 14
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 494                                      INDEX

  SAN D I E G O COUNTY—Continued
      Palomar Mountain state p a r k : land exchange, 1278
      Sunset Cliffs beach erosion control project, 102
      superior court judges, 1490
      Sweetwater River flood control project, 1245
  SAN F E R N A N D O S T A T E H O S P I T A L , 950
  SAN F R A N C I S C O BAY A R E A R A P I D T R A N S I T D I S T R I C T , 24, 180, 267
  SAN F R A N C I S C O BAY CONSERVATION AND D E V E L O P M E N T COMMIS-
                 SION, 713
  SAN F R A N C I S C O BAY PLAN, 713
  SAN F R A N C I S C O , C I T Y A N D COUNTY O F
      charter amendments, 10
      Pell Plan extension to, 261
      San Francisco harbor, 1296, 1400
      San Francisco port transfer: law enforcement employees' retirement provisions, 5
      tide and submerged lands, certain, 1367, 1474
 SAN FRANCISCO-OAKLAND R A P i p T R A N S I T T U B E , 24
 SAN F R A N C I S C O P O L I C E A T H L E T I C L E A G U E , 268
 SAN F R A N C I S C O S T A T E C O L L E G E : downtown center, 1097
 SAN J O A Q U I N C O U N T Y : certain officers: salary, 1410
 SAN J O A Q U I N R I V E R : flood control: special tax levy, 292
 SAN J O S E , CITY O F
      charter amendments, 276
      La Fiesta de las Rosas, 51
      state route 87 : conveyance of property for, 1179
 SAN L E A N D R O U N I F I E D SCHOOL D I S T R I C T , 297
 SAN L U I S O B I S P O C O U N T Y : certain officers: salary, 1410
 SAN MATEO COUNTY
      commercial vehicle use of certain highways: weight restrictions, 1598
      municipal court officers and attaches, 1212
 SAN MATEO J U N I O R COLLEGE D I S T R I C T , 385
 SAN R A F A E L , CITY O F : charter amendments, 208
 S A N I T A R I A N S , 267
 SANITARY D I S T R I C T S , 194, 719
 S A N I T A T I O N : food crop growing and harvesting, 1017
 S A N I T A T I O N D I S T R I C T S , COUNTY, 30, 419, 881
 S A N I T A T I O N SYSTEMS, 318
 SANTA BARBARA, CITY O F : charter amendments, 11, 199
 SANTA B A R B A R A COUNTY
     officers, certain : salary, 1410
     superior court judges, 1480
     tide and submerged lands: cleanup, 648
 SANTA CLARA, CITY O F : charter amendments, 5
 SANTA CLARA COUNTY
    Lower Llagas Creek flood control project, 1456
     Mountain View shoreline regional park community, 1109
    municipal court officers and attaches: compensation, 237
    officers, certain : salary, 1410
    state route 87 : conveyance of property for, 1179
    superior court judges, 1482
SANTA CLARA COUNTY T R A N S I T D I S T R I C T ACT, 180
SANTA CRUZ, CITY O F
    charter amendments, 9
    tide and submerged lands, certain : state grant to, 1291
SANTA CRUZ COUNTY
   officers, certain : salary, 1410
   tide and submerged lands, 1430
SANTA CRUZ M E T R O P O L I T A N T R A N S I T D I S T R I C T , 195
S A R D I N E S , 1384
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS
   examinations by commissioner, 581
   federal savings and loan associations: savings deposits, 179
  guarantee stock, 612
   investment certificates, 179
   investments, 493, 1342
  leases, 1342
  loans—
       mobile dwellings, 879
       real estate, 493
       real property improvement, 879
  shareholders: liability, 612
  tax offsets, 1461
  withdrawable shares, 179
                                     INDEX                                        495
SAVINGS AND LOAN, D E P A R T M E N T O F
  commissioner—•
     savings and loan associations: examination, 581
     savings and loan associations : investments : regulation, 1342
     savings and loan associations : loans : regulation, 879
     savings and loan investment certificates or withdrawable s h a r e s : minimum
             deposit time before redemption, etc.: extension, 179
  division of savings and loan name change to, 138
SAVINGS AND LOAN, D I V I S I O N O F : name change to department of savings
             and loan, 138
SCENIC H I G H W A Y SYSTEM. See HIGHWAYS—«tote.
SCHOLARSHIPS
  campus disorders participation: effect, 1427
  nurses, 1059
  peace officers' dependents, 1616
  state college auxiliary organization funds, 1288
  state scholarship and loan commission: peace officers' dependents' scholarships:
             duties, 1616
SCHOOL D I S T R I C T R E T I R E M E N T SALARY P L A N S
  benefits : disability retirement, 510
  members: junior college district employees, 1166
SCHOOLBUS S A F E T Y W E E K , A6
SCHOOLS
  admission : Mexican residents, 1270
 adult education, 297, 784, 968, 1446
  apportionments—
     adult education, 784
     blind minors: permitted use, 1113
     budget act inadequacies: effect, 784
     building aid, 16, 119, 792
     disaster area property tax reductions: equalization allowances, 129
     disaster areas : 1968-1969, 263
     driver education and training: physically or educationally handicapped minors,
             784
     educational improvement and cost effectiveness programs, 784
     educationally handicapped minors, 784
     elementary districts, 784
     equalization aid, 331
     excess school fund transfers: effect, 784
     foundation program: generally, 784
     generally, 784
     high school districts, 784
     innovative schools, 1493
     junior colleges. See J U N I O R C O L L E G E S .
     kindergartens, 784
     Livermore Valley unified school district, 229
     low wealth districts, 784
     mentally gifted minors, 784
     mentally retarded minors, 784, 1124
     necessary small schools, 784
     physically handicapped minors, 784, 1407
     regional occupational centers and programs, 1368
     severely mentally retarded minors, 784
     special teacher employment programs, 1596
     supplemental support, 331, 784
     television, educational, 1446
     transportation allowances, 331, 1407, 1434
  appropriation bills, 325
  attendance—
     average daily attendance—
        computation, 1494, 313
        kindergartens, 93, 784, 960
        mentally retarded minors, 1124
     innovative schools, 1493
     July 21, 1969: computation, 1391
     kindergartens, 93, 784, 960
     mentally retarded minors: work study programs, 1124
     opportunity programs, 558
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers;   resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
496                                    INDEX

SCHOOLS—Continued
  audiometrists, 836
 bands or orchestras, 1266
 bilingual education, 311, 1130, 1579
  bonds. See B O N D S ,
  breakfast and lunch programs, 1577
  budgeting and accounting, advisory commission on school district: extension, 637
  budgets : innovative schools, 1493
  budgets: preparation and filing, 636
  buildings—
     child care, use for certain, 619
     compensatory education: school housing aid, 1578
     fire and panic safety corrective measures, 997
     planning, design and construction: coordination, 1308
     p l a n s : approval fee, 1019
     state aid : annexation of lapsed districts: effect, 792
     state school building aid law of 1952—
         repayment: deferment, 16
         unified districts: eligibility : bonded indebtedness, 684
         waiver of rights to receive, 613
     trailer coaches, 796
  buses—
     definition, 479
     inspection, 580
     privately owned: registration and license fees, 1444
     school related activities: permitted use, 1392
     Schoolbus Safety Week, 46
     seatbelts : mandatory installation, 363
  certification documents—
     certificates: examinations, etc.: control, 358
     certificates: master teachers, 1617
     credentials—
         academic subject matter requirement: ethnic studies: inclusion, 1551
         designated subject credential in vocational education, 1113
         early childhood teaching, 1503
         extent or type of service authorized, 961
         issuance pursuant to provisions effective prior to 1964, 715
         junior college personnel, 961
         limited service: junior college, 961
         mentally retarded minors' teachers, 1168
         provisional, 961
         restricted credentials, 1168
         standard teaching credential with specialization in early childhood teach-
                 ing, 1503
         standard teaching credential with specialization in elementary teaching,
                 910, 1401
         standard teaching credential with specialization in secondary teaching, 910,
                 1401
         temporary, 1130
    junior college personnel, 961
    life diplomas, 1559
     revocation or suspension: sex education violations, 977
     suspension : failure to notify district of intention to remain : deletion, 540
  class size, 784
  community recreation, 754
 compensatory education—
    credential requirements, 1578, 1596
    dropout prevention programs, 1501
    more effective schools program, 952
    new careers in education act, 1453
    reading and mathematics intensive instruction programs, 1578, 1596
    school housing aid, 1578
    special teacher employment programs, 1578, 1596
 conservation education, 334
 continuation education, 992,1047
 contracts—
    administrative or supervisory personnel, 1545
    day labor use re, 1145
    driver training by commercial driving schools, 1454
    library services, 535
    materials or supplies, 1093
    motor vehicles, equipment, etc.: lease, rental or lease-purchase, 1178
                                        INDEX                                       497

   new careers in education program participation, 1453
   pupil transportation, 1444
   summer vocational and technical education programs, 1495
   television, educational, 62
   transportation of pupils: renewal, 1397
 cost effectiveness programs, 784
 counselors, 1519
 county theatrical schools and institutes, 1348
 courses of instruction—
   driver education and training—
       age, 1103, 1104
       agencies authorized to maintain, 1104, 1573
       commercial driving school training, 1454
       experimental driver training program, 1454
       handicapped minors, 784
       physical education class excusal to attend, 1103
       pupil-teacher ratio, 1573
       student license : minimum age, 382
       teachers: salary, 1590
       trailer coach classrooms, 796
   elementary schools : generally, 1180
   entrepreneur's role in economic development: inclusion, 971
   family life education, 977, 1307
   innovative schools, 1493
   labor's role, etc., in economic development: inclusion, 971
   physical education, 617, 1103
   sex education, 977, 1307
 credits: regional occupational centers and programs, 337
 diplomas, 337, 558
 disruption Of activities, 804
 districts, elementary—
   junior high school tuition payments, 263, 967
    revolving cash fund : limit, 844
    territory transfers, 830
 districts, generally—
   bilingual education demonstration program, 1379
    bonds: junior college district formed from unified district territory, 1166
    boundaries : changes, 158, 598
    driver training districts, experimental, 1454
    earthquake safety tax revenues, excess: accumulation, 1523
    educationally handicapped minors' teachers: loans for specialized preparation,
             1198
    freeway location, information for consideration re, 445
    health services: study, 995
    job market survey, 1368
    kindergarten attendance reports, 93
    lapsation, 792
    loaned equipment: liability, 289
    master teacher selection pilot program, 1617
    materials and supplies contracts, 1093
    Mexican resident students: education, 1270
    new careers in education program participation, 1453
    noncitizen children without immigration s t a t u s : education, 1270
    planning etc., of new facilities and sites, 1308
    preschool programs, 1282
    protective and warning devices and intrusion alarm installation, 1366
    pupils' records: availability, 1321
    reorganization—
        bond factor computation: modification, 830
        county committees on school district organization—
          high school unification proposal defeat three or more times: duties, 1146
           junior college and unified districts' common governing board: assets and lia-
             bility apportionment, 1166
          junior college district formation plans and recommendations, 791
           organization and composition, 458
          plans and recommendations: tax rate, 359
        county master plan : submission, etc., 1299
        lapsed district annexation: bonded indebtedness, 792
        multiple unified district formation proposals, 1299
        pupil enrollment standards, 334
        reorganization of large urban school districts, joint committee on, B90
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
498                                 INDEX

SCHOOLS—Continued
  districts, generally—continued
      reorganization—continued
         salary differentials, 359
         territory transfers, 830
        unification proposal defeat three or more times, 1146
     revolving cash fund : supplies, 921
      small, sparsely populated districts: apportionments, 784
      special classes and programs: expenditures and income report, 784
     specialist reading : inservice training programs, 1310
     street or highway rights-of-way conveyance, 235
     teacher education internship programs, 1168
      teacher training institution personnel assignment contracts, 1262
     traffic control surveys, 1061
      truancy law compliance, 973
     walks, footbridges and tunnels: construction, 161
     work experience or work study education programs, 518, 532
 districts, high school—
     revolving cash fund limit, 844
     unification proposal defeat three or more times, 1146
  districts, joint school: tax rate increase, 476
  districts maintaining community colleges: extended opportunity programs and
              services, 1579
 districts, unified—
     airports outside district boundaries, classes at, 35
     building aid eligibility, 684
     formation, 1146
     q'ails outside district boundaries, classes at, 35
     junior college district formation from territory of, 1166
     revolving cash fund, 844
     territory transfers, 830
 disturbance of school, or school meeting: penalties, 972
 disturbances, generally, 1424
  driver education and training. See subheading, courses of instruction, above,
 dropouts, 1501
 earthquake safety repair, 333
 educational improvement act of 1969, 784
 educational innovation commission, 952
 educational objectives and manpower needs: coordination, 316
 educationally handicapped minors, 784, 1198, 1524
 elections—
     absentee voting, 256
     ballot paper and punchcards, 913
     bond elections, 1174
     candidate's ballot designation and position as incumbent: restrictions, 575
     governing board members, 936, 1513
     Lawndale elementary school district tax override, 23
     territory transfers, 830
    unification elections, 1146, 1299
 elementary schools—
    courses of study, 1180
    dropout prevention programs, 1501
    physical education courses, 617
    textbooks, 1110
 employees, certificated—
    additional duties: payment, 653
    administrators, 784, 1545
    age 6 5 : probationary employees: employment status, 795
    compensation increase: second semester, 1015
    dismissal: statements: custody, 187
    full-time certificated nonteaching employee, 1519
    health and welfare benefits: inclusion in salary computation, 1518
    innovative schools, 1493
   leaves of absence, 984, 321
    less than full year employment, 1137
   less than full-time employment: payment, 653
    master teacher selection panel membership, 1617
   oath of office, 1371
   post-sabbatical leave service: certain unified districts, 72
   pregnancy leaves, 1395
   probationary employees : age 6 5 : employment status, 795
   probationary employees: nonreemployment, 1315
                                       INDEX                                        499,

    pupils' records: consultation, 1321
    ratio of nonteaching to teaching employees, 1519
    sabbatical leaves, 72, 321
    salaries. See S A L A R I E S , W A G E S , E T C .
    schedule of salaries: basis, 1314
    service required after leave of absence, 984
    supervisors, 1545
    teachers. See T E A C H E R S .
    Temple City differentiated staffing program, 295
    termination: failure to notify district of intention to remain, 540
    transfer of secondary school teachers to elementary schools, 841
 employees, classified—
    Classified School Employees' Week, 135
    merit system, 602, 1433
    minimum educational and work experience requirements, 1077
    out of classification work : salary, 1058
    personnel commission membership : prohibition, 602
    personnel commissions, 602, 1058, 1077, 1308
    retired employees : reemployment, 1227
    sick leave, 1433
    transfers: sick leave, 1433
    veterans' credits, 1098
 employees, generally—
    air travel insurance, 938
    breakfast or nutrition period supervision, 1312
    crimes against, 1207
    driver education and training personnel, 1588
    identification cards, 685
    innovative schools, 1493
    instructional aides: special education programs, 1388
    personal property damage or loss : reimbursement, 846
    physical examinations, 685
    pupils' records: furnishing to elected officials, 1363
    pupils' records : production, 701
    sex or narcotic offenses, 685
    transportation to school related activities, 1392
    tuberculosis tests, 685
    unified districts: effect of junior college district formation from district ter-
            ritory, 1166
 ethnic variances of students: teachers' in-service preparation program, 1586-
 evaluation study, 335
 exceptional children, 1524, 152
 family life education, 977, 1307
 fire and panic safety measures, 1366
 food and beverage service, free or reduced price, 937
 funds—
    district: library services, 535
    district: revolving cash funds, 844, 921, 943
    federal—
       bilingual education, 311
       community colleges, 882
       dropout prevention programs, 1501
       more effective schools program, 952
       partial release: review, etc., 120
       television, educational, 1446
       vocational education, 1495, 1555
 governing boards, districts maintaining community colleges: federal program par»
            ticipation, 882
 governing boards, districts maintaining junior colleges: Indian history and cul-
            ture courses and research projects, 376
 governing boards, districts maintaining junior colleges: powers and duties, gen*
            erally, 1026
 governing boards, districts maintaining junior high schools: departmentalized class
            teachers' credentials, 1401
 governing boards, elementary district: course of study: powers and duties, 1180
 governing boards, elementary district: junior high school attendance by certaia
            pupils: powers and duties, 1173
 governing boards, generally—
     administrative positions, increase in : limitations, 784
     architectural and engineering firms: temporary employment, 1308
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
500                                    INDEX

SCHOOLS—Continued
   governing boards, generally—continued
       average daily attendance computation, 1494
       breakfast or nutrition period supervisors: powers and duties, 1312
       budgets: powers and duties, 636
       building aid waiver, 613
       campus control provisions: personnel orientation, 309
       certificated employees' salary increases during school year, 1246
       child care, elementary age children, 619
       classified employees' minimum educational and work experience requirements,
                107?
       classified employees working out of classification: salary increase, 1058
       day labor use, 1145
       employee group insurance, 821
      government and discipline rules, 1265
      instructional aides: designation, 1388
      leaves of absence, certificated employees: powers and duties, 984
      library services contracts, 535
      majority vote requirement, 1053
      members: personnel commission membership: prohibition, 602
      members: workshops, 1040
       opportunity school diplomas, 558
      personal property damage or loss : reimbursement, 846
      pregnancy leaves, certificated employees, 1395
      probationary certificated employees: nonreemployment, 1315
       pupils' achievement evaluation reports, 1088
       pupils' surnames: duties, 1082
       regional occupational center diplomas, 337
       revolving cash fund, purchases of $100 or less: establishment, etc., 943"
       safety patrols, 692
       sex education class attendance: prohibition against requiring, 977
       solicitation of funds, etc., by nonpartisan charitable organizations: approval,
               1223
      testing program results: duties, 1408
      textbooks, basic: selection, 1110
      traffic control surveys, 1061
      transportation for school related activities: authority, 1392
    • vacancies: filling of, 1513
      vocational education advisory committee: appointment, 1495
      walks, footbridges and tunnels: construction, 161
      work experience programs: mentally retarded minors, 1257
  governing boards, high school district: members: dual membership on junior col-
               lege governing board, 495
  governing boards, unified districts—
      elementary school course of study: powers and duties, 1180
      junior college district, common governing board w i t h : members, 733
      junior college formed from certain territory: employees' status re, 1166
 graduation academic standards, 1373, 1552
 handicapped minors, 1110, 1114, 1524
 health education, 1307
 health services: study and report, 995
 hearing tests, 836
 high schools—
      apportionments. See subheading, apportionments, above.
      work experience education programs, 518
 innovative schools, 1493
 insurance: fire insurance: deductible, 1071
 junior high schools, 263, 967, 1173
 kindergartens, 93, 784, 960, 1311
 l a n d s : mineral rights, 1014
 libraries: educational television, 62
 libraries: librarians, 1519
 low wealth districts, 784
 maintenance men, 1145
 maximum class size: special education programs, 784
 meals: free or reduced price, 1577
 mentally gifted minors, 784
 mentally retarded minors, 784, 1124, 1215, 1257,1524
                                       INDEX                                       501

  Miller-TJnruh basic reading a c t -
     allocations, 1310
     allowances, 784
     specialist teachers in reading: employment: allocations, 294
     tests, 1310, 1408, 1552
  minimum school day, 784, 788
  more effective schools program: permissive components, 952
  motor vehicle traffic infractions, 1131
  multiply handicapped minors, 1524
  nutrition periods, 937, 1312, 354
  open space lands agreements, tax revenue decrease from: local aid, 1322
  opportunity schools, 558, 1047, 1295
  paramilitary organizations, 804
  parental schools, 992
  parochial: pupils' records : availability, 1465
  personal property damage or loss: reimbursement, 846
  physically handicapped minors—
     blind minors—
        California school for the blind: attendance, 1331
        experimental programs : preschool, 1612
        instructional materials, 618
        textbooks, 1114
       vocational arts, business arts, or homemaking instruction, 1113
     deaf or hard of hearing 1 minors: California school for the deaf: attendance, 1331
     driver education, 784
     generally, 784
     special education programs: age, 1215
     teachers: credentials, 1113
     transportation allowances, 1407
     tuition, 1524
  prekindergarten summer programs, 1311
  preschool programs, 1282, 1612
  principals—
     driver training class attendance : powers re, 1103
    minors' work and attendance hours: duties, 1589
    outstanding educators of the year, 1568
    pupil suspension, 941
  private—
    exceptional children: tuition, etc., 1524
    Private Education Week, 104
    pupils' records: availability, 1465
    regulation, etc., 1409
  property damage, etc.: reward for information, 1324
  protective and warning devices, and intrusion alarms, 1366
  Public Schools Week, 101
  pupil-teacher ratio, 784,1388, 1519, 1573, 1578
  pupils—
    achievement evaluation reports, 1088
    aliens illegally in United States, 384
    breakfast or nutrition periods: supervision, 1312
    driver education and training courses: age, 1104
    driver training, 1103
    drivers' licenses: age, 382
    dropout prevention programs, 1501
    employment: hours, 1589
    expulsion, 1265
    family life and sex education courses, excusal from: grounds, 1307
    hearing tests, 836
    innovative schools, 1493
    junior high school attendance, 1173
    Mexican residents, 1270
    noncitizen children without immigration status, 1270
    non-English-speaking: bilingual education, 1379
    opportunity programs, 558
    records, 701, 1321, 1363, 1465
    special class or program participation, 652
    surnames, 1082
    suspension, 941, 1265
    trailer coach classrooms: maximum number permissible, 796
    truants, 972, 992
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
502                                       INDEX

 SCHOOLS—Continued
    pupils—continued
        work experience education programs, 518, 532, 788, 1257,1495
       work study programs, 518, 532
   radiologic technology schools, 1504
   records: pupils' records, 701, 1321, 1363, 1465
   regional occupational centers. See VOCATIONAL EDUCATION—regional occu-
               pational centers and programs.
   reorganization of large urban school districts, joint committee on, 290
   safety patrols, 692
 " secondary schools: dropout prevention programs, 1501
   severely mentally retarded minors, 1524
   sex education, 977, 1307
   sites, 1308
   solicitation of funds, etc.: nonpartisan charitable organizations, 1223
   sparsely populated areas, 784, 1434
   special education—
       admission committees, 784
       age requirements, 1215
      educationally handicapped minors, 784
      instructional aides, 1388
      pupil-teacher ratio, 1388
      trailer eoach classrooms, 796
  special schools and classes—
      airports, classes at, 35
      jails, classes at, 35
      mentally retarded minors, 784
      opportunity schools, classes, and programs, 558
      parent or guardian consultation re participation, 652
     physically handicapped minors, 784
  street or highway rights of way conveyance, 235
  student body organizations : expenditure of funds, 1254
  summer schools: July 21, 1969 attendance, 1391
  summer vocational and technical education act of 1969, 1495
  taxation—
      assessed valuation reduction by amount of certain federal, etc., a i d : repeal, 331
     blind and deaf pupils' education expenses, 1331
     boundary changes: effective date, 158
     business inventory exemptions, effect of, 283
     controlled use plan, 784
     county superintendent's statement of tax levy required, 636
     districts in more than one county: procedure, 745
    exceptional children's tuition, 1524
    junior high school pupils' tuition payments, 967
    rates, maximum—
         current rate determination, 784
         low wealth districts, 784
         reorganization proposal, 359
         termination, 784, 1441
    rates, maximum, increase of—
        Albany unified school district: adult education, 297
        continuation education, 1047
        earthquake safety repair, etc., 333, 1523
        fire and panic safety corrective measures, 997, 1366
        joint school district: recovery of certain revenue loss, 476
        opportunity schools, 1047
        San Leandro unified school district: adult education, 297
   regional occupational centers and programs, 745, 1368
television, educational, 62, 1446, 368
testing of pupils, 784, 1310, 1408, 1552
textbooks—
   adoption, distribution, etc., 858
   basic textbooks, 1110
   compilation, etc., 1114
   credits : computation by subject m a t t e r : deletion, 1349
   elementary schools, 1110
   handicapped minors, 1110, 1114
   human reproductive organs: description, etc., 977
   obsolete: donation, 576
   reproduction, 1114
   social sciences, 971
                                      INDEX                                      503

      supplementary textbooks, 1110
      visually handicapped persons, 1114, 1147
  transportation—
      contracts: renewal, 1397
      innovative schools, 1493
      privately owned schoolbuses, 1444
      school related activities, 1392
      station wagon, 10-passenger, 479
   truancy, 972, 973, 992
   tuition—
      exceptional children, 1524
      junior high schools, 263, 967
      7th and 8th grade attendance by elementary district pupils, 967
   veterinary medicine : Southern California, 298
   vocational education. See VOCATIONAL E D U C A T I O N .
   walks, footbridges and tunnels: construction, 161
   work experience education programs, 518, 532, 788, 1257, 1495
   work study programs, 532
   workshops, 1040
SCIENCE, 35, 284
S C I E N C E F A I R S , 81
SEAL B E A C H , CITY O F : charter amendments, 2
S E A R C H AND R E S C U E
   expenses: payment by county of residence, 589
   indemnification of private citizens, 1431
   rescue teams: liability, 573
S E A R C H AND S E I Z U R E , 362, 1412
SECOND V A L I D A T I N G ACT O F 1969, 748
S E C R E T A R I E S ' W E E K , 93                    «
SECRETARY OF STATE
   corporations, domestic: filing fees, etc., 1159
   election duties, 455, 913, 1151, 1383, 1520
   leaves of absence, 2Tt
   notaries public commission denial, etc.: bankruptcy, 78
   notaries public records, 1313
S E C U R E D T R A N S A C T I O N S , 871
SECURITIES
   advertising, 626
   agents, brokers, etc., 626
   banks, 876
   commodity advisers, 1305
   corporation stock—
       acquisition by banks, 895
       merger or consolidation, 376
       paid-in surplus credits, 481
       retention by trustees, 259
   estate securities: exchange: notices, 425
   local agency funds depositories : collateral, 1483
   motor clubs, 858
   municipal utility districts retirement board investments, 328
   public contractors: escrow accounts, 1496
   public securities, 600, 935
   public utilities, 1345
   real estate syndicates, 928
    San Francisco harbor commission, 1400
   savings and loan associations, 612
   share dividends or splits: fees, 626
    stock : acquisition by banks, 892
S E I S M I C S A F E T Y , J O I N T C O M M I T T E E O N : creation, etc., 378
SEIZURE
    cemetery authority assets, books, etc., 983
    drugs, 1091
    radioactive contaminated objects, buildings, etc., 666
S E L F - E M P L O Y E D . See E M P L O Y E R S A N D E M P L O Y E E S .
S E N I O R C I T I Z E N S ' MONTH, 162
SENTENCES
    aircraft damage, willful, 286
   campus disorders, 1122, 1424
    commodity advisers law violations, 1305
    dog regulation and licensing violations, 571
    factory-built housing violations, 1422
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 504                                    INDEX

SENTENCES—Continued
   firearms possession during certain felonies, 954
   harmful matter distribution, etc., to minors, 248
   injury threats, 1207
   Medi-Cal services or merchandise claims, false or fraudulent, 562
   mentally disordered prisoners, 872
   pet food violations, 1241
   prostitution, 1319
   recall, 990
   restricted dangerous drug violations, 403
   water pollution : fish and plant life damage, 1043
S E P A R A T E M A I N T E N A N C E : family law act, 1608
SERVICE OF PROCESS, NOTICES, ETC.
   corporations, 1159, 1278
   debtors: order to appear, 134
   generally, 1610, 1611
   interstate highway carriers, 1279
   juvenile courts, 664
   mechanics' liens: notices, 1468
   revision of provisions, 1610, 1611
S E T T L E R S ' G R A N T S , 854
S E W E R M A I N T E N A N C E D I S T R I C T S , 782
S E W E R S AND S E W A G E
   charges: collection and enforcement, 318
   county water districts, 898
   facilities: district bond elections, 1564
   Lake Tahoe, 800, 1356
   public utility districts: disposal facilities, 1356
   Sepulveda Dam Basin water reclamation facility, 186
   sewage treatment plants, 482
   Ventura County sanitation district, 881
S E X O F F E N D E R S , 685, 722, 961, 1128
S H A S T A C O U N T Y : certain officers: salary, 1410
S H E P P A R D , H A R R Y R., 159
SHERIFFS
   attachment and execution service: fees, 514
   bank accounts for bail and fines received, 279
  campus disorders control costs: reimbursement, 1427
  civil arrest, 690
  consolidation of duties, 343
  debtors, defendant or judgment: service on, 134
  definition: labor law enforcement, 525
  deputy sheriffs: female: duties re female prisoners, 643
  investigators and adjusters, private, reports t o : fees, 457
  justifiable homicide reports, 1089
  juvenile offenders' transportation: youth authority notification, 1197
  keeper fees, 595
  prisoners' confinement reduction, 380
  special appropriati6n, 566
  subpoena service : fees, 514
  witnesses, 342, 1187
SHERMAN INSTITUTE, 2ti
S H O P P I N G C E N T E R S , 373
SHORT-DOYLE ACT. See COMMUNITY M E N T A L H E A L T H S E R V I C E S .
SHORT TITLES
  Arnold-Bee-Kennick Act, 335, 1415
  "Bighorn Mountains Water Agency Law", 1175
  "Budget Act of 1969", 355
  "California Factory-Built Housing Law", 1422
  "California Health Facility Construction Loan Insurance Law", 970
  "California Legislature Airports, Airways and Airport Terminals Development
        and Relocation Act of 1969", 1228
  California Recreational Trails Act, 674
  California School Testing Act of 1969, 1552
  "California Water Quality Improvement Act of 1969", 482
  Carrell Act, 703
  Commodity Advisers Law, 1305
  Downed Aircraft Search and Location Act, 1460
  Educational Improvement Act of 1969, 784
  Elementary and Secondary School Dropout Prevention Act of 1969,1501
                                      INDEX                                        505

  F i r s t Validating Act of 1969, 13
  Intergovernmental Welfare Management and Information Systems Act of 1969,
                1418
   "Interstate Highway Carriers' Registration Act", 1279
   Lanterman Mental Retardation Services Act of 1969, 1594
   Madera County Flood Control and W a t e r Conservation Agency, 916
   "Marler-Johnson Highway P a r k Act", 1327
   McAteer-Petris Act, 713
   "Medi-Cal Conflict of Interest Law", 475
   "Metropolitan W a t e r District Act", 209
   Moscone Automobile Leasing Act of 1969, 1208
   "Mountain View Shoreline Regional P a r k Community Act", 1109
   "Pleasure Riding Tax Law", 1572
   Porter-Cologne W a t e r Quality Control Act, 482
   P u r e Pet Food Act of 1969, 1241
   "Quimby-Walsh Act", 1534
   "Real Estate Syndicate Act", 928
   " S a n t a Clara County Transit District Act", 180
   Second Validating Act of 1969, 748
   Southern California Transportation Study Commission Act, 1547
   State College Educational Opportunity Act, 1336
   Summer Vocational and Technical Education Act of 1969, 1495
   Tear Gas Act of 1969, 1231
   The Dog Act of 1969, 1393
   "The Family Law Act", 1608
   Third Validating Act of 1969, 749
   "Transactions and Use Tax Law", 24
   Tulare County Flood Control District Act, 1149
   Tuolumne County W a t e r Agency Act, 1236
   Uniform Divorce Recognition Act, 1608
   University of California Health Science Facilities Construction Program Bond
                Act of 1969, 1544
   Urban Area Traffic Operations Improvement Act, 1141
   Vocational and Technical Training Act of 1969, 1555
   Vocational Evaluation and Work Adjustment Act of 1968, 1107
   W a t e r Reclamation Law, 482
S H O R T H A N D R E P O R T E R S , 667, 673
S H O T G U N S . See F I R E A R M S .
S H R I M P , 488
S I C K L E A V E : school district classified employees, 651, 1433
S I D E W A L K S , 211, 273, 276
SIGNATURES
   accident statements, motor vehicle, 19
    city incorporation petitions, 324
    construction plans and specifications, 757
    contractors' financial statements, 735
    election candidates' nomination papers, 511, 1151
    initiative and referendum petitions, 774, 940
    insurance policies, 506
    open space lands use restriction instrument, 7
    recall petitions, 511, 774, 940
SIGNS
    Blue Star memorial highways, 823
    El Segundo Freeway, 362
    Eugene A. Doran memorial bridge, 113
    horsemeat use by restaurants, 815
    John R. Trainor memorial bridge, 355
    Norwalk Freeway, 362
    Orange Freeway, 157
    parking restrictions, 541, 777
    railroad crossing stop signs, 840
    real estate brokers, 189
    Robert E. McClure tunnel, 393
    Robert F . Fisher bridge, 282
     slow moving vehicle emblem, 949
     traffic signs. See MOTOR VEHICLES—traffic             signs.
S I S K I Y O U C O U N T Y : certain officers: salary, 1410
S K Y L I N E COLLEGE, 385
S L A U G H T E R E R S , 304, 815, 1326, 1403
SNOW REMOVAL, 329, 725
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
506                                       INDEX

S N O W M O B I L E S , 1075, 1242
SOCIAL S E C U R I T Y , F E D E R A L
   county retirement system, 1329
   unemployment trust fund, 1250
   voters' registration affidavits, 402, 1543
SOCIAL W E L F A R E , D E P A R T M E N T O F
   adult male residing with family: standards re expense sharing, 141?
   blind aid applicants and recipients: notification to department of motor vehicles,
               1445
   children's center program financing and cost analysis, etc., 347
   cost-of-living adjustments: computation, 998
   director—
      appeals and review: duties, 1255
      basic health care services, Medi-Cal: duties, 1079
      organizational living allowances, 1041
   educational trust funds, public assistance recipients, 318
   homemaker and attendant care services : allocations, 660
   intergovernmental welfare management and information systems a c t : duties, etc.,
               1418
   Medi-Cal providers' statements: submission date, 1292
   mentally retarded recipients of aid to disabled: private institutional care, 1416
   nonmedical protective living arrangement recipients' board and care allowances:
               allocations, 660
   preschool educational programs, 1282
   public assistance recipients: organizational living allowances, 1041
SOCIAL W O R K E R AND M A R R I A G E COUNSELOR                             QUALIFICATIONS
               BOARD, 298
S O I L S T E W A R D S H I P W E E K . 109
SOLANO C O U N T Y : superior court judicial secretary, 1217
SOLANO COUNTY F L O O D CONTROL A N D W A T E R C O N S E R V A T I O N D I S -
               T R I C T , 374
SONOMA COUNTY
   bridge and highway district directors, 1286
   officers, certain : salary, 1410
    Sonoma Creek flood control, 1038
S O R O P T I M I S T CIVIC L E A D E R S H I P W E E K , 4
S O U T H BAY DAILY B R E E Z E , 364
S O U T H E R N C A L I F O R N I A R A P I D T R A N S I T D I S T R I C T , 387, 1547, 1567
S O U T H E R N C A L I F O R N I A T R A N S P O R T A T I O N STUDY COMMISSION ACT,
                1547
S O U V E N I R S : state capitol building, 370
S P A C E P I O N E E R S DAY, 302
S P A N I S H . See F O R E I G N LANGUAGES.
S P A N I S H - A M E R I C A N V E T E R A N S MONTH, 78
S P R I N K L E R SYSTEMS, AUTOMATIC, 661, 798
S Q U A R E DANCE W E E K , 102
S T A G H O R N S C U L P I N , 488
S T A M P S . See P O S T O F F I C E .
STANDARDS
   aircraft rescue transmiting devices, 1460
   airport noise standards, 1585
   buttermilk, 537
   commodity advisers, 1305
   crane boomstops, 683
   driver instructors, 1454
   fire alarm and automatic sprinkler systems, 798
   grape maturity, 176
   high school graduation academic standards, 1373
   junior college limited service credentials, 9 6 l
   juvenile hall confinement, 1240
   lettuce, 633
   mass public transportation use of freeway lanes, 703
   milk and milk products, 537
   motor vehicle air pollutant emissions, 847, 1253
   motorbus national safety standards, 228
   painting, 820
  pet foods, 1241
  poultry and poultry products, 1403
   public accommodations : accessibility to handicapped persons, 1560
  public assistance, 286
   radiologic technologists, 1504
   reading and mathematics intensive instruction project approval, 1596
                                      INDEX                                     507-

   reading and mathematics intensive instruction projects, 1578
   recreational trails, 674
   regional occupational centers and programs, 953
   school district unification, pupil enrollment factor, 334
   state hospital program directors, 907
   sprnmer vocational and technical education programs, 1495
   water standby charges, 377
   wine exchanges, 381
   youth correctional centers, 1193
S T A N I S L A U S C O U N T Y : certain officers : salary, 1410
S T A T E BAR : certain veterans' admission, 587
S T A T E C O L L E G E E D U C A T I O N A L O P P O R T U N I T Y ACT, 1336
STATE COLLEGES
   admission—
      fees: employees, and their children or spouses, 1570
      junior college students, 300
      priorities, 300
      teacher credential holders, 300
      veterans, 300, 392
   auxiliary organizations, 1288
   bonds, 1100
   budgetary procedures: study, 389
   Campus disorders, 1122, 1424, 1427, 306
   contracts—
      arbitration provisions, 1462
      auxiliary organization annual audit, 1288
      service contracts, 1351
   courses of study: Indian history and culture, 316
   curriculum requirement: junior or community college transfers, 3%%
   doctoral degree: joint award with private college or university, 1125
   education major, 1401
   educational opportunity program, 1336
   employees—
      academic employees: campus disorders participation: disciplinary measures,
               1427
      academic employees: tenure: study, etc., re rules, 146
      administrative employees: campus disorders participation: disciplinary meas-
               ures, 1427
      admission or tuition fees, 1570
      group life and disability insurance, 993
      tenure: repeal of obsolete provisions, 391
      unauthorized entry to campus after suspension or dismissal, 1424,
   expenditures and appropriations comparison report, 1405
   expenditures, certain: responsibility, 996
   fees, 8, 1492, 1570
   financial affairs : legislative intent, 1406
   Fresno state college: quitclaim to certain property, 1515
   fund transfers, 1406
 ' internal audit staff, 1406
   new careers in education program: participation, 1453
   physical violence against students or teachers, 1122
   presidents—
      auxiliary organizations' expenditures, etc.: duties, etc., 1288
      campits disorders: powers and duties, 1427
      expenditure of certain funds: responsibility, 996
   special projects coordinator, 1288
   student body centers: construction, financing, etc., 1106
   student body organizations, 1106, 1288
   students—
      campus disorders participation : effect, 1427
      disadvantaged students: educational opportunity program, 1336
       financial aids records, 1288
       foreign nonresident: tuition, 1605
       health care needs: study, 2T9
       junior or community college transfers: curriculum requirements, 322
       new careers in education program, 1453
       nonresidents : graduate students: tuition fees, 1492
       residence, 1018, 1239
       rules of student conduct, 1427
       state aid: campus disorders participation: effect, 1427
       state college educational opportunity grants, 1336
       unauthorized entry to Gampus after suspension or dismissal, 1424
       visually handicapped: teaching materials, etc., 1147
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
508                                     INDEX

S T A T E COLLEGES—Continued
    tenure. See subheading, employees—academic employees, above,
    t e r m : change of references from semester to, 390
    trustees—
         auxiliary organization accounting and financial system: powers and duties, 128»
        campus control provisions: personnel orientation, 309
        educational opportunity program, 1336
        expenditures and appropriations comparison : duties, 1405
        federal grants, programs and l o a n s : acceptance, participation, etc., 1351
        fund control and responsibility, 389
        funds and expenditures: powers and duties, 1406
        group life and disability insurance for employees, 993
         Indian history and culture courses and research projects, 376
        internal audit staff, 1406
         junior or community college transfer students: curriculum, 322
         nonresident foreign graduate students' tuition fees, 1492
        purchases, 1429
         San Francisco state college downtown center: rent, lease, etc., 1097
        state polytechnic college property : sale, 750
        student health needs study, 279
        tuition fees, foreign nonresident: powers and duties, 1605
        undergraduate instruction : strengthening importance and quality» 337
    tuition—
        foreign nonresident students, 1605
        full-time employees and dependents, 1570
        new careers in education interns, 1453
        nonresident graduate students: waiver or reduction, 1492
        resident students, 1018
    undergraduate instruction, 337
S T A T E C O N T R A C T ACT, 1036
 S T A T E O F C A L I F O R N I A . See C A L I F O R N I A , S T A T E O F .
S T A T E T E A C H E R S ' R E T I R E M E N T SYSTEM
    agriculture and services agency, inclusion in, 138
    benefits: retired members, 962
    contributions—
        employers, 521, 1069
        members, 521, 1118
        state, 1548
    fund, retirement—
        employers' contributions, certain, 1069
        investments, 221
        state deposits, 1548
    members—
        contributions, 521, 1118
        innovative school employees, 1493
        retired members: allowances, 962
        retired members: reemployment, 1382
        retirement conditions, 165
   revision of provisions, generally, 896,1069
S T A T E W A T E R QUALITY C O N T R O L ACT, 482
S T A T U T E O F L I M I T A T I O N S . See ACTIONS A N D PROCEEDINGS—limi-
                tations.
S T E U B E N S O C I E T Y O F A M E R I C A , 183
STOCKTON P O R T D I S T R I C T , 280
STORAGE
   blasting caps, 568
   cotton, 392
   food, 392
STORMS, 52, 99
STREETS
   city—
       flood or storm damage: relief, 52
       freeway construction: closure agreements, 515
       gas tax revenue allocations, 725
       sidewalk and curb construction outside of jurisdiction, 276
   improvement act of 1911—
       assessment districts, 874
       assessments, 513, 1219
       bonds, 202, 770,1221
                                         INDEX                                         509

      construction contracts: assignment of benefits: effect, 871
      gas supply mains and appurtenances: agreements, 251
      sidewalk and curb construction : block frontage, 27(3
      sidewalk and curb construction: certain areas, 276
      sidewalk repair notices, 211
      street lighting, 184, 766
   improvement bond act of 1915: bond maturity, 771
   lighting, 184, 766
   municipal improvement act of 1913—
      assessments: public property, 513
       bonds, 770
      improvement fund surplus credit against assessments, 440
   select system of city streets: highway fund expenditure agreements, 746
   sidewalks, 211                                            i
   summary vacation and abandonment of, 665
   superintendent: certain sidewalk and curb construction: powers and duties re, 27§
   T O P I C S projects, 1141
   traffic control and directional signs for highways, 1101
   traffic control devices, 1033, 1061
S T R E E T S AND H I G H W A Y S C O D E
   codification to maintain code, 234
   technical amendments, 294
SUBDIVISIONS
   defaulting purchasers, 763
   industrial subdivisions, 373
   interest i n : transfer or control documents: changes, 121
   island highways as part of, 723
   land projects, 763
SUBPOENAS
   commodity advisers law violations, 1305
   duces tecum, 199, 819, 1034
   inquest hearings, 1220
   peace officers, certain, 1187
   pupils' records, production of, 701
   service on witnesses, 311
   sheriff's service fees, 514
SUBROGATION, 846, 1420
S U M M E R VOCATIONAL AND T E C H N I C A L E D U C A T I O N ACT O F 1969, 1495
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION
    associate: appointment, etc., 361
    associate: designation to represent at commission, etc., proceedings, 1575
    breakfast and lunch programs for low income family children, 1577
    county school service fund special education allowances, 784
    deputy : appointment, etc., 361
    deputy: designation to represent at commission, etc., proceedings, 1575
    disaster area property tax reductions: equalization allowances, 129
    driver education and training advisory and consulting unit, authority to establish:
               deletion, 1588
    driver education and training personnel: employment, 1588
    driver training districts, experimental: selection, etc., 1454
    educationally handicapped minors' teachers' loans for specialized p r e p a r a t i o n :
               powers and duties, 1198
    Enterprise city school district apportionments: withholding of certain amount, 523
    federal categorical a i d : consolidated application and administrative procedures:
               committee, 385
    kindergarten attendance : computation, 93
    leaves of absence, 277
     Livermore Valley unified school district apportionments: withholding certain, 229
    master teacher selection pilot program: powers and duties, 1617
     mentally gifted minors' program: duties, 784
     physically handicapped minors' transportation allowances, 1407
     private educational institutions: regulation, etc., 1409
     private higher education in California : study, 296
     school certificated teaching and nonteaching employees r a t i o : duties, 1519
    school fire insurance deductible : approval, 1071
    special education programs: approval, 784
    television classes for adults, certain: establishment, etc., 1446
    transportation allowances, sparsely populated a r e a s : determination, 1434
    truancy law compliance report forms: preparation, 973
    work experience education programs: allocations, etc., 518
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
510                                     INDEX

S U P E R V I S O R I A L D I S T R I C T S , 64
SUPPORT
   artificial insemination, child born of, 1615
  family law act, 160?, 1608
  minors, 1202
S U R V E Y O R S , LAND, 343, 3T2, 474, 1364, 1468, Ud
SURVEYS, 1061, 1121, 1238
S W I M M I N G POOLS, 583
                                          T
T A H O E R E G I O N A L P L A N N I N G AGENCY, 1343
T A H O E R E G I O N A L P L A N N I N G COMPACT, 1343
T A X COLLECTORS, COUNTY, 63, 343, 638, 1346
TAXATION
   Antelope Valley-East Kern water agency, 33
   banks. See BANK AND C O R P O R A T I O N TAX.
   cities—-
       assessment and collection functions: transfer to county, 4
      business inventory exemptions, effect of, 283
       retirement homes, 266
   counties—•
       county road divisions, 1025
       documentary transfer tax, 1102
       education boards and county superintendents of education: support, 744
       pleasure riding tax, 1572
   county service areas, 30
   Crestline-Lake Arrowhead water agency, 109
  districts—
      business inventory exemptions, effect of, 283
       community services districts, 538
       highway lighting districts, 171
       irrigation districts, 63
       Lassen-Modoc County flood control and water conservation district, 82
       municipal water districts, 71
       pleasure riding tax, 1572
       police protection districts, 1048
       reclamation districts, 292
       San Francisco Bay Area rapid transit district, 24
       sanitation districts, county, 30
       sewer maintenance districts, 782
       Southern California rapid transit district, 1567
      Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
   federal: effect of business state tax incentives, 920
   income tax. See INCOME TAX.
   livestock in-lieu tax, 1057
   local agencies: aircraft or ship operations, certain, 1191
  local agencies: transmittal of funds received by state, 2
   Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
   Mojave water agency, 34
   Orange County flood control district, 295
   Placer County water agency, 358
  property tax. See P R O P E R T Y T A X A T I O N .
   revenue sharing: legislative joint committee on national tax policy, 175
  sanitation districts, county, 419
   Santa Clara County transit district, 180
  s t a t e : insurers, 736, 860, 1455
  tax sales: irrigation districts, 63
   transactions and use tax, 24, 1567
  Ventura County flood control district, 407
TEACHERS
  bilingual teachers, 1130
  certified master teacher law of 1970, 1617
  children's center permits: training programs, 1503
  classroom teachers, 1519
  compensatory education, 1453, 1578, 1596
  driver training, 1573,1590
  early childhood teaching, 1503
  educational research commission membership, 1493
  educationally handicapped minors' teachers, 1198
  ethnic variances of students: in-service preparation program, 1586
  examinations, certificates, etc.: control, 858
  innovative schools, 1493
                                         INDEX                                         513-

  in-service training: specialist reading, 1310
  institutions, classes in, 910
  internship programs: mentally retarded children's teachers, 1168
  joint committee on teacher licensing and public school employment, 26
  kindergartens, 960
  life diplomas, 1559
  master teacher selection program, pilot, 1617
  jaew careers in education act, 1453
  bath of office, 13T1
  physically handicapped pupils, certain teachers of: credentials, 1113
  post-sabbatical leave service, 72
   private school teaching credit toward life diplomas, 1559
  regional occupational centers, 337
  retirement benefits. See S T A T E T E A C H E R S ' R E T I R E M E N T S Y S T E M .
   Sacramento city unified school district, 841
   substitute teachers, 1262, 1314, 1382
   television, educational: in-service training, 62
   Temple City differentiated staffing program, 295
  training institution assignments, 1262
T E A R GAS ACT O F 1969, 1231
T E L E G R A P H : anatomical gifts : telegraphic message, 268
TELEPHONES
   anatomical gifts: telephonic message re, 268
  autopsy authorization, 1132
   genocide telephonic campaign, 342
TELEVISION
   color picture t u b e s : labeling, 694
   educational television. See SCHOOLS.
   translator station facilities and services, 188
   video tape records, 646
T E M P L E C I T Y : teacher differentiated staffing program, 295
TEMPORARY LEGISLATION
   1969, legislation terminating in—
      alcoholic beverage license extension : disaster areas, 94
      water appropriation fee plan, 1087
   1970, legislation terminating in—
      aged persons, homes for: property tax exemption study : report, 266
      airport noise regulations report, 1585
      atomic development and space, joint committee on : existence, 338
      Bay Area regional organization, joint committee on : existence, 346
      children's center program financing and cost analysis, e t c . : report, 341
      city carrier permit application fee refunds, 57
      commercial vehicle study report, 351
      DDT, etc., study : report, 315
      disabled persons' programs, broadening of: report, 349
       Douglas Boulevard traffic study report, 353
      drivers' license renewal examination limited to vision t e s t s : progress report, 203
       drug abuse services of community mental health program, 379
       education aid, federal: consolidated application form and administrative pro-
              cedure proposal, 385
       Eel River flood control: report, 345
       fish packing and reduction privilege tax, 1614
       forestry district #3, office relocation : report, 356
       genocide telephone campaigns : reports, 342
       higher education, joint committee o n : existence and report, 56, 848
       juvenile fugitive criminals: procedures re, 1011
       legislative building space needs, joint committee o n : existence and report, 89
       Medi-Cal intermediate care facility program study report, 330
       Medi-Cal payments : pharmacists : report, 396
       Mendocino headland and Big River beach area, state park feasibility study :
               report, 220
       motor vehicle exhaust air pollution control device testing program, 650
       ocean fish resources utilization: master inventory and master plan first p h a s e :
               submission, 1384
        Oroville reservoir state recreation area boat launching facilities, etc., construc-
                tion of: availability of funds, 555
       private higher education in California : study : report, 296
       property tax welfare exemption, certain nonprofit corporations, 123
       public domain, joint committee on : report, 370
        Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta levee study report, 291
 N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
512                                      BSTDEX

T E M P O R A R Y LEGISLATION—Continued
   1970, legislation terminating in—continued
      sales tax liability computation: report, 1532
      San Joaquin-Kings River interstream group flood control study: report, 329
      school building fire and panic safety corrective measures: tax rate increase, 997
      school district tax use control p l a n : submission to legislature, 784
      seismic safety, joint committee o n : progress report, 378
      state college student health care needs study : report, 279
      unified school districts, certain: building aid eligibility, 684
      uninsured motorists claims: medical payments coverage deduction: prohibition,
              1353
      vocational area committees: reports, 1555
      waterways patrolling and law enforcement: study and report, 1354
      youthful drug abusers study and proposed treatment programs: report, 377
   1971, legislation terminating in—
      airport noise advisory committee, 1585
      architectural and engineering firms' temporary employment by school districts*
              etc., 1308
      armed services medical corps personnel: registered nurse licenses: report, 1592
      blood gas analysis: persons authorized to perform, 108
      children's center teacher training programs p l a n : report, 1503
      commercial fishing program income and expenditures: report, 1576
      county superintendents of schools, office of: review and study, etc., 784
      drivers' license renewal examination limited to vision t e s t s : final report, 203
      farm vehicles, certain, use of highways, 28
     fire protection district board members' compensation increase, 206
      garbage and refuse disposal district board members' compensation, 69
      Golden Gate bridge and highway district transportation facilities plan, 805
     junior college tax rate increases, certain, 591
     juries in criminal cases: separation, deliberation, etc., provisions, 520
     magpies, yellow-billed, as nonprotected birds, 299
      milk and milk products standards: certain administrative provisions, 537
      minimum school day, kindergartens or mentally retarded minors' classes, 784
      municipal court officers and employees, certain: salary schedule, 1302
      new car dealers policy and appeals board, 1031
      ocean fish resources utilization: master inventory and master p l a n : submission,
              1384
     prenatal rhesus (Rh) blood tests, 1563
      Sacramento City unified school district secondary teachers' authorization to
             teach elementary grades, 841
     school building aid bond requirements, certain, 792
     school fire and panic safety measures: tax rate increase, etc., 1366
      Southern California transportation study commission: progress report, 1547
     state highway system study: report, 1134
     status of women, advisory commission on, 721
     Ventura County flood control district: tax rate limit increase, 196
     vocational education career ladder feasibility study: report, 394
     work experience education programs: reports, 518
  1972, legislation terminating in—
     bilingual education demonstration program, 1379
     commercial fishing fee and tax increases, certain, 1576
     constables, certain membership in county employees' retirement system, 83
     criminal investigations: report and provisions re organized crime, 1357
     driver training experimental program: report, 1454
     highway construction contracts cost reduction provisions, 926
     junior college district and unified district with common governing board: mem-
             bers' election, etc., 733
     low-income home ownership training and management program, 1562
     reading and mathematics intensive instruction programs, 1578, 1596
     school district budgeting and accounting, advisory commission on, 637
     Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
     special teacher employment programs : compensatory education, 1596
     television classes for adults: pilot program in Los Angeles County, 1446
  1973, legislation terminating in—
     armed services medical corps personnel: registered nurse licenses: report, 1592
     assembly, places of: inspection fees, 919
     emergency medical services program: report, 1084
    fish and game commission's plenary regulatory authority, 110
    master teacher selection program: report, 1617
    outstanding educators of the year awards, 1568
    school district maximum tax rate provisions, 784
    state highway construction needs estimate, 1134
                                             INDEX                                           513

      1974, legislation terminating in—
        driver training experimental program: existence and final report, 1454
        health facility construction loan insurance l a w : report, 970
        intergovernmental welfare management and information systems act, 1418
        metropolitan water district bonds: authority to issue, 230
        seismic safety, joint committee o n : final report, 378
        youth correctional centers: reports, 1193
     1975, legislation terminating in—
        freeway lane use by mass public transportation, 703
        insurance and annuities: interest rates, 1574
        radiologic technologists, provisions re, 1504
        school building earthquake safety repair, etc.: tax rate increase, 333, 1523
        state highway districts allocations: computation, 1134
        tires with metal-type s t u d s : permitted use on state highways, 169
     1979, legislation terminating in—
        Marin County: tidelands improvement, 1375
 T E N U R E . See J U N I O R C O L L E G E S — employees — academic                  employees;
                 SCHOOLS—employees, certificated; S T A T E C O L L E G E S — e m p l o y e e s -
                academic employees; U N I V E R S I T I E S A N D C O L L E G E S ; U N I V E R -
                SITY O F CALIFORNIA—employees—academic                      employees.
 T H E A T E R S , 615, 1534, 1535
 T H E F T : grand theft, 1171
 T H I R D V A L I D A T I N G ACT O F 1969, 749
 T H O U S A N D OAKS, CITY O F : Ventura County waterworks district No. 6
                merger, 434
T I D A L WAVES, 419
T I D E AND S U B M E R G E D LANDS. See L A N D S , S T A T E .
T O A S T M A S T E R S W E E K , 67
TOBACCO : Youth Temperance Education Week, 54
T O I L E T S , 428. 808
T O P I C S P R O G R A M , 1141
T O R T S : claims against decedents' estates, 959
T O U R I S M AND V I S I T O R S E R V I C E S , D I V I S I O N O F , 138, 891, 1161
T R A F F I C . See also MOTOR VEHICLES—traffic regulations;                   MOTOR VEHI-
               CLES—violations.
    control devices: generally, 1033
    control devices: near schools, 1061
    control signs : highways, 1101
TRAILERS
    house trailers and trailer coaches: school classrooms, etc., 796
    motor club services, 858
    trailer p a r k s : tenancy termination, 1500
TRAINOR, J O H N R., S55
T R A N S A C T I O N S AND U S E TAX, 24, 1567
T R A N S I T D I S T R I C T S AND A U T H O R I T I E S
    Santa Clara County transit district, 180, 1448
    Santa Cruz metropolitan transit district, 195
TRANSPORTATION
   abalone meat, 689
   blasting caps, etc., 568
   California Transportation Week, 148
   carriers, 865
   cattle, 730, 743
   explosives, 568
   flammable liquids, 1214
   horsemeat, 815
   interstate highway carriers, 1279
  juvenile offenders, 1197
  lettuce, 633
  logs and poles, 816
  mass public transportation : freeway use, 703
  pet or animal food, 815
  pomegranates, 672
  poultry and poultry products, 1403
  radioactive materials, 601
  restricted dangerous drugs, 403
  sentry dogs, 1393
  Southern California transportation study commission act, 1547
  state transportation board: creation, 1404
  tear gas weapons, 1231
  transportation facilities p l a n : Golden Gate bridge and highway district, 805
  urban public transit systems, $16
  wild animals and birds, 975
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
   131—1954
514                                    INDEX

T R A N S P O R T A T I O N A G E N C Y : name change to business and transportation
                  agency, 138
T R A N S P O R T A T I O N W E E K , C A L I F O R N I A , 11,8
T R A P S , 488, 987
T R A V E L S E R V I C E : motor clubs, 858
TREASURER, STATE
    disability fund investments, 829
    leaves of absence, 277
   transfer of duties from California districts securities commission, 1396
   University of California health science facilities construction program committee:
                  membership, 1544
T R E A S U R E R S , CITY : bond interest coupons : duties, 771
T R E A S U R E R S , COUNTY, 343, 638, 771, 1086
TRIALS
   absence of adverse party : notice, 85
   bonds, undertakings or deposits, certain: liability, 141
   forum of convenience: court with subject matter jurisdiction, 345
   motor vehicle conditional sales contract actions, 724
   new t r i a l s : inadequate or excessive damages, 115
   new t r i a l s : ruling on motion, 87
   retail installment sales, 669
   venue. See V E N U E .
T R I N I T Y COUNTY
   officers, certain: salary, 1410
   supervisors' salaries, 1411
T R U S T C O M P A N I E S , 327, 354, 877
T R U S T D E E D S , 1186, 1468
T R U S T S AND T R U S T E E S
   charitable trusts, 490
   co-trustees: powers, 113
   educational trust funds : public assistance recipients, 318
   inter vivos trusts, 647, 1172, 1607
   multiple trustees : powers, 113
   powers of appointment, 155, 468
   real estate licensees: conversion, 729
   state college auxiliary organizations, 1288
   trustees—
      corporations : arrangement plans, 322
      inter vivos trusts, 1172
      stock, certain: retention, 259
      testamentary trusts, 272
TUBERCULOSIS
   cattle, 1525, 92
   Medi-Cal recipients, 811
   school employment, generally: test requirement, 685
   X - r a y s : records, 269
T U L A R E COUNTY
   flood control district, 1149
   officers, certain: salary, 1410
   supervisors: Tuolumne County water agency duties, 1236
T U L A R E COUNTY FLOOD CONTROL D I S T R I C T ACT, 1149
T U N N E L S AND T U B E S
   Olympic tunnel: name change, 393
  Robert E. McClure tunnel, 393
   San Francisco-Oakland rapid transit tube, 24
T U O L U M N E COUNTY : supervisors: salary, 1216
T U O L U M N E COUNTY W A T E R AGENCY ACT, 1236
T W I N L A K E S S T A T E BEACH, 1129

                                         u
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
 decedents' estates, 856
 disposition, 857
 firearms, 789
 moneys left in local agency treasuries, 655
 tangible personal property: use by department of parks and recreation, 838
 veterans: deceased or former residents of veterans' home of California, 1139
UNDERTAKINGS
 bail. See B A I L .
 malpractice actions: defense costs, etc., 608
 optometry law violations, 640
                                        INDEX                                      515

  physicians and surgeons, etc., certain actions against: defense costs, 560
  restraining orders, temporary, or preliminary injunctions: security for, 141
  vessel owners, 758
UNEMPLOYMENT I N S U R A N C E
   appeals board: disputed disability benefit coverage decisions : effect, 885
  contributions—
      disputed coverage, 885
      lien on personal property, 915
      refunds or credits, 885
      voluntary disability plan assessments, etc.: refunds, etc., 885
  definitions: employer, 828
  disability benefits—•
      disputed coverage, 885
      hospital benefits, 584
      voluntary plans, 885
  employers: hospital operators, 828
  employers: lien on personal property, 915
  federal unemployment trust fund: appropriations, 1250
  funds : disability fund, 829
  referees: disputed disability benefit coverage decisions: effect, 885
  wages, 828
U N E M P L O Y M E N T I N S U R A N C E CODE
  codification to maintain code, 291
  technical amendments, 216
U N I F O R M S T A T E L A W S : divorce recognition act, uniform, 1608
U N I T E D N A T I O N S DAY, 380
UNITED STATES
  aid to families with dependent children, 339
  air force personnel: real estate licensees, 98
  Angelo Noce commemorative stamp and week, 22
  armed forces legal officers: incentive pay, 200
  armed forces retirees: pay equalization, 201
  Berlin's Volkfest, U.S. A r m y : observance: best wishes, 218
  bilingual education, 311
  business tax deductions, 320
  businesses: flood and storm damage assistance, 99
  Canada-United States Goodwill Week, 147
  Castaic reservoir comprehensive plan : cooperation, 258
  cattle reacting to tuberculosis or brucellosis t e s t s : indemnification, 92
  cemeteries, national: San Luis dam. 238
  continental shelf land boundaries: Ventura County, 1044
  documentary transfer tax, 1108
  firefighter services, prisoner: workmen's compensation, 1112
  flood control—
      Alhambra Creek flood control project, 74
      assistance ; 75, 872
      Carpinteria Valley watershed project, 172
     New Melones dam and reservoir project, 251
      project planning, 262, 297
      San Joaquin-Kings River interstream group, 241, 329
      Santa Clara River flood control project, 256
      Santa Paula Creek project, 184
      state cooperation, 1443, 1456
  flood insurance, 1115
  food-stamp and commodity distribution programs, 289
  fringe parking facility demonstration projects, 1051
  grazing fees, federal lands, 82
  highway aid, 703, 288
  holidays, national: July 20, 302
  illegal e n t r a n t s : education allowances, 384
  immigration law, 327
  income tax. See I N C O M E TAX—federal
  Indian programs: participation by California Indians, 374
  Indians, Washoe: lands in Alpine County, 270
  injurious material control and regulation : applicability, 1169
  intergovernmental cooperation act of 1968, 395
  jet aircraft supersonic boom damage: examination of problems re, 194
  lumber costs : study, 210
  Marine Mineral Technology Center, 304
  maritime academy, California: funding, 287
  Medi-Cal accounts payable: claims, liens, etc., against, 807
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
516                                    INDEX

U N I T E D STATES—Continued
  Mexican-California border crossing restrictions re minors, 91
  motorbus national safety standards, 228
  narcotics and dangerous drug flow into California: assistance in checking, 160
  nursing home administrators licensure requirement, S12
  offshore oil and gas development: control, 179, 254, 260
  oil pollution of international waters : control, 265
  Pell P l a n : inclusion of San Francisco Bay, Los Angeles, and San Diego areas, 261
  Philippine Scouts, 219
  Point Reyes National Seashore lands, 878
  Prado dam and reservoir study, 34-4
  president: Japanese immigration centennial y e a r : proclamation, 63
  public assistance standards, 286
  public utility district contracts, 388
  Queen Mary commemorative stamp, 165
  radioactive material transportation regulations, 601
  reclamation, 75, 82
  renewal area agency bonds : federal mortgage insurance, 248
  rescue t e a m s : liability, 573
  restraint of trade actions, 1234
  revenue sharing: legislative joint committee on national tax policy, 375
   Sacramento River bank protection project: appropriation, 134
  Sacramento River flood control project, 1284
  Salton Sea studies, 883
  San Joaquin River flood control project. 1284
  Santa Clara County transit district: assistance, 180
  school appropriations: release, 120
  school nutrition programs: continuance and support, 35/f
   Sepulveda Dam Basin water reclamation facility, 186
  Sherman I n s t i t u t e : emergency appropriation, 27l
  soil conservation grants : recreation inclusion, 202
   Sonoma Creek flood control project, 1038
  T O P I C S programs: federal aid, 1141
  Tulare County flood control district: cooperation, 1149
  Tuolumne County water agency: cooperation, 1236
  urban public transit systems trust fund, 216
  vehicle emission standards, California: implementation, 50
  vessels: registration, 818
  vocational education aid, 1495, 1555, 366
  vocational youth organizations, 332
  water pollution research, 284
   water quality control assistance, 482
  water reclamation : assistance, 75
  welfare programs, federal: maximum use of state and local agencies, 239
U N I V E R S I T I E S AND C O L L E G E S
   conservation education teaching techniques, etc., instruction in, 334
   Independent College Month, 303
  new careers in education program participation, 1453
  private—•
      doctoral degree: joint award with state colleges, 1125
      regulation, etc., 1409
      study, 296
   property taxation, 123
   small college and university campuses: increase: feasibility study, 341
   students: new careers in education program participation, 1453
   students: records : availability, 1465
   tenure rules, study, etc., re, 146
   tuition : new careers in education interns, 1453
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
   admission—
      junior college students, 300
      priorities, 300
      teacher credential holders, 300
      veterans, 800, 392
   airport assistance revolving fund aid, 682, 1603
  campus disorders, 1122, 1424, 1427, 306
   chancellors: campus disorders : powers and duties, 1427
   courses of study: Indian history and culture, 376"
  curriculum requirement: junior or community college transfers, 322
   DDT, etc.: study re effects of use, 815
                                          INDEX                                          517
   employees—
      academic employees: campus disorders participation: disciplinary measures,
               1427
      academic employees : tenure : study, etc., re rules, H6
      administrative employees: campus disorders participation : disciplinary measures,
               1427
      unauthorized entry to campus after suspension or dismissal, 1424
   Hastings College of Law, 15, 797, 278
   health science facilities construction, 1544
   new careers in education program participation, 1453
   permits: tidelands drilling, 1430
   physical violence against students or teachers, 1122
  police : certain motor vehicles : disposition, 547, 1116
   regents—
      campus control provisions: personnel orientation, 309
      chairman: University of California health science facilities construction pro-
               gram committee: membership, 1544
      drug abuse research, etc., program evaluation, 1618
      Indian history and culture courses and research projects, 376
      junior or community college transfer students: curriculum, 322
      meetings, 1224, 360
      undergraduate instruction: strengthening importance and quality, 337
  relocation assistance, 1489
  students—
      campus disorders participation: effect, 1427
      junior or community college transfers : curriculum requirements, 322
      new careers in education program, 1453
      residence status, 886
      rules of student conduct, 1427
      serviceman's spouse: residence, 886
      state a i d : campus disorders participation : effect, 1427
      unauthorized entry to campus after suspension or dismissal, 1424
      visually handicapped: teaching materials, etc., 1147
  tenure. See subheading, employees—academic employees, above.
  tuition : new careers in education interns, 1453
  unclaimed property : disposition, 857
  undergraduate instruction, 337
  veterinary medicine school: Southern California, 293
U N I V E R S I T Y O F C A L I F O R N I A H E A L T H S C I E N C E F A C I L I T I E S CON-
               S T R U C T I O N P R O G R A M B O N D A C T O F 1969, 1544
U N L A W F U L ASSEMBLY, 365
U N L A W F U L D E T A I N E R , 480, 903
U N R U H ACT. See SALES—-retail installment             sales.
U N S O L I C I T E D M E R C H A N D I S E , 265, 400
URBAN A R E A T R A F F I C O P E R A T I O N S I M P R O V E M E N T ACT, 1141
U R B A N G R O W T H , I N T E R G O V E R N M E N T A L C O U N C I L O N : name change to
               council on intergovernmental relations, 138
U S E F U E L TAX, 52, 329, 368
                                             V
VACANCIES
  county central committees, 453
  Russian River recreation and park district board of directors, 197
  school district governing boards, 1513
  Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
  state central committees, 454
VACATIONS
  public employees: exemption of credits from attachment or execution, 546
VALIDATIONS
  first validating act of 1969, 13
  housing authorities' pension trusts, 1029
  local agencies' acts and proceedings, 356
  school building aid final apportionments, certain, 119
  second validating act of 1969, 748
  third validating act of 1969, 749
VALUE E N G I N E E R I N G W E E K , 48
VANDALISM, 846
V E H I C L E CODE : codification to maintain code, 26
V E H I C L E P A R K I N G D I S T R I C T S , 487
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
518                                    INDEX

V E H I C L E S : possessory liens : assignment, 125
VENDING MACHINES
   milk and cream dispensers, 884
   owner's name requirement violations, 927
   sales and use tax, 1533
V E N D I N G STANDS, 1370
VENEMAN, J O H N G., 121
V E N E R E A L D I S E A S E : prophylactics, 1435
V E N T U R A COUNTY
   officers, certain: salary, 1410
   port districts, 413
   sanitation district: bond issue: sewer acquisition, etc., 881
   Santa Paula Creek flood control project, 184
   Southern California transportation study commission, 1547
   tide and submerged lands, 1044
   waterworks district No. 6, 434
VENUE
   contract actions, 724
   corporations, civil actions against, 855
   retail installment contract actions, 186
VETERANS
   blind and disabled : property tax exemption, 1332
   bond act of 1968, 1252, 326
   bonds: interest rate, 826
   collegiate educational benefits: certain postgraduate studies, 1484
   county employees' retirement system: contributions, 978
   deceased: children's collegiate educational benefits: certain postgraduate studies,
                1484
   definition, 1049
   disabled: motor vehicle fee exemptions, 893
   disabled: property tax exemption, 1332, 369
   farm and home purchases—
      disaster indemnity benefits, 204
      loans: subsequent loans, 1591
      reentry to active service: occupancy, 305
    homes: veterans' home of California, 529, 1139, 1142
   hunts, special, 695
   law practice, admission t o : certain World W a r I I veterans, 587
   Memorial D a y : observance, 185
   motor vehicle fees, etc.: exemptions, 893
   national cemeteries: San Luis dam, 238
   nurses, registered: licenses, 1592
   property tax exemption, 143, 899, 943
   school classified employees, 1098
   Spanish-American Veterans Month, 18
   state college admission without meeting all entry requirements, S92
   state college educational opportunity program grants, 1336
   state service seniority, 986
   state university and college admission preference, 300
   University of California admission without meeting all entry requirements, 392
   Veterans of Foreign W a r s Week, 131/
VETERANS AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF
   agriculture and services agency, inclusion in, 138
   Cal-Vet loans: disaster indemnity benefits, 204
   Cal-Vet loans: occupancy requirement: waiver, 305
   veterans' collegiate educational benefits: certain postgraduate study, 1484
V E T E R A N S O F F O R E I G N W A R S W E E K , 137
VETERINARIANS
   abandoned animals, etc., 1138
   actions against, 608
   licenses, registration, etc., 718
   school of veterinary medicine: Southern California, 293
V I S A L I A , CITY O F : charter revision, 198
VITAL STATISTICS
   birth certificates: adopted children, 485
   homicide reports, 1089
   registrar, s t a t e : birth records, amended: fee, 485
                                         INDEX                                       519
VOCATIONAL AND T E C H N I C A L T R A I N I N G A C T O F 1969, 1555
VOCATIONAL E D U C A T I O N
  advisory committee, 1495, 1555
  advisory council on vocational education and technical training, California: crea-
            tion, 1555
 apprentice training instruction, 1360
 area vocational committees, 1555
 career ladder: feasibility study, 894
 director: vocational area region boundaries : determination, 1555
 federal aid, 1495, 1555, 366
 information system, 1555
 job market survey, 1368
 program evaluation u n i t : creation, etc., 1555
 regional occupational centers and programs—
    adult classes, 968
    curriculum, 953
    diplomas, 337
    establishment, 953
    tax levy for, 745, 1368
    teachers: qualifications, 337
 summer vocational and technical education act of 1969, 1495
 vocational areas, 1555
VOCATIONAL E D U C A T I O N AND T E C H N I C A L T R A I N I N G , C A L I F O R N I A
           ADVISORY COUNCIL ON, 1555
VOCATIONAL E V A L U A T I O N A N D W O R K A D J U S T M E N T A C T O F 1969, 1107
VOCATIONAL I N D U S T R I A L C L U B S O F A M E R I C A W E E K , C A L I F O R N I A ,
           188
VOCATIONAL R E H A B I L I T A T I O N , 1565
VOLK, R O B E R T H., 195
                                          w
W A I T E R S AND W A I T R E S S E S : apparel, 1534
WAIVERS
  airport assistance revolving fund aid, 1604
  contractors' performance bonds: county emergency repairs, 101
  industrial subdivisions, certain, public report, 373
  jury trial, 141
  real property sales contract prepayment provisions, 399
  school building aid, state, 613
  state college nonresident tuition fees, 1605
WAKAMATSU T E A AND S I L K F A R M , 63
W A R E H O U S E S , 392, 843, 1348
W A R R A N T S O F A R R E S T . See A R R E S T S .
W A R R A N T S ON T R E A S U R I E S
  Brannan-Andrus levee maintenance district, 257
  county : lost or destroyed warrants, 107
  Delta water agency, 285
  new warrants, 107
  public assistance warrants, 509
  water districts, California, 1085
W A S T E D I S P O S A L : Lake Tahoe Basin, 800
WATER
  appropriations, 1087, 1359
  charges: municipal water districts, 708
  Delano community water supply study, 1510
  flood control. See F L O O D CONTROL.
  ground w a t e r : Kern Delta water district, 1085
  navigable w a t e r s : pollution, 79
  pollution—
     abatement, 259
     fish and plant life damage, 1043
     generally: revision of provisions, 482
     international waters, 265
     Lake Tahoe, 800, 1356
     offshore oil operations, 865
     oil spillage: control, 217
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
520                                     INDEX

WATER—Continued
   pollution—continued
      research, 284
      San Francisco Bay Delta study, 1232
      vessels, human excreta from, 79
      water quality control: generally, 482
   projects—
      Dixon dam and reservoir, 1070
      Lassen-Modoc County flood control and water conservation district, 82
      maintenance areas, 008
      Poway water storage, 1065
      reports, 281
      Sepulveda Dam Basin water reclamation facility, 186
      s t a t e : reconnaissance or feasibility studies, 906
   public utility district service rates, 388
   reclamation, 482, 75
   regional water quality control boards: generally: revision of provisions re, 482
   San Francisco Bay Delta water quality control study, 1232
   service contracts, 1085, 1086
   service to certain county water district land, 18
   standby charges, 377
   state projects: recreational uses, 979
   state water projects, Los Angeles County, 258
   state water resources development system: Mojave water agency benefit zones:
                   availability of water, 34
   state water resources development system: water supply contracts, 298
   supply contracts, 298
   Thousand Oaks, City of: water service, 434
   Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
   underwater p a r k s : state park system, 483
  water quality control, 482, 800, 1359, 336
   water rights or water conservation w o r k s : conveyance, 374
W A T E R CODE : codification to maintain code, 68
W A T E R C O N S E R V A T I O N D I S T R I C T S , 414, 496
WATER DISTRICTS, AGENCIES AND AUTHORITIES
  Antelope Valley-East Kern water agency, 33, 449
   Bighorn Mountains water agency, 1175
   California water districts. See C A L I F O R N I A W A T E R D I S T R I C T S .
  California water storage districts. See C A L I F O R N I A W A T E R STORAGE
                  DISTRICTS,
  county water districts. See COUNTY W A T E R D I S T R I C T S .
  Crestline-Lake Arrowhead water agency, 109
  Delta water agency, 285
  Devils Den water district, 33
  Kern County water agency, 33
  metropolitan water districts, 209, 230, 441
  Mojave water agency, 34
  municipal water districts. See M U N I C I P A L W A T E R D I S T R I C T S .
  Orange County water district, 344
  Placer County water agency, 358
  San Gorgonio Pass water agency, 1027
  Sonoma County water agency, 656
  Tuolumne County water agency, 1236
  Yolo-Zamora water district, 241
W A T E R P O L L U T I O N R E S E A R C H , I N T E R N A T I O N A L ASSOCIATION ON,
                  284
W A T E R R E C L A M A T I O N LAW, 482
W A T E R R E S O U R C E S CONTROL B O A R D , S T A T E
  Lake Tahoe Basin water quality control, 800
 North Tahoe public utility district loan, 1356
  oil cleanup substances: regulations, 409
  resources agency, inclusion in, 138
  revision of provisions re, 482
  San Francisco Bay Delta water quality control study and recommendations, 1232
 Tahoe City public utility district loan, 1356
 water appropriation applications, 1359
 water appropriation fees: recommendations, 1087
 water pollution abatement comparative study, 259
 water quality advisory committee: revision of provisions re, 482
                                         INDEX

WATER RESOURCES, DEPARTMENT OF
    Alhambra Creek flood control project: duties, 74
    California Aqueduct: plans, 258
    Castaic reservoir : plans, 258
    Cucamonga Creek flood control project, 1456
    dams or reservoirs, 363
    Davis-Grunsky Act grants—
      Dixon dam and reservoir project, 1070
      Kern County Buena Vista aquatic recreation area project, 1235
      Poway municipal water district, 1065
   director—
      San Joaquin-Kings River interstream group flood control study, 329
      water project reports, 281
      water supply contracts: changes, etc., 298
   Eel River flood control, 278, 345
   flood insurance: powers and duties, 1115
   Prado dam and reservoir study, 844
   Pyramid reservoir: plans, 258
   recreation and fish and wildlife enhancement, state water projects, 663
   recreation land acquisition, 663
   Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta levee study, 297
   San Dieguito River Basin water resources development plan, 886
   Sonoma Creek flood control project, 1038
   water projects: recreational uses, 879
   water projects: studies, 906
W A T E R S K I I N G : life preservers, 146
W E A P O N S . See also F I R E A R M S .
   destructive devices, 205
   machinegun: definition, 1003
   tear gas act of 1969,1231
W E I G H M A S T E R S , 80
W E I G H T S AND M E A S U R E S
   automatic price computing measuring devices, 386
   avocado packing, 577
  certificates, combination grade and weight, 852
  fair packaging and labeling act, 1309
  food sales, 411
  hay, baled, 164
  refuse collection trucks, 287
  violations, 731
W E L C O M E WAGON W E E K , 70
W E L D E D P R O D U C T S MONTH, 122
W E L F A R E AND I N S T I T U T I O N S C O D E
  McAteer Alcoholism Act provisions: transfer from Education Code, 1107
W E L F A R E OR G U I D A N C E A G E N C I E S : students' records: access, 1465
WELLS
  cathodic protection wells, 482
  waste wells, 482
  water wells, 482
W H E E L C H A I R GAMES DAYS, C A L I F O R N I A , 169
W H I T T I E R COLLEGE, 410
WILDLIFE
  Buena Vista aquatic recreation area project: Kern County, 1235
  Carpinteria Valley watershed project, 172
  Dixon dam and reservoir project, 1070
  management a r e a s : recreational use, 988
  Poway water storage project, 1065
  Prado dam and reservoir, 844
  refuges, 357
  resources protection: state highway projects, 1052
  water appropriations, 1359
W I L L I A M S , RAY E., 245
W I L L S , 46, 124, 155, 563
WITNESSES
  appearance, 140
  business records, preparation and delivery, 199
  commodity advisers law violations, 1305
  coroner's inquests, 1220
  engineers' investigating committee members, 1204
  expert witnesses, 570, 925, 1204
NOTE: Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in i
522                                    INDEX

WITNESSES—Continued
  immunity, 819
  marshals and deputy marshals, 172
  obscenity trials, 925
  out-of-state: expenses, 734
  peace officers, 342, 1187
  perjury, 831
  prisoners, 242
  self-incrimination, 819
  subpoenas, 311
  World W a r I I : repeal of obsolete provisions, 958
WOMEN
  female prisoners: persons having immediate care of, 643
  prenatal blood specimens for Rh blood type, 1563
  status of, advisory commission on the, 721
WOOD, DR. R. COKE, 64
WOODS, W A L T E R W I N S T O N , 209
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION
  appeals, 918
  benefits—
     death-
        computation, 65
        firemen, local, 142
        scholarships for peace officers' dependents, 1616
     disability—
        death of employee: effect, 850
        firemen, local, 142
  bridge and highway district employees, 366
  commissioner's official action, request for: fees, etc., 559
  corporation officers and directors, 845
  employee: definition, 845
  employee : employment training, 1133
  employers: willful misconduct: defense expense, 1062
  firefighters: prisoners, 1112
  firemen : local: extraterritorial service, 142
  fund, state compensation insurance: directors: per diem allowance, 460
  insurers, 705, 1062
  law enforcement personnel, 1402
  peace officers: scholarships for dependents, 1616
  school pupils employed in work experience and work study education programs, 532
W O R K S O F I M P R O V E M E N T , 1362, 1364, 1583, 1611
W O R L D T R A D E A U T H O R I T Y , C A L I F O R N I A , 138, 1161
W O R L D T R A D E , D I V I S I O N O F . See COMMERCE, D E P A R T M E N T OF.
W O R L D T R A D E W E E K , HI
W R E S T L I N G , 325
WRITS
  habeas corpus, 38
  justice courts: fees, 70
  possession: forcible entry or unlawful detainer actions, 903

                                         X
X - R A Y S , 269, 1504
                                         Y
YOLO COUNTY
  district attorney: salary, 1410
  Knights Landing Ridge drainage district, use of tax roll by, 243
YOLO-ZAMORA W A T E R D I S T R I C T , 241
Y O U T H AND A D U L T C O R R E C T I O N S AGENCY
  agriculture and services agency, name change to, 138
YOUTH AUTHORITY
  annuity contracts, 864
  board—
     members: terms, 348
     work furlough programs, local, participation: approval, 585
  court commitments, 785
  department-
     alien student assistants and interns, certain, 473
     county special supervision programs, 1415
     driver education and training programs, 1104, 1573
                                         INDEX                                       523

     drug abusers study and proposed treatment program, 377
     employees : annuity contracts, 864
     forestry camp inmates: firefighting, 590
     juvenile confinement facilities : inspection, 1001
     juvenile halls: confinement standards, 1240
     incorrigible juveniles: state prison terms, 924
     officers and employees: peace officer powers, 645
     prisoner confinement, 1010
     youth correctional centers: duties, 1193
  director—•
     transportation of committed juveniles : notification to sheriff, 1197
     wards' funds: duties, 1272
     wards' handiwork sale, etc., 803
     work furlough programs, local: participation, 585
     work projects: wages, 1023
  human relations agency, transfer to, 138
  w a r d s : funds: investment, 1272
  work projects: wages, 1023
YOTJTH C O R R E C T I O N A L C E N T E R S , 1193
Y O U T H S E R V I C E B U R E A U S . 1193
YOUTH T E M P E R A N C E E D U C A T I O N W E E K , 54
YOUTH W E E K , E L K S N A T I O N A L , 88


ZERO D E F E C T S W E E K , 45
ZONES A N D ZONING
 community services districts, 538
  Contra Costa County storm drainage district, 427
 Kern Delta water district, 1085
  Madera County flood control and water conservation agency, 916
  Mojave water agency benefit zones, 34
  San Benito County water conservation and flood control district, i
N O T E : Citations are to chapter numbers; resolution chapters are indicated in italics.
 TABLE OF PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL
           AMENDMENTS
Article    Section   Proposed change       Number        Page
      II       1     Amendment             AOA 7         3983
              7      Addition              ACA 29        4003
    IV       12      Amendment             ACA 6         3997
             12.1    Addition              ACA 6         3997
             24      Amendment             AOA 28        4016
    IX        2.1    Repeal                ACA 79        4063
              7      Amendment             ACA 60        4061
              7.5    Addition              ACA 60        4061
              9      Amendment             ACA 12        4062
     X               Repeal                ACA 30        3933
    XI               Repeal and Addition   AOA 29        4003
   XII               Repeal and Addition   ACA 31        3934
             13      Amendment             ACA 15        3878
 XIII         lja    Amendment             SCA 29        4070
              lib    Amendment             SCA 29        4070
             30      Amendment             AOA 15 (as
                                           proposed by
                                           AOA 31)       3878
                     Addition              ACA 31        3934
            37       Addition              ACA 29        4003
            37.5     Addition              ACA 29        4003
            38       Addition              ACA 29        4003
            39       Addition              ACA 29        4003
            40       Addition              ACA 29        4003
            41       Addition              AOA 29        4003
  XIV        1       Amendment             AOA 31        3934
  XVI        1       Amendment             AOA 87        3998
                     Amendment             SCA 26        3970
XVII                 Repeal                ACA 30        3933
XVIII                Repeal and Addition   ACA 28        4016
 XX         23       Addition              ACA 31        3934
            24       Addition              ACA 30        3933
XXII         8       Addition              ACA 29        4003
XXIV                 Repeal and Addition   AOA 28        4016
              4      Amendment             ACA 79        4063




                                (1)
    GOVERNOR'S
REORGANIZATION PLANS

        1969
 Reorganization Message of



RONALD REAGAN


  Governor of     California




      Transmitted to the

 CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE

  Wednesday, March 5, 1969
To the Members of the Legislature of California;
   In submitting last year's Eeorganization Plan No. 1 of 1968
for consideration by the Legislature I called attention to some of
the factors of change which alter the circumstances of government
such as growth, technology, management techniques, and changes
in public policy, and I pointed out that organizational response
to pressures for change can result in a proliferation of unco-
ordinated government activities.
   A major purpose of last year's plan was to establish a more
manageable structure in the Executive Branch, with four major
agencies and a small, working cabinet. Another was improvement
of communications with all levels of government on matters of
major objectives, policies, and programs through proper use of
Agency Secretaries as advisors to the Governor and representa-
tives of his authority in Agency matters.
   These purposes have been achieved and the basic, reorganized
structure of our Executive Branch has proven to be sound, work-
able, and effective.
   There were other objectives stated as well, such as bringing
groups of programs and services into clear, coordinated rela-
tionship to each other, insuring a more continuous and uniform
review of program performance, and highlighting overlapping
and obsolete functions for necessary restructuring. Reorganiza-
tion was one means of attaining such objectives. A companion
means was the institution of program budgeting for all State
Government activities, a form of budget presentation which
focuses on goals, in-depth analysis of alternatives and measure-
ment of achievement of objectives. These are essential elements
of decisions by policy makers in the difficult task of allocating
resources among competing needs. The combination of pro-
gram budgeting and the continuing work to secure the organiza-
tion objectives will lead directly to the identification of many
reorganization requirements as we are able to identify programs
and analyze program goals.

                               (3)
                              ~_ 4 —

   However, there is a second reason for focusing attention oh
these objectives. In any human endeavor of the size and
scope of California state government it is never possible to say
that these objectives have been achieved for all possible cases.
Rather, they are continuing objectives and an organization of
such dimensions needs continuous improvement. This is never
a matter of change for its own sake, but we need to be sure, at
all times, that our reasons for leaving any organization structure
unchanged are as valid and sound as our reasons for altering
those which we do change.
   Under the authority of the constitutional amendment approved
by the voters in 1966, the Legislature in 1967, in Senate Bill 296,
empowered the Governor to reorganize the Executive Branch,
subject to review by the Legislature. In Government Code Sec-
tion 12080.1 the Legislature stated its purposes in granting this
authority. Among them were:
    "To group, consolidate and coordinate agencies and functions
  thereof as nearly as possible according to major purposes;
    To reduce the number of agencies by consolidating those
  having similar functions under a single head and to abolish
  such agencies or functions thereof as may not be necessary for
  the efficient operation of state government;
    To eliminate overlapping and duplication of effort."

   These objectives are an excellent incentive to the Executive
Branch to examine its organization continuously. However, under
Government Code Section 12081.2 the Governor's authority to
submit reorganization plans to the Legislature expires on Decem-
ber 31,1969.
   I believe it is essential that the Executive Branch have both the
continuing incentive and the authority to examine its organiza-
tion structure and components and to recommend changes com-
patible with changing circumstances and with the emergence of
new needs. Therefore, I have requested the introduction of legis-
lation in the current session which will continue the Governor's
                              — 5 —

authority to transmit reorganization plans under Government
Code Section 12080.2. The extension of this authority is one of
the most important and significant reorganization actions that
can be taken for the benefit of the people of California. I strongly
urge your favorable consideration of this legislation.
   In addition to those already quoted, Government Code Sec-
tion 12080.1 also states these purposes of the Legislature:
       "To promote the better execution of the laws, the more
    effective management of the executive and administrative
    branch of the state government and of its agencies and
    functions and the expeditious administration of the public
    business;
      To reduce expenditures and promote economy to the fullest
    extent practicable consistent with the efficient operation of
    state government;
      To increase the efficiency of the operation of the state
    government to the fullest extent practicable; . . . ."

  These are purposes with which this Administration is in full
accord, and they are a foundation for actions included in these
reorganization proposals. There are, however, three other bases
for action which have been expressed previously by this Adminis-
tration as part of its philosophy of government. The influence of
these beliefs is also evident and therefore they are clearly stated
here. They are:
  1. There should be a conscious effort on the part of each level
     of government to keep government as small as is possible
     and consistent with the basic obligation of meeting the real
     needs of the people.
  2. Higher levels of government should continually search for
     opportunities to return governmental functions to local gov-
     ernment levels and devolve enabling duties, responsibilities
     and power to local government for functions it can per-
     form equally well or better.
                                — 6 —

   3. All levels of government should seek to enlist the interest,
      concern, and active participation of the private sector to
      solve public problems. The private sector should be en-
      couraged to become a joint partner or even a friendly
      competitor with government in acting to achieve the social
      goals of the entire citizenry.

     The actions proposed in the reorganization plans of 1969
  reflect the spirit of the stated purposes of the Legislature
  and of these beliefs. They constitute more than a management
  improvement plan. They are a thrust toward the future, a thought-
  ful attempt to re-direct some aspects of government in ways which
  will better serve the needs of the people. I t is in the same spirit
  that they are submitted for your review.
     The first reorganization action I wish to call to your attention
  is the action which has already been taken to return to local
  governmental jurisdiction the San Francisco Port Authority.
  The operation of the Port was assumed by State Government
  in the latter part of the last century, and since that time had
 been a separate function of State Government, responsible only
 to the Governor. This had also been the only state operated port.
 The State did undertake extensive development of 8 miles of
 waterfront lands from Aquatic Park to the China Basin includ-
 ing piers, Fisherman's Wharf and the Belt Railway. However,
 as other California ports were developed and presented compe-
 tition for San Francisco's port business, this state controlled
function was not always as responsive to local needs as a city
 operated port might have been. Therefore, despite the immense
monetary value of the Port Lands today, and in the firm belief
that ownership and operation of a port is properly a local rather
than a State function, I supported the proposal to return
the Port of San Francisco without requiring "payment of fair
value" or similar compensation by the City and County to the
State. This is a significant reversal of the modern trend of each
level of government which has consistently sought increased
powers, duties, revenues and spending authorities.
  In a similar manner, and for the same reasons of returning
to local government functions which properly belong to them
I am recommending elimination of the following functions from
State Government, effective on January 1, 1971;
    Board of Pilot Commissioners and the Pilotage Rate Com-
    mittee for the Bays of San Francisco, San Pablo and Suisun
    Board of Pilot Commissioners for Humboldt Bay and Bar
    Board of Pilot Commissioners for the Harbor of San Diego
    Board of Harbor Commissioners for Humboldt Bay

   The effective date of these actions provides ample time for
local assumption of these responsibilities.
   We have also initiated discussions with the Board of Directors
of the Museum of Science and Industry, to explore the feasibility
of transferring the operation of the Museum to the appropriate
local jurisdiction.
   Voluntary participation of the private sector in government
matters and in developing independent solutions to social prob-
lems has long been a traditional part of the American way of
life. It has spanned a broad spectrum of activities, from
volunteer fire companies and citizens' committees to the en-
dowment of great universities and cultural institutions and the
formation of immense foundations for research and social im-
provement. The motivation of the individual citizens of America
to form associations, independent institutions for social pur-
poses, was seen by Alexis de Tocqueville as long ago as the
1830 's as a remarkable and almost unique characteristic of
American life. This impulse to band together outside the sphere
of politics for purposes of building, and not of tearing down,
is still very much alive. It can be seen today in many places
where ordinary citizens are at work together in their own self-
interest. Sometimes they are joined by common interest in a
field of work, a form of recreation, or the threat of a mutually
shared problem. Sometimes they come from totally different
fields and interests, joined only by a shared sense of humanity
                               — 8 _

  and a common recognition of a need to be met and satisfied.
  This impulse to engage in constructive independent action
  should be supported and encouraged wherever it arises, in all
  contexts, whether large or small.
     The people of California have shown repeatedly that they
  will respond to stated needs on an ad hoc basis, as they did in
 the case of the Governor's Survey on Efficiency and Cost Con-
  trol, and the commission which helped the Department of Cor-
 porations rewrite the corporation code. These ad hoc groups
 are immediately disbanded when the stated purpose has been
 achieved. On the other hand, statutorily established boards,
 commissions and functions exhibit a tendency to perpetuate
 themselves even beyond any reasonable need or usefulness. This
 appears to be based upon an assumption that the Legislature fore-
 saw a continuing need and that self-perpetuation would be the
 only way to fulfill that expectation. Reorganization Plan No. 1
 of 1969 eliminates many boards and commissions in the firm
 belief that their expertise is available to State Government on
 call or that, in some cases, independently organized bodies will
 perform as effectively as permanent statutory agencies.
    I hope that a resurgence of independent action will permit
 additional reductions in government activities and will present
valid alternatives to the continuing tendency of government to
 expand its powers and authorities.
    There are several major departmental reorganizations this
year which continue at the department level the kind of re-
structuring done last year at the cabinet level, consolidating
functions for more effective use of resources, better communica-
tion of policy decisions, and better coordination of ideas and
programs as well as other reasons.
    In the field of revenue administration there are certain obvious
criteria that should be met. The taxpaying public should be able
to identify, simply and immediately, the tax collecting agency
with which it must deal in relation to any tax matter. Tax
administration should be straightforward and direct, as a prin-
cipal responsibility of the Governor, consistent with the opera-
                              — 9—
tion of other state agencies under the Governor's jurisdiction.
Authority for judgments in tax appeals should be distinct and
separate from authorities for tax administration. Information
reported to the state government for various tax administration
purposes should be as simple and as uniform as possible, and
should lend itself readily to preparation by the tax paying
public, comparison, and cross-checking. Finally, tax administra-
tion should be organized and conducted in a sound, business-like
fashion which takes maximum advantage of economies of spe-
cialization and scale, which achieves maximum utilization of
equipment and facilities, which insures the best possible use
of manpower skills and resources, and which performs its tasks
efficiently as well as effectively.
   The organization structure for revenue collection in California
totally fails to satisfy any one of those criteria. While the sev-
eral revenue collection agencies are to be commended on their
individual operations, the very fact that they are individual and
separate insures that these goals cannot be achieved. No organ-
ization structure which has evolved over time through a series of
immediate responses to current crises can possibly operate as
efficiently and effectively as an organization which is deliberately
designed with the total problem and ultimate objectives con-
stantly in view.
   None of these observations originate with this Administration;
all have been made many times before. I n fact, every study of
tax administration that has been made in California has recom-
mended consolidation and integration of revenue functions for
the past 40 years. Since 1965 there has been universal agreement
among the major revenue collecting functions themselves that
significant economies can be achieved through consolidation of
tax programs and integration of tax collection functions. This
concept has been supported by governors of both parties, by the
Board of Equalization, by the Franchise Tax Board and its Ex-
ecutive Officer, by the State Controller, by the Director of Fi-
nance, by the Legislative Analyst, by the Commission on Califor-
nia State Government Organization and Economy (the "Little
                              — 10 —
Hoover" Commission), by the Assembly Interim Committee on
Government Organization, by independent management consult-
ants, by the Governor's Task Force on Efficiency and Cost Con-
trol, by respected and influential members of the Legislature
representing both parties—and yet, nothing happens.
   Certainly one of the most important reorganization proposals
you will be considering this year will be legislation to consolidate
and integrate the revenue administration functions of the Fran-
chise Tax Board, the Board of Equalization and the Office of the
State Controller. The legislation should propose a single Depart-
ment of Revenue, under the administration of a Director ap-
pointed by and responsible to the Governor and removable for
cause by the Legislature. I t should also provide for the estab-
lishment of a separate Tax Appeals Board, one not composed
of the executives heading the functions which are party to the
conflict, but fairly constituted to judge all aspects of tax matters.
   Since this proposal contemplates elimination of both the Fran-
chise Tax Board and the Board of Equalization, as presently
constituted, implementation will also require both statutory
changes and a constitutional amendment. Additionally, the
function of inheritance tax appraisal should remain with the
State Controller until the necessary reforms in this func-
tion have been accomplished. For these reasons, and to permit
reasonable time for administrative adjustments, the legislation
should specify a future effective date allowing sufficient time for
all necessary planning and implementation to insure a smooth
transition.
   There is no single item of reorganization proposed this year
which will have a greater long-term significance for California's
current and future citizens than this matter of tax administration.
I urge you to overcome any and all obstacles in carrying out this
organizational reform which has been so uniformly supported
and so repeatedly thwarted.
   The newly created Department of Human Resources Develop-
ment is a singularly successful example of cooperation and under-
standing between the Legislature and the Executive Branch.
                              — 11 —
The Department was established last year by Assembly Bill No.
1463, as an extension of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1968 and
aimed at getting the chronically unemployed and underemployed
into the mainstream of American productivity. This Administra-
tion has made great strides in effecting the planning and organiz-
ational actions necessary to carry out the intent of the Legislature.
   Both the Legislature and the Executive Branch faced up to
the many problems caused by the proliferation and fragmentation
of federally assisted state programs, and this joint effort pro-
duced some unique and innovative approaches to one of the State's
most urgent problems—successful employment for the unem-
ployed and underemployed. The principal provisions and goals
of this major reorganization are:
  1. To consolidate, to the maximum extent possible, all the func-
     tions related to job training and placement services in order
     that a unified, coordinated system might be designed and acti-
     vated which will remove employable people from public de-
     pendency and otherwise assist the unemployed in obtaining
     steady employment commensurate with their abilities and
     skills.
  2. To channel the numerous, scattered funds available for job
     training and placement services into a single Manpower
     Development Fund to be administered by the Department
     of Human Resources Development in order to provide flexi-
     bility and facilitate the directed use of funds in accordance
     with specifically established priorities of need and policy
     goals.
  3. To require the Department of Human Resources Develop-
     ment to submit an annual program budget including not
     only its own expenditures but also expenditures proposed
     to be made under any related program or by any other
     state agency for services incidental to those of the Depart-
     ment, thereby giving visibility to all aspects of the total
     effort.
                             — 12 —
  4. To require other departments and agencies to contract with
     the Department to provide services which it requires and
     to otherwise make available to the Department all author-
     ized services to eligible persons.
  5. To authorize the Department to make maximum use of
     total community resources, to contract for both public and
     private job training and placement programs, and to enlist
     the full support of private industry in achieving the De-
     partment's goals.
  6. To establish a program approach of an unbroken sequence
     of services for eligible persons based on individual need
     including specific goals and objectives, development of a
     training and employment plan, a continuing review of
     progress and a measurement of final achievement through
     periodic postemployment followup.
  7. To establish a new kind of civil servant, the Job Agent,
     who will establish a close, personal relationship and inter-
     action with each individual whom he serves. This relation-
     ship will extend not only through the determination of
     needs, development of a training and employment plan,
     procurement of training services and eventual placement.
     It will also continue for 18 months following employment
     to secure the success of the individual in achieving self-
     dependence, to ascertain for the first time on a formal
     basis the effectiveness of the plan used in each individual
     case, and to serve as a means of measuring the perform-
     ance of the Job Agent himself.
  8. To authorize a method of compensation for Job Agents
     which incorporates an incentive feature by means of which
     outstanding performance and success may be given recog-
     nition in the form of higher earnings.
   This reorganization, in addition, continues the successful func-
tions of the Governor's Job Training and Placement Council in
the form of the Job Training and Development Services Ad-
visory Board which will work in close cooperation with the new
                             — 13 —
Department, studying statewide problems of job training and
placement, advising the Director, reviewing periodic progress
reports and reporting suggestions and recommendations annually
to the Director, the Governor and the Legislature. Statutory
establishment of this Board obviates the need for several other
activities which are eliminated in the Plan. These are the Com-
mission on Manpower, Automation and Technology, the State
Manpower Advisory Committee, and the State Advisory Council
in the Department of Employment. All pertinent responsibilities
of these activities will be incorporated in the new Advisory
Board.
   In order to provide sufficient time for an orderly transition
and necessary organization planning and adjustments, the statute
provides that the act will become operative at such time as is
recommended by the Director of the Department of Human Re-
sources Development, but not later than January 1, 1970. I am
pleased to report that the Director of the Department has been
appointed, transfers are being made, new structures are being
established and staffed, and I am confident that the Department
will be fully operative well in advance of the mandated date.
   As part of our reorganization effort, this year we will endeavor
to submit legislative proposals which will represent some
necessary first steps toward a more consolidated, integrated
organization to deal with the public aspects of health. We have
investigated activities related to health and have learned that
rapid technological change, increased spending for health related
purposes, and improved abilities to identify and deal with health
problems have, in turn, generated a need for coordination and
contributed to problems of overlap, fragmentation and confusion
in the health field. In recent years there has been a growing
recognition, at all levels of government, of the multiplicity of
problems which pose current and potential threats to public
 health. Causes of concern are as varied as: planning for adequate
 hospital facilities, public and private, to serve a growing popu-
 lation, reversing the trend of environmental pollution, identify-
 ing and correcting conditions which breed pests and disease,
 containing and eliminating threatened epidemics and communi-
                              — 14 —
 cable diseases, providing for health maintenance of all citizens
 of all ages, to name but a few. A great many separate efforts
 have been undertaken to deal with those threats to public health.
 Annual expenditures from tax sources at all levels of govern-
 ment for health and health related services in California alone
 have been estimated at over 2 billion dollars. This fragmented
 response, at federal, state, and local levels must now be pulled
 together in a manner which will reduce or eliminate overlapping
 functions, provide for better planning and coordination of the
 total research effort, achieve closer organizational ties between
 medical, rehabilitative, and social services, improve program
 planning for health, and simplify the delivery of health and
 related services to the person served. The federal government's
 present emphasis is on coordination between programs and insti-
 tutions, in each state, to achieve effective, comprehensive health
 planning.
   Our objectives are similar, with emphasis on greater visibility
 of the whole health field with all its ramifications, a more easily
 understood structure facilitating communication with all levels
 of government as well as with the private sector, and to gain
maximum public benefit from resources expended. This maxi-
mum benefit will be achieved through adequate planning which
will eliminate program overlaps and fragmentation of efforts.
"We plan to concentrate efforts and funding at locations which
will produce the best results. Further, comprehensive planning
will insure that limited manpower and technological skills are
applied where they are most needed in accordance with sound
priorities.
   Your thoughtful judgment and support will be necessary if
these goals are to be won.
   The ocean is California's last major undeveloped resource.
We are only at the threshold of knowledge of the sea itself and
of the development and use of its vast resources. The Santa
Barbara offshore deep water oil drilling tragedy emphasizes our
need to know a great deal more about the characteristics of the
ocean floor and the means of developing this resource without
                             — 15 —
injury to our matchless environment. Scientific research in
California by Scripps Institute, the United States Navy, private
corporations and other organizations already has made this state
a recognized world leader in the field of oceanography. Yet we
have not effectively addressed ourselves to the optimum, planned
development of our ocean for recreation, for the protection
of its environment as natural sanctuaries, for trade, for increas-
ing scientific knowledge, and for extracting and harvesting its
resources, each in ways that do not risk its destruction for any
of those purposes.
   Ocean technology is expanding at an extremely rapid rate.
Man-in-the-sea programs, experimental submersible vehicles,
fixed foundation platforms and stable floating platforms are
daily proving man's new-found abilities to work with, on, and
in the sea. California's opportunities are unique in the combina-
tion of its extensive coastline exposure to the ocean, its moderate
climate and weather conditions, its orientation to research, and
its highly developed technological industries. Within State gov-
ernment certain actions have been taken toward comprehensive
planning.
   I am proposing, in Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969, a
Department of Navigation and Ocean Development to provide
the necessary structure of government so that a Comprehensive
Ocean Area Plan for California can become a reality. The
Department of Navigation and Ocean Development would have
the continuing responsibility for implementation of this plan, a
vital responsibility which does not now exist within State
government.
   In order to harness the collective resources of State govern-
ment, I established the Interagency Council on Ocean Resources,
composed of representatives of those agencies of government
with interests in California's coastline and knowledge to con-
tribute to its development.
   Because of his interest in and knowledge of the ocean and
the vast opportunities it contains for the enjoyment of the
people and the economy of the State, I am again asking the
                              — 16 —

 Lieutenant Governor, as my designee, to assume the leadership
 in the effort to assure that we have an orderly plan for the
 recreational and commercial development of the ocean. His in-
 terest, knowledge and leadership in this subject, as a member
 of the Congress, give him unique qualifications for this task,
    In 1967, we established the California Advisory Commission
 on Coastal and Marine Resources by an act of the California
 Legislature, with responsibility to report recommendations to
 the Governor and the Legislature. This Commission brings to
 bear on the planned development of the ocean the resources
 and expertise of the private sector together with California's
 rich educational resources. The Commission can serve in an
 advisory capacity to the Department of Navigation and Ocean
 Development, thus establishing the necessary interaction be-
 tween ideas, workable planning and the combined resources of
 State government.
    I have requested an internal reorganization within the De-
 partment of Fish and Game to permit that department to work
 in close coordination and cooperation with the new department
 and to bring its considerable resources to bear in developing
the comprehensive plan. This will be done without adversely
 affecting the constitutional and statutory responsibilities of the
Department of Fish and Game.
    The Department of Navigation and Ocean Development would
continue the functions of harbor development, boating safety, and
boating regulations from the Department of Harbors and Wa-
tercraft. It would have authority over all ocean tidelands and
coastal submerged lands except for the matter of minerals which
would remain the responsibility of the State Lands Commission.
It would assume all responsibilities for boating facility planning
and design currently split between the Department of Harbors
and Watercraft and the Office of Architecture and Construction.
I t would be responsible for beach erosion control programs,
ocean-oriented mapping, ocean-oriented power plant sites and
ocean-oriented nuclear development.
   Registration of privately owned pleasure craft and other un-
documented vessels would become the responsibility of the De-
                                       — 17 —
partment of Motor Vehicles, taking maximum advantage of its
highly developed computer system, widespread facilities and
efficient procedures for registration. Records of boat ownerships
would be maintained electronically on high speed devices which
would provide immediate responses to inquiries from the new
Department, from law enforcement activities, or others.
   The Department of Navigation and Ocean Development will be
the key to California's ocean future. Its formation now will in-
sure that California will remain in the vanguard of oceanog-
raphy, marine research, ocean conservation and ocean resources
development among the states of the nation and the nations of
the world. It not only will guarantee the wisest use of this greatest
and last resource for Californians, it also will insure that Cali-
fornia will be both leader and helper to all of its Pacific Ocean
Basin neighbors as the exploration and uses of the "inner space"
of the seas advances into the next century.
   Reorganization Plan No. 3 * will provide an opportunity to con-
duct more efficiently the business of the Department of Profes-
sional and Vocational Standards.
   Private citizens with problems involving licensed and regulated
businesses or professions have frequently had trouble finding the
right state agency to provide the help they need. To eliminate
this difficulty, the plan proposes to change the name of the De-
partment of Professional and Vocational Standards to the more
descriptive: Department of Business and Professional Licensing.
   Other changes in this department are similarly directed toward
making the structures and practices of the 40 boards, bureaus,
commissions, and committees more uniform and readily under-
standable.
   The Department will then be able to operate more efficiently
and provide a greater responsiveness in maintaining the protec-
tion of the public of California.
   In preparing for this year's reorganization, I asked all depart-
ment heads to examine the boards, commissions, and committees
under their jurisdiction and to recommend for elimination any
which are inactive, unnecessary, unproductive, or engaged in
* Re-referred to Committee on Governmental Organization June 27 (See Assembly Journal, page
    5725).
    132—1954
                             — 18 —

activities which can properly be assumed by another function of
government, a local level of government, or by the private sector.
As a direct result I am recommending elimination of many
boards, commissions, and committees in Reorganization Plan
No. 1 of 1969. Many of these entities involve significant expendi-
tures for employed personnel. Many others have had funds budg-
eted and allocated for reimbursement of members' travel costs
and other expenditures. By virtue of their number, all of them
have added to the complexity and confusion of government. The
proliferation of boards, commissions and committees frequently
interferes with the principle of clear authority and responsi-
bility, clearly assigned, and with accountability for results. This
administration will seek continuously to apply that principle to
government functions and to avoid eroding it by spreading au-
thority so thinly through so many boards and commissions that
no one can finally be held accountable. Where advice and guid-
ance to government functions is needed on a short term basis we
intend to trust California's citizens to respond to the State's
needs, as they have done so often and so well. In addition to the
outstanding work of the Governor's Survey on Efficiency and
Cost Control previously mentioned there have been numerous
contributions by groups temporarily appointed for specific tasks,
such as the excellent work of the committee appointed to draft
the Corporate Securities Law of 1968. These kinds of ad hoc
appointments will be continued.
  Where statutory functions are established for an indeter-
minate period, I will encourage the Legislature, as it has done
occasionally in the past, to include provisions for abolition of
those functions by the Governor when the services are no longer
required.
  I have mentioned previously some activities which are being
shifted to local levels of government, such as the San Francisco
Port Authority and several Boards of Pilot Commissioners.
  There are five functions which are currently performed volun-
tarily by the private sector or which can be obtained by State
government on an ad hoc basis. They are the Program Advisory
                             — 19 —

Committee to the Consumer Counsel, the United Spanish War
Veterans Commission, the Television Advisory Committee, the
Public Library Development Board, and the Advisory Council
on Atomic Energy Development and Radiation Protection. Re-
organization Plan No. 1 proposes elimination of these functions
as statutory bodies.
   Thirteen functions have been identified which can be trans-
ferred or absorbed by other agencies which are more appropriate
locations. Elimination of some of these functions as separate en-
tities will also involve the obtaining of advice and counsel regard-
ing specific problems on an ad hoc basis. Organizations proposed
for elimination as separate entities with functions transferred to
or absorbed by other agencies are :
   1. Capitol Building and Planning Commission
   2. Technical Advisory Committee to the Director of Com-
      merce
   3. Districts Securities Commission
   4. Office of Atomic Energy Development and Radiation Pro-
      tection
   5. Planning Advisory Committee
   6. Commission on Manpower, Automation and Technology
   7. State Manpower Advisory Committee
   8. Advisory Hospital Council
   9. State Advisory Council to the Department of Employment
  10. Cannery Inspection Board
  11. Narcotic Rehabilitation Advisory Council
  12. California Delinquency Prevention Commission
  13. Marine Research Committee
  I am proposing that seven functions be eliminated entirely for
a variety of reasons. The Governor's Council has become large
and cumbersome, and is not required because of the new use of
                             — 20 —

the Governor's Cabinet as an effective means of communication.
The work of the Colorado Boundary Commission has been com-
pleted. Elimination of the California-Nevada Interstate Compact
Commission and the Goose Lake Compact Commission is pro-
posed with an effective date no later than January 1, 1971, thus
providing ample time for completion of their assigned responsi-
bilities.
   The State Soil Conservation Advisory Board, the Coordinat-
ing Council on Alcohol Problems, and the Atomic Energy Co-
ordinating Committee are comprised primarily of representatives
of State departments who are State employees and are available
for consultation as needed. Therefore, I propose their elimination
as statutory functions. Finally, it has been determined that
the activities of the New Car Dealers Policy and Appeals Board
are not required as a statutory State function.
   We have not directed our attention solely to opportunities to
reduce, consolidate and eliminate functions from State govern-
ment. We have also recognized the need to extend required func-
tions beyond their scheduled expiration dates where this action
is warranted and justified. For example, the law creating the
Bay Conservation and Development Commission will expire in
October, 1969. The Commission has recommended a master plan
for the Bay, to be administered by a regional agency represent-
ing the interests of the local people and the local governments
concerned. I wholeheartedly support the idea of local govern-
ment responsibility, on a regional basis, to direct the orderly
development of the Bay, permitting appropriate municipal and
industrial uses but only in a manner which will preserve and
protect its shores and guarantee that recreational and esthetic
use of the Bay is not jeopardized. However, since it may take
some time to establish this local and regional authority, in order
to insure that San Francisco Bay will not, for even a single day,
be left unprotected and subject to filling at the whim of any
individual, I urge once again that the permit-granting powers
of the Bay Conservation and Development Commission be con-
tinued until local control has been firmly established.
                               — 21 —
   I also urge extension of the P r o g r a m for Rehabilitation of
Alcoholics and the assignment of responsibility for this program
in the Department of Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of the alco-
holic is one of the most difficult problems of our society. I t is also
one of the most tragic of losses to self, family, and society, pre-
cisely because rehabilitation can be achieved and the alcoholic can
regain his place within his family and his society. Alcoholics are
estimated to be the fourth largest disability group in the nation.
The significant achievements already recorded by the Rehabilita-
tion program present strong evidence that this problem, once
thought to be generally beyond hope of solution, can be attacked
successfully. F o r example, more than 1,000 alcoholics were re-
habilitated in 1967-68, and current projections indicate twice
that number will be reached in the current year 1968-69. An-
nual earnings of rehabilitated alcoholics increased by over $2,-
400,000. A representative sample of rehabilitated alcoholics
showed that after six months:
    51% had been totally abstinent
    21% more had drunk in such moderation as to represent
        no significant problem
    85% had no marital difficulties attributed to alcoholism
    89% had no job difficulties such as job loss or disciplinary
        action
    94% had no work days lost due to alcoholism
    96% had no hospitalization due to alcoholism
    93% had no arrests due to alcoholism

  As I mentioned in connection with the J o b Agent in the
Department of Human Resources Development, procedures to
follow up rehabilitated persons and obtain a true measure of
performance over a period of time are being applied also in
this program.
  A careful analysis of the existing separation of functions and
responsibilities along with consideration of program perform-
ance has led to the recommendation to consolidate responsibilities
                             — 22 —

for alcoholic rehabilitation in the Department of Rehabilitation.
   The actions proposed in Reorganization P l a n No. 1 of 1969 on
boards and commissions will directly reduce expenditures for
state government. However, these direct budget reductions do
not tell the whole story, since they do not reflect the administra-
tive and other costs of various supporting activities which must
process forms, handle requests and travel expense claims, issue
checks and do the many other jobs necessary to support activities
which may themselves have limited budgets or no budgets. While
it is important to insure that money is not spent unnecessarily,
it is even more important to see that money which is spent is
spent wisely on the highest priorities and that the optimum bene-
fits are obtained. This is the basis of Reorganization Plan No. 2
of 1969 and is the major focus of our continuing reorganization
effort and the underlying motivation for all the changes.
   State government will, at best, continue to be an enterprise of
vast proportions and great complexity. I appreciate the oppor-
tunity that this Administration has had to work with the Cali-
fornia Legislature, the Commission on California State Govern-
ment Organization and Economy, and all organizations of State
Government to simplify organization structures, improve com-
munication, improve the visibility of programs and activities and
seek more efficient operations and more effective solutions to our
pressing problems.
   W i t h your help we shall continue our efforts to balance the
demands of tomorrow's ideals with today's realities; we shall
seek continually to improve the circumstances of life and the
opportunities for self-development of all of our citizens; we shall
conserve our resources, applying them wisely for the greatest
benefit; we shall plan for success and not merely hope for i t ; we
shall propose and institute change where change is needed and
justified, but not for the sake of novelty or the momentary
glamour of a new approach; we shall make judicious use of the
most effective new techniques along with all that is best in the
traditional practices: and we shall guarantee our State's future
by the soundness with which we build the foundations of that
future today.
                             _   23 —

  At the Legislature's request and with the cooperation of the
Legislative Counsel the statutory language required to reflect the
changes made by the Reorganization Plans of 1969 is being pre-
pared and will follow shortly.




                                                      Governor
REORGANIZATION OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH
   OF CALIFORNIA STATE GOVERNMENT


          Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969



                                          March 5, 1969


HON. E D REINECKE,  President
 and Members of the Senate
HON. BOB MONAGAN,   Speaker
 and Members of the Assembly

  Pursuant to Section 12080.2 of the Government Code, I
hereby transmit Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1969.
       Respectfully,




                                 RONALD REAGAN
                                 Governor
        REORGANIZATION PLAN NO. 1 OF 1969

                         CONTENTS
                                            Page
Governor's Message                             5
Reorganization Actions                         7

General Provisions                           21
 Transfer of Employees                       21
  Transfer of Property                       22
 Transfer of Funds                           22
 Termination of Agencies Abolished           22




                           (3)
               GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE
   In accordance with Section 12080.2 of the Gov-
ernment Code, I am submitting Reorganization
Plan No. 1 of 1969 for review by the Legislature.
It is also being reviewed by the Commission on
California State Government Organization and
Economy. I have found each reorganization ac-
tion included in this Plan to be in the public
interest.
   The actions proposed in this Plan will increase
efficiency, save the taxpayers money, eliminate
unnecessary units of the Executive Branch, and
consolidate like functions to increase coordination
and decrease overlap and duplication.
   This is by no means all of the reorganizations
I am proposing. In my message of March 5, 1969,
I outlined this and several other major and nec-
essary changes. This Plan is an important ele-
ment in the continuing process of updating our
State Government. With your support I am sure
this Plan will prove to be a constructive first step
in modernizing the maze of boards and commis-
sions we find in State Government.




   133—1954             (5)
                         _ 7—

              REORGANIZATION ACTIONS
1. The Program Advisory Committee to the Con-
   sumer Counsel is eliminated. The statutory au-
   thority providing for the creation of such a
   committee is rescinded.
                   Explanatory Material:
    The function of this Committee, program and policy
  advice to the Consumer Counsel, is now being performed
  voluntarily by the private sector at no expense to the
  State. The statutory language authorizing the establish-
  ment of this Committee by Executive Order is no longer
  needed.
  Statutes Suspended:
       Government Code Section 12057
  Statutory Amendments and Additions:
       None

2. The United Spanish War Veterans Commission is
    eliminated.
                    Explanatory Material:
     This Commission of five members appointed by the
   Governor was created in 1957 to assist in the maintenance
   of California as an active unit of the National Encamp-
   ment of the United Spanish "War Veterans. Inasmuch as
   funding was not provided in 1968-69, it is apparent that
   State funding is no longer needed. Private organizations
   can support this activity. This saves the General Fund
   $3,600.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 1300) of Divi-
        sion 6 of the Military and Veterans Code
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        None

3. The Television Advisory Committee and the posi-
   tion of Television Coordinator are eliminated and
   the functions, authorities and responsibilities
   transferred to the Department of General Serv-
   ices.
                   Explanatory Material:
     The Committee provides advice and guidance to the
  Television Coordinator in the performance of his duties
  as the primary coordinator of the activities of the various
  public and nonprofit agencies concerned with television
                               — 8 —
     for educational purposes. It has been determined that the
     Coordinator's functions can be absorbed by the Depart-
     ment of General Services with a resultant savings to the
     General Fund of $50,322. Advice and guidance are neces-
     sary in this field and will be obtained on an ad hoc basis
     at no expense to the State.
     Statutes Suspended:
          Article 8.5 (commencing with Section 8871) of Chap-
          ter 6, Division 7, Part 2 of the Education Code
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Government Code Sections 14656, 14716, 14716.1,
          14716.2, and 14716.3

 4. The Capitol Building and Planning Commission
    is eliminated and its functions, authorities and
    responsibilities transferred to the Department of
    General Services.
                    Explanatory Material:
        The primary functions of this Commission are to estab-
     lish a master plan for the orderly development of future
     State buildings in the Capitol area of the City of Sacra-
     mento and the County of Sacramento and to formulate
     and carry out a long-range master plan for improvement
     of the Capitol Mall. These functions can be absorbed by
     the Department of General Services with advice and
     counsel obtained when specific problems need resolution.
     This will be on an ad hoc basis at no expenses to the
     State with a resultant savings to the General Fund of
     $2,250.
     Statutes Suspended:
          Chapter 2.8 (commencing with Section 8160) of Di-
          vision 1 of Title 2 of the Government Code
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Government Code Sections 8160-8169.5 and 14657

 5. The statutory authority for the Governor to ap-
    point a Technical Advisory Committee to advise
    the Director of Commerce is eliminated. The Cal-
    ifornia World Trade Authority is renamed the
    California Industry and World Trade Commission
    and its membership is changed to fifteen mem-
    bers appointed by and serving at the Governor's
    pleasure.*
* Changes provided for in this sentence were accomplished by legislative
    action. See Stats. 1969, Ch. 1161.
                                 — 9 —

                       Explanatory Material:
       The Economic Development Agency has been consoli-
     dated into the Department of Commerce and the technical
     advisory functions needed can be provided by the Cali-
     fornia Industry and AVorld Trade Commission.
       To carry out more accurately the purposes of the De-
     partment of Commerce, the California World Trade Au-
     thority should be renamed to the California Industry and
     World Trade Commission. Fifteen members will provide
     a broad perspective on the complex geographic, industrial,
     business and world trade activities of our State.
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Government Code Sections 8320, 8321, 8350-8353,
          8356-8360, 8370-8373, 8380-8387, and 8400-8402

 6.* The Districts Securities Commission is elimi-
    nated and its functions, authorities and respon-
    sibilities transferred to the Department of Corpo-
    rations.
                        Explanatory Material:
        This Commission regulates some long-term debts of cer-
     tain water districts as described in the Water Code. These
     are primarily irrigation districts, water districts and water
     storage districts; there are approximately 265 such dis-
     tricts. However some 2,000 more districts apparently have
     the choice of whether to have their bonds certified by this
     Commission and have not found this to be necessary or
     desirable. Examples of such districts are drainage dis-
     tricts, public utility districts and reclamation districts.
        The general financial activities of the Department of
     Corporations are very similar to those performed by the
     Commission in a specialized field.
        The Department of Corporations can absorb the activi-
     ties of the Districts Securities Commission without in-
     creasing its budget. This will permit lowering the fees
     charged the various water districts by the Commission.
     These savings can be passed on to the consumer.
     Statutes   Suspended:
          Water Code Sections 20015-20023.
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Water Code Sections 20000, 20001, 20003, 20004,
          20024-20033, 20040-20048, 20051-20053, 20061,
          20080-20087, 20100-20104, and 20106.

 7. The Office of Atomic Energy Development and
    Radiation Protection is eliminated and its func-
    tions, authorities and responsibilities transferred
    to the Resources Agency.
* Superseded by legislative action. See Stats. 1969, Ch. 1396.
                         — 10 —

                     Explanatory Material:
     This Office performs liaison and coordination between
  the State of California, the Federal Government and other
  states relating to nuclear energy development. The radia-
  tion protection functions of this Office are now performed
  in the Department of Public Health.
     I t has been determined that the Eesources Agency can
  absorb the functions of this Office with a resultant savings
  to the General F u n d of $45,988.
   Statutes  Suspended:
        Health and Safety Code Section 25730.
  Statutory Amendments and Additions:
       Health and Safety Code Sections 25730, 25730.2,
       25731-25739, 25771, 25805, 25810, and 25812.

8. The Departmental Coordinating Committee on
   Atomic Energy Development and Radiation Pro-
   tection is eliminated.
                     Explanatory Material:
     This Committee is composed of the heads of various
   State agencies with the function of coordinating the pro-
   grams and activities of such agencies in matters pertaining
  to atomic energy development and radiation protection.
  The Committee has not met for several years and has
  accomplished the function it was intended to perform. It
  is no longer needed. Any coordination needed in the fu-
  ture will be obtained through the Governor's Cabinet.
  Statutes Suspended:
       Article 5 (commencing with Section 25750) of Chap-
       ter 7.5 of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code
  Statutory Amendments    and   Additions:
       None

9. The Advisory Council on Atomic Energy Develop-
   ment and Radiation Protection is eliminated.
                    Explanatory Material:
     This Council was established to evaluate the programs
  of the various State agencies and to make recommenda-
  tions to the Governor regarding State policy in the field
  of atomic energy development and radiation protection.
     The Council has been relatively inactive and it is un-
  necessary to continue it on a statutory basis. If evaluation
  and policy recommendations become necessary, they can
  be obtained on an ad hoc basis at no cost to the State.
  The expenditures of this Council have been part of the
                            — 11 —
   budget appropriation for the Office of Nuclear Energy and
   are included in the projected $45,988 saving brought about
   by elimination of that Office.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Article 6 (commencing with Section 25760) of Chap-
        ter 7.5 of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code
   Statutory Amendments     and    Additions:
        None

10. The Colorado River Boundary Commission is
    eliminated.
                Explanatory Material:
     As the result of the work of this Commission a common
   boundary line with respect to the Colorado River has
   been established between California and Arizona and a
   compact ratified by both states and the Congress of the
   United States. This completes the primary objective of
   the Commission, and it is no longer necessary.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Chapter 1693 of the Statutes of 1953
   Statutory Amendments     and    Additions:
        None

11. The California-Nevada Interstate Compact Com-
    mission is eliminated effective when the compact
    has been ratified by the Congress of the United
    States or January 1, 1971, whichever occurs
    earlier.
                    Explanatory Material:
     This Commission has negotiated an interstate compact
   with Nevada relative to the distribution and use of the
   waters of Lake Tahoe and the Truckee, Carson and
   Walker Rivers. Upon completion of ratification by the
   two states and the Congress, the Commission will have
   no further function. There is ample time between now
   and January 1, 1971, to accomplish these actions. There
   will be a resultant savings to the General F u n d of $15,-
   600.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Chapter 2.6 (commencing with Section 8130) of Di-
        vision 1 of Title 2 of the Government Code
   Statutory   Amendments    and   Additions;
        None
                          — 12 -~

12. The Goose Lake Compact Commission is elimi-
    nated effective when the compact has been rati-
    fied by the Congress of the United States or
    January 1, 1971, whichever occurs earlier.
                     Explanatory Material:
      This Commission has negotiated with a similar Oregon
   commission and with the Federal Government to estab-
   lish an interstate compact to protect water use and dis-
   tribution of the water resources of the Goose Lake Basin.
   Upon completion of ratification by both states and the
   Congress, the Commission will have no further function.
   There is ample time between now and January 1, 1971, to
   accomplish this.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Chapter 31 (commencing with Section 8220) of Di-
        vision 1 of Title 2 of the Government Code
   Statutory Amendments    and    Additions:
        None

13. The Governor's Council is eliminated.
                 Explanatory Material:
      The Governor's Council has grown so large and cum-
   bersome with its present membership of sixty-one that it
   is no longer an effective management tool.
      The Governor has established a working Cabinet which
   serves the purposes for which the Governor's Council was
   established many years ago. While there is no direct ap-
   propriation to the Council a great amount of valuable
   top-level time will be put to more productive use by elim-
   inating the Council.
   Statutes  Suspended:
        Government Code Sections 12040 and 12041
   Statutory Amendments    and    Additions:
        None

14. The Board of Pilot Commissioners and the Pilot-
    age Rate Committee, for the Bays of San Fran-
    cisco, San Pablo and Suisun are eliminated ef-
    fective January 1, 1971.
                      Explanatory Material:
      The Board of Pilot Commissioners licenses persons
   qualified to pilot vessels on San Francisco, San Pablo, and
   Suisun Bays. The Pilotage Rate Committee recommends
   pilotage rates to the Legislature,
                          — 13 —

      The 1969-70 proposed expenditures for the purposes of
   the Board and the Committee are $27,472 from the Pilot
   Commissioner's Special Fund.
     These are functions which should be handled at the
   local level and are not appropriate State activities. Ample
   time for local assumption of responsibility is provided by
   making elimination effective January 1,1971.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Division 5 (commencing with Section 1100) of the
        Harbors and Navigation Code
   Statutory Amendments    and    Additions:
        None

15. The Board of Pilot Commissioners for Humboldt
    Bay and Bar is eliminated effective January 1,
    1971.
                    Explanatory Material:
     This Board licenses pilots who operate vessels on Hum-
   boldt Bay. This Board is self-supporting.
     These are not State functions and should be performed
   at the local level. The J a n u a r y 1, 1971, date provides
   ample time for local assumption of responsibility.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Division 5 (commencing with Section 1100) of the
        Harbors and Navigation Code
   Statutory Amendments     and   Additions:
        None

16. The Board of Pilot Commissioners for the Har-
    bor of San Diego is eliminated effective January
    1, 1971.
                     Explanatory Material:
      This Board licenses pilots who op,erate vessels on San
   Diego Bay and establishes a fair price for their services.
   There are four bar pilots currently licensed to assist ves-
   sels on this bay.
      The General F u n d provides $1,200 per year for support
   of this Board.
      These are not State functions and should be performed
   at the local level. The January 1, 1971, date provides
   ample time for local assumption of responsibility.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Division 5 (commencing with Section 1100) of the
        Harbors and Navigation Code
   Statutory Amendments    and    Additions:
        None
                        — 14 —

17. The Board of Harbor Commissioners for Hum-
    boldt Bay is eliminated effective January 1, 1971.
                    Explanatory Material:
      This Board is responsible for keeping records of the
   activities on Humboldt Bay and Eureka Harbor and for
   liaison with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers who pro-
   vide maintenance of the navigable channels. The General
   Fund provides $2,940 for the support of this Board.
      These are not State functions and should be performed
   at the local level. The January 1, 1971, date provides
   ample time for local assumption of responsibility.
   Statutes Suspended:
        P a r t 3 (commencing with Section 3800) of Division
        6 of the Harbors and Navigation Code
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        None

18. The Planning Advisory Committee is eliminated,
    its appellate functions related to zoning ordi-
    nances are deleted, its local planning assistance
    functions, authorities and responsibilities trans-
    ferred to the Council on Intergovernmental Rela-
    tions, and its other functions, authorities and re-
    sponsibilities transferred to the State Planning
    Officer.
                     Explanatory Material:
      This Committee has provided guidance to the State
   Office of Planning with primary emphasis on the local
   planning assistance program. The Governor's Keorganiza-
   tion Plan No. 1 of 1968 transferred the local planning
   functions of the State Office of Planning to the Council
   on Intergovernmental Relations. Advice and guidance
   relative to the local planning assistance program is now
   being provided by the Council. Therefore, the Planning
   Advisory Committee is no longer needed.
      The Planning Advisory Committee, when active, re-
   quired approximately $7,000 support from the General
   Fund. Its functions are being performed elsewhere, and
   this money is not requested in the Governor's Budget.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Government Code Section 53093, Article 10 (com-
        mencing with Section 65020) of Chapter 1.5 of Title
        7 of the Government Code
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        Government Code Sections 34207 and 65013.3
        Harbors and Navigation Code Section 3000.7
                          — 15 —

19. The State Soil Conservation Advisory Board is
    eliminated.
                     Explanatory Material:
      This Board assists and advises the State Soil Conserva-
   tion Commission. The members of the Board are available
   for consultation whenever the Commission wishes and need
   not be statutorily established as a formal State board.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Public Eesources Code Section 9066
   Statutory Amendments    and    Additions:
        None

20. The Public Library Development Board is elimi-
    nated.
                 Explanatory Material:
      The Public Library Services Act, Chapter 1802, Statutes
   of 1963, provided for the improvement of locally financed
   free public libraries throughout the State by means of in-
   centive grants to public library systems. This is an annual
   grant of State funds of $800,000 at the present level. Ap-
   proximately three-quarters goes out to the local libraries on
   a per capita basis, and the remaining quarter is granted to
   help develop library systems. The program is administered
   by the State Librarian with the advice of this Board.
      I n the early stages of developing this program, it was
   valuable to have the Board to reconcile various conflicting
   interests. However, the program is now stabilized and
   three-quarters of the grant is on a fixed formula basis. The
   remainder can be administered by the State Librarian
   without the necessity for a statutory board. I n the event
   advice is needed it can be obtained on an ad hoc basis
   with no expense to the State.
      This Board has served its purpose and should be elimi-
   nated. There will be a resultant savings to the General
   F u n d of approximately $400 per year.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Education Code Sections 27115-27116.3
   Statutory Amendments    and    Additions:
        None

21. The Commission on IVIanpower, Automation and
    Technology is eliminated.
                  Explanatory Material:
      This Commission has been inactive and has received no
   funds in the last two years. In 1966-67 the Department
   of Employment Contingent F u n d provided $19,852 for the
                          - 1 6 -
   Commission. Since there has been no demonstrated need
   for its continuance, and it has been inactive for two years,
   the Commission should not remain as a statutory unit of
   State Government. The responsibilities of the new Human
   Eesources Development Department and the Job Training
   and Development Services Advisory Board cover the
   major areas of concern in the field formerly assigned to
   this Commission.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Division 1.5 (commencing with Section 160) of the
        Labor Code
   Statutory Amendments    and   Additions:
        None

22. The State IVlanpower Advisory Committee is elim-
    inated.
                  Explanatory Material:
      This Committee is composed of certain members of the
   Commission on Manpower, Automation and Technology
   representing statutorily designated fields. The Commit-
   tee's function is to cooperate with and assist the National
   Manpower Advisory Committee. The responsibilities of the
   new Human Resources Development Department and the
   Job Training and Development Services Advisory Board
   cover the major problems which have been the concern of
   this Committee. The new department and its Board will,
   of course, cooperate with any unit of the Federal Gov-
   ernment whenever this is necessary and desirable. There-
   fore the Committee is no longer needed.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Division 1.5 (commencing with Section 160) of the
        Labor Code
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        Unemployment Insurance Code Section 10104

23. The Advisory Hospital Council is eliminated and
    its functions, authorities and responsibilities
    transferred to the Health Planning Council.
                  Explanatory Material:
      The Advisory Hospital Council has primary responsi-
   bility for allocation of Federal funds relative to hospital
   construction. The Health Planning Council was created
   to provide comprehensive State health planning in re-
   sponse to enactment of Public Law 89-749; its responsi-
   bilities are broader than those of the Advisory Hospital
   Council. There is thus some overlap and duplication of
                               — 17 —

    effort. The Health Planning Council can assume the func-
    tions of the Advisory Hospital Council and therefore the
    latter Council is no longer needed. There will be a result-
    ant savings to the General F u n d of $525.
    Statutes Suspended:
         Health and Safety Code Section 431.2
    Statutory Amendments and Additions:
         Health and Safety Code Section 431.6

24. The State Advisory Council (Department of Em-
    ployment) is eliminated and its functions, au-
    thorities and responsibilities transferred to the
    Job Training and Development Services Advisory
    Board.
                  Explanatory Material:
       This Council's function is to advise the Director of
    Employment on all matters pertaining to employment and
    unemployment. In conformity with Chapter 1460 of 1968,
    the Department of Employment will become part of the
    new Human Eesources Development Department at a
    date to be determined by the Administration but not
    later than January 1, 1970. The Job Training and De-
    velopment Services Advisory Board in the new depart-
    ment has functions parallel to those of the State Ad-
    visory Council. Therefore the Council is no longer
    needed because the Job Training and Development Serv-
    ices Advisory Board can assume its functions, and this
    will eliminate duplication of effort and possible conflicts.
    The Unemployment Administration F u n d provides $20,-
    046 and the Unemployment Compensation Disability F u n d
    $3,156 for support of this Council.
     Statutes   Suspended:
          Article 2 (commencing with Section 355) of Chapter
          2, Part 1, Division 1 of the Unemployment Insurance
          Code.
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Unemployment Insurance Code Sections 10105, 10106,
          and 10107

25.* The Cannery Inspection Board is eliminated and
    its functions, authorities and responsibilities
    transferred to the Department of Public Health.
                    Explanatory Material:
      The function of this Board is to work with the Depart-
     ment of Public Health and the State Board of Public

* Superseded by legislative action. See Stats. 1969, Ch. 1031.
                          — 18 —
   Health in protecting the public with respect to canned
   foods. The Department and the State Board of Public
   Health can assume this responsibility without the need
   for a separate statutory board. If special expertise is
   needed, it can be obtained on an ad hoc basis at no ex-
   pense to the State.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Article 2 (commencing with Section 28380) of Chap-
        ter 8 of Division 21 of the Health and Safety Code,
        and Health and Safety Code Sections 28401 and
        28441.
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        Health and Safety Code Sections 28380-28385, 28400,
        28402, 28403, and 28433

26. The Narcotic Rehabilitation Advisory Council is
    eliminated.
                 Explanatory Material:
      This Council's function is to act as an advisory group
   in matters of narcotic rehabilitation with special refer-
   ence to the California Kehabilitation Center. However,
   the new Inter-Agency Drug Abuse Council, formed under
   the auspices of the California Medical Association, can
   perform this function, and therefore the Narcotic Reha-
   bilitation Advisory Council is no longer necessary.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        "Welfare and Institutions Code Section 3004
   Statutory Amendments     and   Additions:
        None

27. The Coordinating Council on Alcohol Problems is
    eliminated.
                    Explanatory Material:
      This Council, consisting of directors of State depart-
   ments or other State agencies, is assigned to review, assess,
   and promote optional use of local, state and federal re-
   sources applicable to alcohol problems. The members are
   available on call as needed, coordination is provided
   through the Governor's Cabinet, and thus a formal statu-
   tory Council is not needed. The cost to the General Fund
   has been approximately $500 per year.
   Statutes Suspended:
        Health and Safety Code Section 427.8
   Statutory Amendments    and    Additions:
        None
                                — 19 —

28. The California Delinquency Prevention Commis-
    sion is eliminated and its functions, authorities
    and responsibilities transferred to the Governor's
    Advisory Committee on Children and Youth.
                        Explanatory Material:
        The function of this Commission is the prevention or
     reduction of delinquency among youths. The Governor's
     Advisory Committee on Children and Youth is concerned
     with all problems of children and youth and can assume
     the Commission's functions thereby removing the possi-
     bility of duplication and conflict.
        There will be a resultant savings to the General F u n d
     of $5,500.
     Statutes  Suspended:
          None
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Welfare and Institutions Code Section 1752.5

29.* The New Car Dealers Policy and Appeals Board
    is eliminated.
                   Explanatory Material:
        This Board was established in 1967 by Chapter 1397.
     The functions of this Board are to prescribe rules and
     regulations relating to licensing of new car dealers, to
     hear and consider appeals from actions arising out of
     the decisions by the Department of Motor Vehicles, and
     to consider any matter concerning the activities or prac-
     tices of any person applying for or holding a license as
     a new car dealer pursuant to specified laws. Judicial re-
     views may be sought with respect to orders of this Board.
     The Board has met regularly during the past year and
     has not taken actions giving evidence of the need for
     continuance as a statutory formal State unit. Elimination
     of this Board will save the Department of Motor Vehicles
     $66,356.
     Statutes Suspended:
          Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 3000) of Di-
          vision 2 of the Vehicle Code and Vehicle Code Section
          11723
     Statutory Amendments        and     Additions:
          None




* Superseded by legislative action. See Stats. 1969, Ch. 1031.
                                 — 20 —
30.* The Marine Research Committee is eliminated
    and its functions, authorities and responsibilities
    transferred to the Fish and Game Commission.
                        Explanatory Material:
        The Fish and Game Commission can assume the respon-
     sibilities of this Committee and thus there is no need for
     continuing the Committee as a statutory entity.
     Statutes Suspended:
          Article 2 (commencing with Section 725) of Chapter
          1, Division 2 of the Fish and Game Code
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Article 9 (commencing with Section 8085) is added to
          Chapter 1 of Part 3 of Division 6 of the Fish and
          Game Code and Section 222 of the Fish and Game
          Code

31. The Governor and Lieutenant Governor are re-
    moved from the California Toll Bridge Authority
    and replaced with two public members appointed
    at the pleasure of the Governor.
                       Explanatory Material:
       Attendance at the California Toll Bridge Authority
     meetings represent a time-consuming addition to the Gov-
     ernor's and Lieutenant Governor's duties, and, in many
     cases, such meetings are necessary only because of the for-
     malities required in bond proceedings. The proposed re-
     organization would relieve these constitutional officers of
     those duties while still retaining the stature of the Toll
     Bridge Authority as a responsible body with bonding pow-
     ers.
       There will be no resultant savings and no increase in
     operating costs.
     Statutes Suspended:
          None
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Streets and Highways Code Section 30050




* Superseded by legislative action. See Stats. 1969, Ch. 1593.
                   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   This Eeorganizaion Plan is effective on the date specified by
Government Code Section 12080.5. The agencies, officers and
employees affected by this Plan shall continue to perform their
existing functions for sixty days following the effective date
of this Reorganization Plan and during this period shall plan
for the necessary changes. The reorganization changes herein
provided shall take place on the sixty-first day after the ef-
fective date of this Plan except as otherwise provided in this
Plan.
   In addition to the description of the reorganization of var-
ious agencies in the Executive Branch of the State Govern-
ment, there is also set forth explanatory material, the statutes
that are suspended (required by Government Code Sections
12080.2 and 12080.3(g)), and the statutes requiring amend-
ment. To facilitate understanding and reference, the explana-
tory material immediately follows the reorganization to which
it is applicable.
                   TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES
   In accordance with Government Code Sections 12080.3 and
19370, all employees serving in the State civil service, other
than temporary employees, who are engaged in the perform-
ance of a function transferred to another agency, or engaged
in the administration of a law, the administration of which
is transferred to another agency by this Eeorganization Plan,
are transferred to the agency to which such function or ad-
ministration is transferred. The personnel records of all trans-
ferred employees shall be transferred to the agency to which
the employee is transferred. The status, positions, and rights
of such persons shall not be affected by their transfer and shall
continue to be retained by them pursuant to the State Civil
Service Act, except as to positions the duties of which are
vested in a position exempt from civil service. If any doubt
arises as to where such employees are transferred, the Person-
nel Board shall determine where an employee is transferred.
                      Explanatory Material:
    This provision is required by Government Code Section
    12080.3(c) and (d).


                             (21)
                          _   22 —

                    TRANSFER OF PROPERTY
   The property of any agency affected by this reorganization
is transferred to the agency to which the function or admin-
istration has been transferred. If any doubt arises as to where
such property is transferred, the Department of General
Services shall determine where the property is transferred.
The property of any agency which is abolished shall be trans-
ferred to the Department of General Services.
                       Explanatory Material:
     This provision is required by Government Code Section
     12080.3(d).
                     TRANSFER OF FUNDS
   All unexpended balances of appropriations and other funds
available for use in connection with any function or the ad-
ministration of any law transferred by this Reorganization
Plan shall be transferred to the agency to which the function
or administration has been transferred for use for the purpose
for which the appropriation was originally made or the funds
originally available. If there is any doubt as to where such
balances and funds are transferred, the Department of Fi-
nance shall determine where such balances and funds are
transferred. All unexpended balances of appropriations and
other funds for functions eliminated by this Reorganization
Plan shall revert to the fund from which appropriated as de-
termined by the Department of Finance.
                     Explanatory Material:
    This provision is required by Government Code Section
    12080.3(e).
            TERMINATION OF AGENCIES ABOLISHED
  The affairs of any agency abolished by this Reorganization
Plan shall be terminated as rapidly as possible. Such term-
ination shall be the responsibility of the Governor's Cabinet.
                     Explanatory Material:
    This provision is required by Government Code Section
    12080.3(f).
REORGANIZATION OF THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH
    OF CALIFORNIA STATE GOVERNMENT


            Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969


                                         March 5,1969



                   President
H O N . E D EEINBCKE,          and
  Members of the Senate
HON. BOB MONAGAN, Speaker      and
  Members of the Assembly
  Pursuant to Section 12080.2 of the Government Code, I
hereby transmit Eeorganization Plan No. 2 of 1969.
         Respectfully,




                                      RONALD REAGAN
                                      Governor
        REORGANIZATION PLAN NO. 2 OF 1969


                        CONTENTS
                                            Page
Governor's Message                            5
Eeorganization Actions                        7
General Provisions                           11
    Transfer of Employees                    11
    Transfer of Property                     12
    Transfer of Funds                        12
    Termination of Agencies Abolished        12




                          (3)
               GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE
   In accordance with Section 12080.2 of the Gov-
ernment Code, I am submitting Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1969 for review by the Legislature.
It is also being reviewed by the Commission on
California State Government Organization and
Economy. I have found each reorganization action
included in this Plan to be in the public interest.
   The actions proposed in this Plan will provide
a coordinated approach to harnessing and conserv-
ing the last great untapped resource of Califor-
nia—the ocean. This will assure the orderly
development and continuing administration of a
comprehensive coastal area plan to guide the many
decisions which affect the use of California's coast-
line.
   This is by no means all of the reorganizations I
am proposing. In my message of March 5, 1969, I
outlined this and several other major and necessary
changes. This Plan is an important element in the
continuing process of updating our State Govern-
ment.




                         (5)
                          — 7—

              REORGANIZATION ACTIONS
1. The Name of the Department of Harbors and Wa-
   teroraft is Changed to Department of Navigation
   and Ocean Development and Its Primary Emphasis
   Changed to Ocean-Oriented Activities.
                       Explanatory Material:
      Several agencies are now concerned with ocean-oriented
   activities without primary responsibility assigned to one
   department. The last great untapped resource available
   to the people of California is the ocean, and a coordinated
   effort is needed to explore the conservation and economic
   benefits available.
   Statutes  Suspended:
        None
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        Government Code Sections 11557 and 12805; Harbors
        and Navigation Code Sections 32, 33, 37, 50, 50.2, 80,
        85, 85.2, 651; Penal Code Section 830.4

2. The Name of the Harbors and Wateroraft Commis-
   sion Is Changed to Navigation and Ocean Develop-
   ment Commission and Membership Requirements
   Shall Be Based Solely on Geographic Representa-
   tion and Experience and Background Consistent
   With the Function of the Commission.
                     Explanatory Materials:
     This Commission will be advisory to the new Depart-
   ment of Navigation and Ocean Development and the name
   should reflect this. The primary requisite for membership
   should be geographical location as related to major ocean-
   ographic activities.
   Statutes Suspended :
        None
   Statutory Amendments and Additions :
        Harbors and Navigation Code Sections 31, 37, 50 2.
        80, 80.2, 80.4, 85.2, 651

3. The Boat Registration and Transfer Functions, Au-
   thorities and Responsibilities of the Department of
   Harbors and Wateroraft Are Transferred to the
   Department of Motor Vehicles.
                         _ 8 —

                     Explanatory Material:
      The Department of Motor Vehicles can handle the boat
   registration and transfer functions. Instantaneous infor-
   mation will be available to the new Department of Naviga-
   tion and Ocean Development. Only one central file in the
   Department of Motor Vehicles will be necessary.
   Statutes   Suspended:
        Article 2 (commencing with Section 680), Article 3
        (commencing with Section 700), Article 4 (commenc-
        ing with Section 750) of Chapter 5 of Division 3 of
        the Harbors and Navigation Code
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        Code of Civil Procedure Section 689(b), Uniform
        Commercial Code Sections 9302 and 10102, add Vehi-
        cle Code provisions incorporating the Articles listed
        above

4. The Boating Facility Planning and Design Func-
   tions, Authorities and Responsibilities of the De-
   partment of Parks and Recreation and the Office
   of Architecture and Construction are Transferred
   to the New Department of Navigation and Devel-
   opment.
                      Explanatory Material:
      Boating facility planning and design functions are now
   handled in the Department of Harbors and Watercraft,
   the Department of Parks and Eecreation and the Office
   of Architecture and Construction. This change will con-
   solidate these functions within one department with the
   primary responsibility for harbor planning and ocean
   resource development. This will be done without the
   necessity for additional funding.
   Statutes Suspended:
        None
   Statutory Amendments and Additions:
        Harbors and Navigation Code Section 85.2, Water
        Code Section 11910

5. The Beach Erosion Control Functions, Authorities
   and Responsibilities of the Department of Water
   Resources are Transferred to the New Department
   of Navigation and Ocean Development,
                                   — 9 —
                       Explanatory Material:
        An integral part of ocean resource planning is the
      control of beach erosion. As a state with the greatest
      beach resources in the world, California must have a co-
      ordinated approach to this problem. Placing this function
      in the new Department will provide such coordination.
      Statutes Suspended:
           Article 5 (commencing with Section 330) of Divi-
           sion 1 of Chapter 2.5 of the "Water Code
      Statutory Amendments and Additions:
           Add Harbors and Navigation Code provisions incor-
           porating the Article listed above

 6.* The Nonmineral Management Functions, Authori-
   ties and Responsibilities of All State Tidelands and
   Submerged Lands Lying Below Such Tidelands,
   and Swamp and Overflow Lands Affected by Tides,
   Including Any Such Lands Granted to a Local
   Agency, Currently Within the Jurisdiction of the
   State Lands Commission and the Division of State
   Lands Are Transferred to the New Department of
   Navigation and Ocean Development.
                        Explanatory Material:
        The management of tidelands and submerged lands
     lying below such tidelands are an integral part of man-
     aging the total coastal ocean environment. The new
     Department of Navigation and Ocean Development is the
     primary agency to coordinate all State ocean-oriented
     activities and thus is given the responsibility for tidelands
     and submerged lands lying below such tidelands. The
     responsibilities of other state agencies with regard to such
     lands remains unchanged except they have been asked to
     coordinate with the new Department of Navigation and
     Ocean Development.
     Statutes Suspended:
          Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 6301) of Part 1
          of Division 6 of the Public Eesources Code (to the
          extent relating to tidelands and submerged lands
          lying below such tidelands)
     Statutory Amendments and Additions:
          Public Eesources Code Sections within Chapters 3
          (commencing with Section 6201) and 4 (commencing
          with Section 6301) of P a r t 1, Chapter 1 (commencing
          with Section 6501) of P a r t 2, Article 9 (commenc-
* Superseded by legislative action. See Stats. 1969, Ch. 1593.
                 — 10 —
ing with Section 7991) of Chapter 4 and Chapter 2
(commencing with Section 7501) of Part 3, of Divi-
sion 6.
Chapter 138 of Statutes of 1964 (First Extraordinary
Session) (i.e., functions of the State Lands Commis-
sion with respect to Long Beach tidelands) Add Har-
bors and Navigation Code Sections to incorporate the
Public Resources Code provisions listed under Stat-
utes Suspended
                   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   This Eeorganization Plan is effective on the date specified
by Government Code Section 12080.5. The agencies, officers
and employees affected by this Plan shall continue to perform
their existing functions for sixty days following the effective
date of this Eeorganization Plan and during this period shall
plan for the necessary changes. The reorganization changes
herein provided shall take place on the sixty-first day after
the effective date of this Plan except as otherwise provided
in this Plan.
   In addition to the description of the reorganization of vari-
ous agencies in the Executive Branch of the State Government,
there is also set forth explanatory material, the statutes that
are suspended (required by Government Code Sections 12080.2
and 12080.3(g)), and the statutes requiring amendment. To
facilitate understanding and reference, the explanatory mate-
rial immediately follows the reorganization to which it is
applicable.
                   TRANSFER OF EMPLOYEES
   In accordance with Government Code Sections 12080.3 and
19370, all employees serving in the State civil service, other
than temporary employees, who are engaged in the perform-
ance of a function transferred to another agency, or engaged
in the administration of a law, the administration of which
is transferred to another agency by this Eeorganization Plan,
are transferred to the agency to which such function or admin-
istration is transferred. The personnel records of all trans-
ferred employees shall be transferred to the agency to which
the employee is transferred. The status, positions, and rights
of such persons shall not be affected by their transfer and shall
continue to be retained by them pursuant to the State Civil
Service Act, except as to positions the duties of which are
vested in a position exempt from civil service. If any doubt
arises as to where such employees are transferred, the Person-
nel Board shall determine where an employee is transferred.

                     Explanatory Material:
      This provision is required by Government Code Section
    12080.3(c) and (d).

                             (11)
                                        — 12 —
                    TRANSFER OF PROPERTY
   The property of any agency affected by this reorganization
is transferred to the agency to which the function or adminis-
tration has been transferred. If any doubt arises as to where
such property is transferred, the Department of General Serv-
ices shall determine where the property is transferred. The
property of any agency which is abolished shall be transferred
to the Department of General Services.
                       Explanatory Material:
        This provision is required by Government Code Section
     12080.3(d).
                      TRANSFER OF FUNDS
   All unexpended balances of appropriations and other funds
available for use in connection with any function or the admin-
istration of any law transferred by this Keorganization Plan
shall be transferred to the agency to which the function or
administration has been transferred for use for the purpose
for which the appropriation was originally made or the funds
originally available. If there is any doubt as to where such
balances and funds are transferred, the Department of Pi-
nance shall determine where such balances and funds are
transferred. All unexpended balances of appropriations and
other funds for functions eliminated by this Reorganization
Plan shall revert to the fund from which appropriated as
determined by the Department of Finance.
                     Explanatory Material:
      This provision is required by Government Code Section
    12080.3(e).
             TERMINATION OF AGENCIES ABOLISHED
   The affairs of any agency abolished by this Reorganization
Plan shall be terminated as rapidly as possible. Such termina-
tion shall be the responsibility of the Governor's Cabinet.
                     Explanatory Material:
      This provision is required by Government Code Section
    12080.3(f).

                                             o


                  printed   in CALIFORNIA OFFICE OF STATE P R I N T I N G
1954—61*   5-69    1,200
