CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE
DIVISION 1. PERSONS [38 - 86]
PART 2.6. CONFIDENTIALITY OF MEDICAL INFORMATION [56 - 56.37]
CHAPTER 3. Access to Medical Records [56.20 - 56.245]

Section 56.20.

(a) Each provider of health care shall permit each patient of the provider to inspect patient records, including the health records described in subdivision (b), and shall provide copies of the records to the patient, or the patient's representative, when requested by the patient in writing.

(b) Any provider of health care that maintains health records, including a health care service plan, shall, within five working days after receiving a written request from a patient, or the patient's representative, provide the patient or the patient's representative with a copy of those health records.

(c) Any provider of health care that maintains health records shall, within 10 working days after receiving a written request from a patient, or the patient's representative, provide the patient or the patient's representative with a written summary of the records, if requested by the patient or the patient's representative.

(d) A provider of health care may charge a reasonable cost-based fee that includes only the cost of the following:
(1) Labor for copying the patient records requested by the patient, whether in paper or electronic form.
(2) Supplies for creating the paper copy or electronic media if the patient requests that the copy be provided in electronic form on portable media.
(3) Postage, when the patient has requested the copy or summary be mailed.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a provider of health care shall not charge a fee for the retrieval or handling of patient records or health records.

(f) A health care provider shall provide a patient, or the patient's representative, who requests in writing that the patient's records be transferred to another health care provider with copies of those records within 15 days of the date of the request.

(Amended by Stats. 2002, Ch. 853, Sec. 4. Effective January 1, 2003.)
(Amended by Stats. 2019, Ch. 832, Sec. 2. (AB 1076) Effective January 1, 2020.)
