California Civil Code § 3294 — 1980 amendment text

Stats. 1980, ch. 1242, § 1 (effective January 1, 1981). The 1980 amendment added subdivision (b) creating the employer vicarious liability rule. As amended:

> (a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
>
> (b) An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.

---

Significance: Before 1980, California applied vicarious punitive liability under general respondeat superior principles — an employer could be liable for an employee's malicious conduct whether or not the employer knew about it. The 1980 amendment restricted this. After January 1, 1981, plaintiffs must prove one of three things to get punitives against a corporate employer: (1) advance knowledge of employee unfitness combined with conscious disregard, (2) authorization/ratification of the wrongful conduct, or (3) the act was personally committed by an officer/director/managing agent.

This is the "managing agent" rule. Cases interpreting who is a "managing agent" are critical for modern punitive-damages practice. See White v. Ultramar (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563 (managing agent must have substantial authority over company policy).
