29 U.S.C. § 1132 — Civil Enforcement (ERISA § 502)
As enacted: Pub. L. 93-406, 88 Stat. 891 (September 2, 1974)

(a) Persons empowered to bring a civil action.
A civil action may be brought—
(1) by a participant or beneficiary—
  (A) for the relief provided for in subsection (c) of this section, or
  (B) to recover benefits due to him under the terms of his plan, to enforce his rights
      under the terms of the plan, or to clarify his rights to future benefits under the
      terms of the plan;
(2) by the Secretary, or by a participant, beneficiary or fiduciary for appropriate relief
    under section 1109 of this title;
(3) by a participant, beneficiary, or fiduciary—
  (A) to enjoin any act or practice which violates any provision of this subchapter or
      the terms of the plan, or
  (B) to obtain other appropriate equitable relief (i) to redress such violations or
      (ii) to enforce any provisions of this subchapter or the terms of the plan;

(c)(1) Any administrator who fails to provide a statement of rights or who fails to meet
disclosure requirements shall be personally liable to such participant or beneficiary in
the amount of up to $100 per day from the date of such failure...

(e) Jurisdiction.
The district courts of the United States shall have exclusive jurisdiction of civil
actions under this subchapter brought by the Secretary or by a participant, beneficiary,
fiduciary, or any person referred to in section 1021(f)(1) of this title, irrespective
of the amount in controversy or the citizenship of the parties...

(f) Amount in controversy; citizenship of parties.
The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction, without respect to the
amount in controversy or the citizenship of the parties, to grant the relief provided for
in subsection (a) of this section in any action...

(g)(1) In any action under this subchapter (other than an action described in paragraph (2))
by a participant, beneficiary, or fiduciary, the court in its discretion may allow a
reasonable attorney's fee and costs of action to either party.

Note: Original 1974 per-day civil penalty was $100 (later adjusted to $110 by regulation).
