California Penal Code § 1203 (excerpt — operative provisions)
Source: leginfo.legislature.ca.gov (retrieved via VernenLegal MCP 2026-04-11)

(a) "Probation" means the suspension of the imposition or execution of a sentence and the order of conditional and revocable release in the community under the supervision of a probation officer. "Conditional sentence" means the suspension of the imposition or execution of a sentence and the order of revocable release in the community subject to conditions established by the court without the supervision of a probation officer. Both conditional sentence and probation are authorized whenever probation is authorized in any code as a sentencing option for infractions or misdemeanors.

(b)(1) If a person is convicted of a felony and is eligible for probation, before judgment is pronounced, the court shall immediately refer the matter to a probation officer to investigate and report upon the circumstances surrounding the crime and the prior history and record of the person.

(b)(2)(A) The probation officer shall investigate and make a written report containing findings and recommendations, including recommendations as to the granting or denying of probation and the conditions of probation, if granted.

(b)(3) The court shall hear and determine the application and the suitability of probation. The court shall consider the probation officer's report. If the court determines that there are circumstances in mitigation of the punishment prescribed by law or that the ends of justice would be served by granting probation, it may place the person on probation.

(c) If a defendant is not represented by an attorney, the court shall order the probation officer to discuss its contents with the defendant.

(d) If a person is convicted of a misdemeanor, the court may either refer the matter to the probation officer for investigation and a report or summarily pronounce a conditional sentence.

(e) Except in unusual cases in which the interests of justice would best be served, probation shall not be granted to: [persons convicted of armed robbery, carjacking, rape with force, murder, kidnapping, or conspiracy to commit those crimes while armed; persons who used a deadly weapon; persons who inflicted great bodily injury or torture; persons with two prior felony convictions; specified public official corruption; certain drug offenses; discharge of firearm from vehicle]

(f) When probation is granted in a case within subdivision (e), the court shall specify on the record and enter in the minutes the circumstances indicating that the interests of justice would best be served.

(k) Probation shall not be granted to any person convicted of a violent felony (§ 667.5(c)) or serious felony (§ 1192.7(c)) who was on probation for a felony offense at the time of the new felony offense.
