       (1) To his employer or to such trust, and
      (2) To the Franchise Tax Board (or to such person as
   the Franchise Tax Board may by regulations prescribe),
such information as the Franchise Tax Board shall by forms
or regulations prescribe.
   SEC. 22. The provisions of this act shall apply to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 1970.


                      CHAPTER 1608
An act to amend Sections 25, 25.6, and 196a of, to add Section
  195 to, and to add Part 5 (commencing with Section 4000)
  to Division 4 of, and to repeal Title 1 (commencing with
  Section 55) of Part 3 of Division 1 of, and to repeal Sec-
  tions 199 and 214 of, the Civil Code, and to amend Sections
  285.1, 395, 3961, 397, 426a, 426c, 1761, 1769, 1770,
  1771, and 1772 of, and to repeal Sections 125, 426o and
                        1969
Ch. 1608]                      REGULAR SESSION                    3313

  1019 of, the Code of Civil Procedure, and to amend Section
  26859 of the Government Code, and to amend Sections 10360,
  10361, 10362, 10363, 10364, 10366, 10368, 10369, and 10371
  of, and to repeal Sections 10365 and 10370 of, the Health
  and Safety Code, and to repeal Section 740.1 of the Wel-
  fare and Institutions Code, relating to domestic relations.
            [Approved by Governor September 4, 1969. Piled with
                   Secretary of State September 6, 1969.]

The people of the State of California do enact as follows:
   SECTION 1. Section 25 of the Civil Code is amended to
read:
   25. Minors are all persons under 21 years of age; provided,
that this section shall be subject to the provisions of the titles
of this code on marriage and shall not be construed as repeal-
ing or limiting the provisions of Section 204; provided further,
that any person who has reached the age of 18 years and
thereafter contracts a lawful marriage, or who has contracted
 a lawful marriage and thereafter reaches the age of 18
years, shall in the first instance upon contracting such mar-
riage, and in the second instance upon reaching the age of 18
years, be of the age of majority for all purposes of the Civil
Code, the Probate Code, and the Code of Civil Procedure and
for the purposes of all other codes be deemed an adult person
for the purposes of entering into any engagement or transac-
tion respecting property or his estate, or for the purpose of
entering into any contract, the same as if he were 21 years of
age. Subsequent judgment of dissolution or nullity of such
marriage shall not deprive such person of his adult status
once attained under the foregoing provision.
   SEC. 2. Section 25.6 of the Civil Code is amended to r e a d :
   25.6. Notwithstanding any other provision of the law, any
minor who has contracted a lawful marriage may give consent
to the furnishing of hospital, medical and surgical care to such
minor, and such consent shall not be subject to disaffirmance
because of minority. The consent of the parent, or parents, of
such a person shall not be necessary in order to authorize hos-
pital, medical and surgical care. For the purposes of this sec-
tion only, subsequent judgment of dissolution of marriage
shall not deprive such person of his adult status once attained.
   SEC. 3. Title 1 (commencing with Section 55) of P a r t 3
of Division 1 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 4. Section 195 is added to the Civil Code, to r e a d :
   195. The issue of a marriage which is void, invalid, ad-
judged a nullity, or dissolved by a judgment decreeing the
dissolution of the marriage is legitimate.
   SEC. 5. Section 196a of the Civil Code is amended to r e a d :
   196a. The father as well as the mother of an illegitimate
child must give him support and education suitable to his
circumstances. A civil suit to enforce such obligations may be
3314              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               [Ch. 1608

maintained in behalf of a minor illegitimate child by his
mother or guardian, or by a guardian ad litem appointed
upon the written application or with the consent of his mother;
provided, that such application or consent shall not be neces-
sary if the mother is dead or incompetent, and in such action
the court shall have power to order and enforce performance
thereof, the same as is the case with respect to legitimate
children, in a suit for dissolution of marriage by a wife.
   SEC. 6. Section 199 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 7. Section 214 of the Civil Code is repealed.
   SEC. 8. P a r t 5 (commencing with Section 4000) is added
to Division 4 of the Civil Code, to read:

            PART 5.     T H E FAMILY LAW ACT
                   TITLE 1.     MARRIAGE
                     CHAPTER 1.    GENERAL

  4000. This part shall be known and may be cited as "The
Family Law Act."
  4001. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Ju-
dicial Council may provide by rule for the practice and pro-
cedure in proceedings under this part.

        CHAPTER 2.    T H E SOLEMNIZATION OP MARRIAGE

               Article 1. Validity of Marriage
   4100. Marriage is a personal relation arising out of a civil
contract, to which the consent of the parties capable of making
that contract is necessary. Consent alone will not constitute
marriage; it must be followed by the issuance of a license and
solemnization as authorized by this code, except as provided
by Section 4213.
   4101. Any unmarried male of the age of 21 years or up-
wards, and any unmarried female of the age of 18 years or
upwards, and not otherwise disqualified, is capable of consent-
ing to and consummating marriage; provided, that any male
under the age of 21 years and over the age of 18 years and
any female under the age of 18 years and over the age of 16
years, with the consent in writing of the parents of the person
under age, or one of such parents, or of his or her guardian,
or order of the superior court as provided for in Section
4102, where such written consent or order is filed by the clerk
issuing the marriage license, as provided in Section 4201,
is capable of consenting to and consummating marriage; pro-
vided, further, that any male under the age of 18 years and
any female under the age of 16 years, with the consent in writ-
ing of the parents of the person under age, or one of such
parents, or of his or her guardian, where such written consent
is filed with the clerk issuing the marriage license, as provided
in Section 4201 and where, after such showing as the su-
                    1969
Ch. 1608]                  REGULAR SESSION                3315

perior court may require an order of said superior court is
made, granting permission to said person to marry, is capable
of consenting to and consummating marriage; provided, fur-
ther, that any male under the age of 18 years and any female
under the age of 16 years, by order of the superior court as
provided for in Section 4102, when such court order is filed
with the clerk issuing the marriage license, as provided in
Section 4201, is capable of consenting to and consummating
marriage.
  4102. Whenever it appears to the satisfaction of the su-
perior court by verified application of a minor that such per-
son requires a written consent to marry and that such minor
has no parent or has no parent capable of consenting, the
superior court may make an order consenting to the issuance
of a marriage license and granting permission to such minor
to marry. Such order shall be filed with the county clerk at
the time the license is issued.
  4103. Consent to marriage and solemnization thereof may
be proved under the same general rules of evidence as facts
are proved in other cases.
  4104. All marriages contracted without this state, which,
would be valid by the laws of the jurisdiction in which the
same were contracted, are valid in this state.

            Article 2. Authentication of Marriage
   4200. Marriage must be licensed, solemnized, authenticated,
and the certificate of registry of marriage filed as provided
in this article; but noncompliance with its provisions by others
than a party to a marriage does not invalidate it.
   4201. All persons about to be joined in marriage must first
obtain a license therefor, from a county clerk, which license
must show all of the following:
   (1) The identity of the parties.
   (2) Their real and full names, and places of residence.
   (3) Their ages.
   No license shall be granted when either of the parties, a p -
plicants therefor, is an imbecile, or insane, or is at the time
of making the application for the license, under the influ-
ence of any intoxicating liquor, or narcotic drug. If the male
is under the age of 21 years, or the female is under the age
of 18 years, and such person has not been previously married
as provided in Section 25, no license may be issued by t h e
county clerk unless both parties are capable of consenting to
and consummating marriage as provided for in Section 4101
and such consent or consents or court orders, provided for i n
Section 4102, must be filed by the clerk. Each applicant m a y
be required to present authentic identification as to name.
For the purpose of ascertaining all the facts mentioned or
required in this section, the clerk, at the time the license is
applied for may, if he deems it necessary in order to satisfy
 3316              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ J608

  himself as to matters enumerated in this section, examine the
  applicants for a license on oath, which examination shall be
  reduced to writing by the clerk, and subscribed by them; or,
  if necessary, the clerk may request additional documentary
  proof as to the accuracy of the facts stated. Applicants for a
  license pursuant to this section shall not be required to state,
  for any purpose, their race or color.
     The forms for the application for license to marry and the
  marriage license shall be prescribed by the State Department
  of Public Health, and shall be adapted to set forth the facts
  required in this section.
     4202. All persons about to be joined in marriage must ob-
  tain from the county clerk of the county in which the license
  is issued, in addition to the license therefor provided for in
  Section 4201, a certificate of registry of marriage as pro-
  vided in Division 9 (commencing with Section 10000) of the
  Health and Safety Code containing the items therein listed
  which certificate of registry of marriage shall be filled out as
  provided, in the presence of the county clerk issuing the mar-
  riage license and shall then be presented to the person per-
  forming the ceremony who shall complete the certificate
  thereon and shall cause to be entered thereon the signature
  and address of one witness to the marriage ceremony. Such
  certificate of registry of marriage shall be filed by the person
 performing the ceremony with the county recorder of the
 county in which the license was issued within four days after
 the ceremony.
     4203. Upon the loss or destruction of a certificate of regis-
 try of marriage subsequent to the marriage ceremony but be-
 fore filing with the county recorder in order to comply with
 Section 4202, the person solemnizing the marriage shall obtain
 a duplicate certificate of registry of marriage by filing an
 affidavit setting forth the facts with the county clerk of the
 county in which the license was issued.
    The fee for issuing such duplicate license and certificate
 is two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50).
    4204. A license issued pursuant to Section 4201 shall
expire 90 days after its issuance and the calendar date of expi-
ration shall be clearly noted on the face of each such license.
    The county clerk shall number each license issued, and shall
transmit at periodic intervals to the county recorder a list of
the licenses issued. Not later than 60 days after the date of is-
suance the county recorder shall notify those parties whose
certificates have not been filed of that fact and that the license
will automatically expire on the date shown on the face of the
license. The county recorder shall also notify the licensehold-
ers of the obligation of the person marrying them to return
the certificate of registry and endorsed license to the record-
er's office within four days after the ceremony.
    4205. Marriage may be solemnized by any judge of a court
of record or justice court in this state or by any priest, minis-
                     1969
Ch. 16081                   REGULAR SESSION                   3317

ter or rabbi of any religious denomination, of the age of 21
years or over.
    4206. No particular form for the ceremony of marriage is
required, but the parties must declare, in the presence of the
person solemnizing the marriage, that they take each other as
husband and wife.
    4207. The person solemnizing a marriage must first require
the presentation of the marriage license; and if he has any
reason to doubt the correctness of its statement of facts, he
must first satisfy himself of its correctness, and for that pur-
pose he may administer oaths and examine the parties and
witnesses in like manner as the county clerk does before issu-
ing the license.
    4208. The person solemnizing a marriage must make, sign
and endorse upon or attach to the license a statement, in the
form prescribed by the State Department of Public Health
showing all of the following:
     (1) The fact, time and place of solemnization.
     (2) The names and places of residence of one or more wit-
nesses to the ceremony.
     (3) A statement of the official position of the person sol-
emnizing the marriage, or of the denomination of which
such person is a priest, minister or clergyman. The person sol-
emnizing the marriage shall also type or print his name and
address.
    The marriage license, thus endorsed, shall be returned to
the county recorder of the county in which the license was
issued within four days after the ceremony.
    4209. The person solemnizing a marriage must, at the re-
 quest of, and for either party, issue a marriage certificate
 showing the facts specified in Section 4208.
    4210. If no record of the solemnization of a marriage here-
 tofore contracted, be known to exist, the parties may join in a
 written declaration of such marriage, substantially showing
 all of the following:
     (1) The names, ages, and residences of the parties.
     (2) The fact of marriage.
     (3) That no record of such marriage is known to exist.
     Such declaration shall be subscribed by the parties and at-
 tested by at least three witnesses.
     4211. Declarations of marriage must be acknowledged and
 recorded in like manner as grants of real property.
     4212. If either party to any marriage denies the same, or
  refuses to join in a declaration thereof, the other may proceed,
  by action in the superior court, to have the validity of the
 marriage determined and declared.
     If the female party to any marriage, who has reached the
  age of 18 years, desires to have the validity of such mar-
  riage established in order to establish the fact or time, or both,
  of her attaining majority, she may proceed, by action in the
  superior court, brought against the husband, to have the va-
3318              STATUTES OF CALIFORNIA               TQ^ J 6 0 8

iidity of the marriage determined and declared and the fact
or «time, or both, of her attaining majority established and de-
clared ; and even though she be under the age of 21 years, such
action may be commenced and prosecuted by her in her own
name and right, and need not be brought or prosecuted in her
behalf by general guardian or by a guardian ad litem; but if
she has a general guardian of her estate he shall, unless he
prosecutes the action on her behalf, be joined as a defendant
together with the husband, in which latter event no judgment
shall be made in such action until such general guardian of
the estate has either appeared in the action, or defaulted after
due service of summons on him; and provided further, that if
the petitioner in such action has no general guardian of her
estate the court may, in its discretion require the appoint-
ment of a guardian ad litem to prosecute the action on her
behalf and to safeguard her interests in the action.
   4213. When unmarried persons, not minors, have been
living together as man and wife, they may, without a license,
be married by any clergyman. A certificate of such marriage
shall be made by the clergyman, delivered to the parties,
and recorded upon the records of the church of which the
clergyman is a representative. No other record need be made.
   4214. All marriages that have heretofore been, or that may
hereafter be consummated under the provisions of Section
4213 are hereby declared to be valid.
   4215. The provisions of this article, so far as they relate
to the solemnizing of marriages, are not applicable to members
of any particular religious denomination having, as such, any
peculiar mode of entering the marriage relation; but such mar-
riages must be declared, as provided in Section 4210, and
be acknowledged and recorded, as provided in Section 4211.
Where a marriage is declared as provided in Section 4210
the husband must file said declaration with the county re-
corder within 30 days after such marriage, and upon receiving
the same the county recorder must record the same; and if the
husband fails to make such declaration and file the same for
record, as herein provided, he is liable to the same penalties
as any person authorized to solemnize marriages, who fails to
make the return of such solemnization as provided by law.

             Article 3. Premarital Examination
  4300. Before any person, who is or may hereafter be au-
thorized by law to issue marriage licenses, shall issue any
such license, each applicant therefor shall file with him a
certificate from a duly licensed physician which certificate
shall state that the applicant has been given such examination,
including a standard serological test, as may be necessary for
