California Probate Code § 1851 — Court Investigator Review of Existing Conservatorship

(a)(1) If court review is required pursuant to Section 1850 or 1850.5, the court investigator shall, WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE TO THE CONSERVATOR except as ordered by the court for necessity or to prevent harm to the conservatee, visit the conservatee. The court investigator shall INFORM THE CONSERVATEE PERSONALLY that the conservatee is under a conservatorship and shall give the name of the conservator to the conservatee.

The court investigator shall determine all of the following:

(A) If the conservatee wishes the court to TERMINATE the conservatorship.
(B) If the conservatee wishes the court to REMOVE the conservator and appoint a successor.
(C) If BOTH of the following are true:
  (i) The conservatee still meets the criteria for appointment under §1801(a) or (b).
  (ii) The conservatorship remains the LEAST RESTRICTIVE ALTERNATIVE needed for the protection of the conservatee, as required by §1800.3(b).
(D) If the conservator is ACTING IN THE BEST INTERESTS of the conservatee. The evaluation shall include examination of: placement, quality of care (including physical and mental health treatment), and finances. To the extent practicable, the investigator shall review the accounting with a conservatee who has sufficient capacity. The investigator shall interview individuals set forth in §1826(a)(1).
(E) If the conservatee is incapable of communicating a desire to participate in voting.

(2) If the conservatee still meets criteria, the investigator shall determine if the appointment order should be modified to REDUCE OR EXPAND powers and duties to ensure least restrictive alternative.

(3) Upon request, the conservator shall make available to the court investigator ALL BOOKS AND RECORDS, including receipts and expenditures.

(b) Findings shall be certified in writing to the court not less than 15 days before review. Copies delivered to the conservatee, conservator, and attorneys of record. CLETS information in separate confidential attachment.

(c) For limited conservatees, the investigator shall recommend whether to continue, modify, or terminate.

(e) The report is CONFIDENTIAL — available only to parties, persons given notice, their attorneys, and the court.

[Source: leginfo.legislature.ca.gov via VernenLegal MCP tool, fetched 2026-04-09]
