45 CFR § 164.502 — Uses and Disclosures of Protected Health Information: General Rules

(a) Standard. A covered entity or business associate may not use or disclose protected health information, except as permitted or required by this subpart or by subpart C of part 160 of this subchapter.

(1) Permitted uses and disclosures. A covered entity or business associate is permitted to use or disclose protected health information as follows:
(i) To the individual;
(ii) For treatment, payment, or health care operations, as permitted by and in compliance with § 164.506;
(iii) Incident to a use or disclosure otherwise permitted or required as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(iv) Except for uses and disclosures prohibited under § 164.502(a)(5)(i), pursuant to and in compliance with a valid authorization under § 164.508;
(v) Pursuant to an agreement under, or as otherwise permitted by, § 164.510; and
(vi) As permitted by and in compliance with this section, § 164.512, § 164.514(e), (f), or (g).

(2) Required disclosures. A covered entity is required to disclose protected health information:
(i) To an individual, when requested under § 164.524 or § 164.528; and
(ii) When required by the Secretary under subpart C of part 160 of this subchapter to investigate or determine the covered entity's compliance with this subchapter.

(b) Standard: Minimum necessary.
(1) Minimum necessary applies. When using or disclosing protected health information or when requesting protected health information from another covered entity or business associate, a covered entity or business associate must make reasonable efforts to limit protected health information to the minimum necessary to accomplish the intended purpose of the use, disclosure, or request.

(2) Minimum necessary does not apply. This requirement does not apply to:
(i) Disclosures to or requests by a health care provider for treatment purposes;
(ii) Uses or disclosures made to the individual as permitted under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section or as required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(iii) Uses or disclosures made pursuant to an authorization under § 164.508, if the authorization specifically permits the requested use or disclosure;
(iv) Disclosures made to the Secretary in accordance with subpart C of part 160 of this subchapter;
(v) Uses or disclosures that are required by law as described by § 164.512(a); and
(vi) Uses or disclosures that are required for compliance with applicable requirements of this subchapter.

(d) Standard: Uses and disclosures of protected health information subject to an agreed upon restriction. A covered entity that has agreed to a restriction pursuant to § 164.522(a)(1) may not use or disclose the protected health information covered by the restriction in violation of such restriction, except as otherwise provided in § 164.522(a).

(e) Standard: Disclosures to business associates.
(1) A covered entity may disclose protected health information to a business associate and may allow a business associate to create, receive, maintain, or transmit protected health information on its behalf, if the covered entity obtains satisfactory assurance, in accordance with § 164.504(e), that the business associate will appropriately safeguard the information.

(f) Standard: Deceased individuals. A covered entity must comply with the requirements of this subpart with respect to the protected health information of a deceased individual.

(g)(1) Standard: Personal representatives. As specified in this paragraph, a covered entity must, except as provided in paragraphs (g)(3) and (g)(5) of this section, treat a personal representative the same as the individual, with respect to uses and disclosures of the individual's protected health information, as well as the individual's rights under this subpart.

(i) Patient's authorization as default. Except as otherwise permitted or required by this subchapter, a covered entity may not use or disclose protected health information without an authorization that is valid under § 164.508.

---
SOURCE: 45 CFR § 164.502 (HIPAA Privacy Rule). Current text as of 2023 amendments implementing 42nd Congress provisions. Full text available at ecfr.gov Title 45, Part 164, Subpart E. NOTE: This is a representative extract of the operative provisions most relevant to unauthorized disclosure and minimum necessary analysis. Practitioners should verify full current text at eCFR.
