CIV Code § 1798

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Information Practices Act of 1977.

---

CIV Code § 1798.45

An individual may bring a civil action against an agency whenever such agency does any of the following:

(a) Refuses to comply with an individual's lawful request to inspect pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 1798.34.

(b) Fails to maintain any record concerning any individual with such accuracy, relevancy, timeliness, and completeness as is necessary to assure fairness in any determination relating to the qualifications, character, rights, opportunities of, or benefits to the individual that may be made on the basis of such record, if, as a proximate result of such failure, a determination is made which is adverse to the individual.

(c) Fails to comply with any other provision of this chapter, or any rule promulgated thereunder, in such a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual.

---

CIV Code § 1798.53

Any person, other than an employee of the state or of a local government agency acting solely in his or her official capacity, who intentionally discloses information, not otherwise public, which they know or should reasonably know was obtained from personal information maintained by a state agency or from "records" within a "system of records" (as these terms are defined in the Federal Privacy Act of 1974 (P. L. 93-579; 5 U.S.C. 552a)) maintained by a federal government agency, shall be subject to a civil action, for invasion of privacy, by the individual to whom the information pertains. In any successful action brought under this section, the complainant, in addition to any special or general damages awarded, shall be awarded a minimum of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) in exemplary damages as well as attorney's fees and other litigation costs reasonably incurred in the suit. The right, remedy, and cause of action set forth in this section shall be nonexclusive and is in addition to all other rights, remedies, and causes of action for invasion of privacy, inherent in Section 1 of Article I of the California Constitution.

---
SOURCE: California Legislative Information — leginfo.legislature.ca.gov
URLs:
  §1798: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displaySection.xhtml?sectionNum=1798.&lawCode=CIV
  §1798.45: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displaySection.xhtml?sectionNum=1798.45.&lawCode=CIV
  §1798.53: https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displaySection.xhtml?sectionNum=1798.53.&lawCode=CIV
FETCHED: 2026-04-11
