California Civil Code § 51.7 — Ralph Civil Rights Act of 1976

(a) This section shall be known, and may be cited, as the Ralph Civil Rights Act of 1976.

(b) (1) All persons within the jurisdiction of this state have the right to be free from any violence, or intimidation by threat of violence, committed against their persons or property because of political affiliation, or on account of any characteristic listed or defined in subdivision (b) or (e) of Section 51, or position in a labor dispute, or because another person perceives them to have one or more of those characteristics. The identification in this subdivision of particular bases of discrimination is illustrative rather than restrictive.

(2) For purposes of this subdivision, "intimidation by threat of violence" includes, but is not limited to, making or threatening to make a claim or report to a peace officer or law enforcement agency that falsely alleges that another person has engaged in unlawful activity or in an activity that requires law enforcement intervention, knowing that the claim or report is false, or with reckless disregard for the truth or falsity of the claim or report.

(3) For purposes of this subdivision, "intimidation by threat of violence" includes, but is not limited to, terrorizing the owner or occupant of private property with the distribution of materials on the private property, without authorization, with the purpose of terrorizing the owner or occupant of that private property.

(4) For purposes of this subdivision, "terrorize" means to cause a person of ordinary emotions and sensibilities to fear for personal safety.

(c) (1) A person shall not require another person to waive any legal right, penalty, remedy, forum, or procedure for a violation of this section, as a condition of entering into a contract for goods or services, including the right to file and pursue a civil action or complaint with, or otherwise notify, the Attorney General or any other public prosecutor, or law enforcement agency, the Civil Rights Department, or any court or other governmental entity.

(2)-(8) [Anti-waiver provisions — person shall not refuse to contract based on refusal to waive rights; any waiver must be knowing and voluntary; forced waivers are unenforceable; burden of proof on party seeking to enforce waiver; applies to agreements entered into on or after January 1, 2015.]

(d) This section does not apply to statements concerning positions in a labor dispute that are made during otherwise lawful labor picketing.

(e) (1) Speech alone shall not support an action brought pursuant to this section, except upon a showing of all of the following:
(A) The speech itself threatens violence against a specific person or group of persons.
(B) The person or group of persons against whom the threat is directed reasonably fears that, because of the speech, violence will be committed against them or their property.
(C) The person threatening violence is acting in reckless disregard for the threatening nature of their speech.
(D) The person threatening violence has the apparent ability to carry out the threat.

(f) The Legislature finds and declares that this section was enacted as part of the Ralph Civil Rights Act of 1976, in Chapter 1293 of the Statutes of 1976.

(g) This section does not negate or otherwise abrogate the provisions of Sections 1668, 1953, and 3513.

[Source: leginfo.legislature.ca.gov via VernenLegal MCP tool, fetched 2026-04-09]
