California Probate Code § 1826 — Court Investigator Duties (Conservatorship Petition)

(a) Regardless of whether the proposed conservatee attends the hearing, the court investigator shall do all of the following:

(1) Conduct the following interviews:
  (A) The proposed conservatee personally.
  (B) All petitioners and all proposed conservators who are not petitioners.
  (C) The proposed conservatee's spouse or registered domestic partner and relatives within the first degree. If the proposed conservatee does not have such relatives, to the greatest extent possible, relatives within the second degree.
  (D) To the greatest extent practical, the proposed conservatee's relatives within the second degree not required above, neighbors, and if known, close friends.

(2) Inform the proposed conservatee of: the contents of the petition and citation; the nature, purpose, and effect of the proceeding; the right to oppose the petition; the right to attend the hearing; the right to jury trial; the right to legal counsel; the right to court-appointed counsel.

(3) Determine if the proposed conservatee is unable to attend the hearing and, if able, whether willing to attend.

(4) Review the allegations of the petition as to why appointment is required:
  (A) Refer to the supplemental information form and consider facts addressing each category specified in §1821(a)(1)(A)-(E), as well as medical reports received pursuant to paragraph (9).
  (B) Determine whether the proposed conservatee suffers from mental function deficits listed in §811(a) that significantly impair the proposed conservatee's ability to understand and appreciate consequences of actions in connection with functions described in §1801(a) or (b).

(5) Determine if the proposed conservatee wishes to oppose the conservatorship.
(6) Determine if the proposed conservatee objects to the proposed conservator or prefers another person.
(7) Determine if the proposed conservatee wishes to be represented by legal counsel.
(8) Determine if the proposed conservatee is incapable of communicating a desire to participate in the voting process (Elections Code §2208).
(9) Gather and review relevant medical reports from the proposed conservatee's primary care physician and other health care providers.
(10) Report to the court in writing, at least five days before the hearing, concerning all of the foregoing.
(11) Deliver the report at least five days before the hearing to: petitioner's attorney, proposed conservatee's attorney, proposed conservatee, and specified relatives.

(b) The court investigator has discretion to release the report to the public conservator, interested public agencies, and the long-term care ombudsperson.

(c) The report is confidential. Confidential medical information and CLETS information shall be in a separate attachment available only to the proposed conservatee and their attorney.

(d)-(h) [Exceptions for self-petitioners, prior investigations, temporary conservatorships, Judicial Council forms, and appropriations requirements.]

[Source: leginfo.legislature.ca.gov via VernenLegal MCP tool, fetched 2026-04-09]
