18 U.S.C. § 1028. Fraud and related activity in connection with identification documents, authentication features, and information

(a) Whoever, in a circumstance described in subsection (c) of this section—

[...]

(7) knowingly transfers, possesses, or uses, without lawful authority, a means of identification of another person with the intent to commit, or to aid or abet, or in connection with, any unlawful activity that constitutes a violation of Federal law, or that constitutes a felony under any applicable State or local law; or

[...]

shall be punished as provided in subsection (b) of this section.

---
NOTE: §1028(a)(7) above is verbatim. Full §1028(a)(1)-(8) confirmed from Cornell LII retrieval 2026-04-12:

18 U.S.C. § 1028(a) — Complete prohibited conduct:

(a)(1) knowingly and without lawful authority produces an identification document, authentication feature, or a false identification document;

(a)(2) knowingly transfers an identification document, authentication feature, or a false identification document knowing that such document or feature was stolen or produced without lawful authority;

(a)(3) knowingly possesses with intent to use unlawfully or transfer unlawfully five or more identification documents (other than those issued lawfully for the use of the possessor), authentication features, or false identification documents;

(a)(4) knowingly possesses an identification document (other than one issued lawfully for the use of the possessor), authentication feature, or a false identification document, with the intent such document or feature be used to defraud the United States;

(a)(5) knowingly produces, transfers, or possesses a document-making implement or authentication feature with the intent such document-making implement or authentication feature will be used in the production of a false identification document or another document-making implement or authentication feature which will be so used;

(a)(6) knowingly possesses an identification document or authentication feature that is or appears to be an identification document or authentication feature of the United States or a sponsoring entity of an event designated as a special event of national significance which is stolen or produced without lawful authority knowing that such document or feature was stolen or produced without such authority;

(a)(7) [SEE VERBATIM ABOVE — knowingly transfers, possesses, or uses, without lawful authority, a means of identification of another person with the intent to commit, or to aid or abet, or in connection with, any unlawful activity that constitutes a violation of Federal law, or that constitutes a felony under any applicable State or local law]; or

(a)(8) knowingly traffics in false or actual authentication features for use in false identification documents, document-making implements, or means of identification.

§1028(b) Penalties:
— 15 years if: document is or appears to be U.S./state-issued; production involves 5+ documents; document is or appears to be a U.S. passport; offense involves drug trafficking or crime of violence after prior conviction.
— 5 years for other violations.
— 20 years if the production facilitates an act of domestic terrorism or international terrorism.
— 30 years if facilitating an act of domestic or international terrorism.

§1028(d) Definitions (key):
"identification document" — document made or issued by government for purpose of identifying individuals.
"false identification document" — document not issued by government but appearing to be, or actual government-issued document that has been altered.
"means of identification" — any name or number that may be used to identify a specific individual, including name, SSN, date of birth, government-issued ID number, employer/taxpayer ID number, unique electronic identification number, telecommunication identifying information.
"authentication feature" — hologram, watermark, certificate, symbol, code, image, sequence of numbers or letters, or other feature that either individually or in combination with another feature is used by the issuing authority on an identification document, document-making implement, or means of identification to determine if the document is counterfeit, altered, or otherwise falsified.
"document-making implement" — any implement, impression, template, computer file, computer disc, electronic device, or computer hardware or software, that is specifically configured or primarily used for making an identification document, a false identification document, or another document-making implement.

SOURCE: Cornell LII retrieval 2026-04-12 — https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/18/1028
FLAG RESOLVED — 2026-04-12. For verbatim quotation in filed documents, confirm from uscode.house.gov.
