CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE — CONSUMERS LEGAL REMEDIES ACT
Part 4. Obligations Arising from Particular Transactions
Title 1.5. Consumers Legal Remedies Act

§1750. SHORT TITLE
This title may be cited as the "Consumers Legal Remedies Act."

§1751. WAIVER VOID AND UNENFORCEABLE
Any waiver by a consumer of the provisions of this title is contrary to public policy and shall be unenforceable and void.

§1752. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS
The provisions of this title are not exclusive. The remedies provided herein shall be in addition to any other procedures or remedies for any violation or conduct provided for in any other law.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall recover damages under this title and under any other law for the same act or transaction.

§1760. LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION
This title shall be liberally construed and applied to promote its underlying purposes, which are to protect consumers against unfair and deceptive business practices and to provide efficient and economical procedures to secure such protection.

§1761. DEFINITIONS
As used in this title:
(a) "Goods" means tangible chattels bought or leased for use primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, including certificates or coupons exchangeable for these goods, and including goods that, at the time of the sale or subsequently, are to be so affixed to real property as to become a part of real property, whether or not severable from the real property.
(b) "Services" means work, labor, and services for other than a commercial or business use, including services furnished in connection with the sale or repair of goods.
(c) "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, or other group, however organized.
(d) "Consumer" means an individual who seeks or acquires, by purchase or lease, any goods or services for personal, family, or household purposes. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the term "consumer" shall include a child of a senior citizen or disabled person where the child has been injured in any of the ways specified in this title, and a guardian or other legal representative who is authorized to act on behalf of a child, senior citizen, or disabled person.
(e) "Senior citizen" means a person who is 65 years of age or older.
(f) "Disabled person" means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(g) "Transaction" means an agreement between a consumer and another person, whether or not the agreement is a contract enforceable by action, and includes the making of, and the performance pursuant to, that agreement.

§1770. METHODS OF COMPETITION AND DECEPTIVE PRACTICES
(a) The following unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by any person in a transaction intended to result or that results in the sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer are unlawful:
(1) Passing off goods or services as those of another.
(2) Misrepresenting the source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of goods or services.
(3) Misrepresenting the affiliation, connection, or association with, or certification by, another.
(4) Using deceptive representations or designations of geographic origin in connection with goods or services.
(5) Representing that goods or services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits, or quantities that they do not have or that a person has a sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or connection that the person does not have.
(6) Representing that goods are original or new if they have deteriorated unreasonably or are altered, reconditioned, reclaimed, used, or secondhand.
(7) Representing that goods or services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of a particular style or model, if they are of another.
(8) Disparaging the goods, services, or business of another by false or misleading representation of fact.
(9) Advertising goods or services with intent not to sell them as advertised.
(10) Advertising goods or services with intent not to supply reasonably expectable demand, unless the advertisement discloses a limitation of quantity.
(11) Advertising furniture without clearly indicating that it is unassembled if that is the case.
(12) Advertising the price of unassembled furniture without clearly indicating the assembled price of that furniture if the same furniture is available assembled from the seller.
(13) Making false or misleading statements of fact concerning reasons for, existence of, or amounts of, price reductions.
(14) Representing that a transaction confers or involves rights, remedies, or obligations that it does not have or involve, or that are prohibited by law.
(15) Representing that a part, replacement, or repair service is needed when it is not.
(16) Representing that the subject of a transaction has been supplied in accordance with a previous representation when it has not.
(17) Representing that the consumer will receive a rebate, discount, or other economic benefit, if the earning of the benefit is contingent on an event to occur subsequent to the consummation of the transaction.
(18) Misrepresenting the authority of a salesperson, representative, or agent to negotiate the final terms of a transaction with a consumer.
(19) Inserting an unconscionable provision in the contract.
(20) Advertising that a product is being offered at a specific price plus a specific percentage of that price unless (A) the total price is set forth in the advertisement, which may include, but is not limited to, shelf tags, displays, and media advertising, in a size larger than any other price in that advertisement, and (B) the specific price plus a specific percentage of that price represents a markup from the seller's costs or from the wholesale price of the product.
(21) Selling or leasing goods in violation of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 1797.8) of Title 1.7.
(22)(A) Disseminating an unsolicited prerecorded message by telephone without an unrecorded, natural voice first informing the person answering the telephone of the name of the caller or the organization being represented, and either the address or the telephone number of the caller, and without obtaining the consent of that person to listen to the prerecorded message.
(B) This subdivision does not apply to a message disseminated to a business associate, customer, or other person having an established relationship with the person or organization making the call, to a call for the purpose of collecting an existing obligation, or to any call generated at the request of the recipient.
(23) The home solicitation, as defined in subdivision (h) of Section 1761, of a consumer who is a senior citizen where a loan is made encumbering the primary residence of that consumer for the purposes of paying for home improvements and where the transaction is part of a pattern or practice in violation of either subsection (h) or (i) of Section 1639 of Title 15 of the United States Code or subsection (e) of Section 226.32 of Title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(24) (A) Charging or receiving an unreasonable fee to prepare, aid, or advise a prospective applicant, applicant, or recipient in the procurement, maintenance, or securing of public social services, as defined in Section 10051 of the Welfare and Institutions Code.
(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: …
(25) The sale or lease of a new or used motor vehicle, as defined in Section 426 of the Vehicle Code, without an agreement in writing between the buyer and the dealer, manufacturer, or other seller.
[Subsections (26)–(29) continue; full text at https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov]

§1780. ACTIONS BY CONSUMERS; REMEDIES
(a) Any consumer who suffers any damage as a result of the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or practice declared to be unlawful by Section 1770 may bring an action against that person to recover or obtain any of the following:
(1) Actual damages, but in no case shall the total award of damages in a class action be less than one thousand dollars ($1,000).
(2) An order enjoining the methods, acts, or practices.
(3) Restitution of property.
(4) Punitive damages.
(5) Any other relief that the court deems proper.
(b) Any consumer who is a senior citizen or a disabled person, as defined in subdivisions (e) and (f) of Section 1761, as part of an action under subdivision (a), may seek and be awarded, in addition to the remedies specified therein, up to five thousand dollars ($5,000) where the trier of fact (1) finds that the consumer has suffered substantial physical, emotional, or economic damage resulting from the defendant's conduct, (2) makes an affirmative finding in regard to one or more of the factors set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3345, and (3) finds that an additional award is appropriate.
(c) …
(d) …
(e) The court shall award court costs and attorney's fees to a prevailing plaintiff in litigation filed pursuant to this section. Reasonable attorney's fees may be awarded to a prevailing defendant upon a finding by the court that the plaintiff's prosecution of the action was not in good faith.

§1781. CLASS ACTIONS
(a) Any consumer entitled to bring an action under Section 1780 may, if the unlawful method, act, or practice has caused damage to other consumers similarly situated, bring an action on behalf of himself or herself and such other consumers to recover damages or obtain other relief as provided for in Section 1780.
(b) …
[Subsections (c)–(e) continue; see leginfo.legislature.ca.gov]

§1782. NOTICE REQUIREMENT; CURE
(a) Thirty days or more prior to the commencement of an action for damages pursuant to this title, the consumer shall do the following:
(1) Notify the person alleged to have employed or committed methods, acts, or practices declared unlawful by Section 1770 of the particular alleged violations of Section 1770.
(2) Demand that the person correct, repair, replace, or otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to be in violation of Section 1770.
The notice shall be in writing and shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the place where the transaction occurred or to the person's principal place of business within California.
(b) Except as provided in subdivision (c), no action for damages may be maintained under Section 1780 if an appropriate correction, repair, replacement, or other remedy is given, or agreed to be given within a reasonable time, to the consumer within 30 days after receipt of the notice.
(c) No notice shall be required prior to the commencement of an action for injunctive relief.
(d) An action for injunctive relief brought under the specific provisions of Section 1770 may be commenced without compliance with subdivision (a). Not less than 30 days after the commencement of an action for injunctive relief, and after compliance with subdivision (a), the consumer may amend his or her complaint without leave of court to include a request for damages. The appropriate provisions of subdivision (b) shall be applicable if the complaint for injunctive relief is amended to request damages.
(e) …
(f) …

§1783. LIMITATION OF ACTIONS
Any action brought under the specific provisions of Section 1770 shall be commenced not more than three years from the date of the commission of such method, act, or practice.

§1784. INNOCENT AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE
No award of damages may be given in any action based on a method, act, or practice declared to be unlawful by Section 1770 if the person alleged to have employed or committed the method, act, or practice shows that all of the following exist:
(a) It was not intentional and resulted from a bona fide error notwithstanding the use of reasonable procedures adopted to avoid any such error.
(b) An appropriate correction, repair, replacement, or other remedy was given, or was offered if refused, to the consumer within 30 days after receipt of the notice required under Section 1782.

[END OF CAPTURED TEXT — full current text at https://leginfo.legislature.ca.gov/faces/codes_displayText.xhtml?division=3.&chapter=&lawCode=CIV&title=1.5.&part=4.]
